106 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Corporate information Melrose Industries PLC the Company is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on the back cover.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the Divisional review section on pages 22 to 31.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised in accordance with a resolution of the Directors of Melrose Industries PLC on 20 February 2018.
These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling which is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company is based.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2.
On 31 August 2016 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital and obtained control of Nortek Inc. Nortek for cash consideration of 1,093.1 million note 11.
In the year to 31 December 2016, the results of Nortek are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the four month period from the date of acquisition.
The Balance Sheet at 31 December 2016, shown in these consolidated financial statements, has been restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11.
On 10 August 2017 the disposal of the Best EMEA operations, previously reported within the Air Management segment, to Electrolux A. G. was completed.
The assets and liabilities related to these operations were classified as held for sale as at 30 June 2017.
1.1 New Standards and Interpretations affecting amounts, presentation or disclosure reported in the current year In the current financial year, the Group has adopted a number of new or revised Standards and Interpretations, none of which significantly affected the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Details of the Standards and Interpretations that were adopted are set out in section 1.2.
1.2 New Standards and Interpretations adopted with no significant effect on financial statements The following new and revised Standards and Interpretations have been adopted in the current year.
Their adoption has not had any significant impact on the amounts reported in these financial statements, but may impact the accounting for future transactions and arrangements: Annual improvements to IFRSs: 2014-16 cycle Amendments to IAS 7: Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 12: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 1.3 New Standards and Interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations are in issue but not yet effective and in some cases have not been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers and related clarifications IFRS 16: Leases Amendments to IFRS 2: Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions Amendments to IFRS 9: Prepayment features with negative compensation Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture Amendments to IAS 28: Long-term interests in associates and joint ventures IFRIC 22: Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 23: Uncertainty over income tax treatments The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except that IFRS 16 will impact the recognition of leases.
A detailed review of the impact of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 has been completed and it is not anticipated that the application of either standard will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January 2018.
It includes amendments to classification and measurement of financial instruments, which include providing a new model for expected future credit losses and impairment.
The Group does not expect that the adoption of IFRS 9 will have a material impact on the financial statements but it will impact both the measurement and disclosure of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 does not require restatement of prior periods and therefore any difference between the new carrying amount under IFRS 9 and the previous carrying amount on the date of initial application will be recognised as a change to equity.
IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018.
It provides a single, principles-based, five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts, based on the transfer of control of goods and services to customers.
It replaces the separate model for goods and services of IAS 18 Revenue.
The Directors do not consider the impact of IFRS 15 to be significant on the sale of goods where revenue is currently recognised on either dispatch or delivery dependent on the specific circumstances.
The supply of goods and services under more complicated contractual arrangements will involve the application of judgement when recognising revenue, however, the year-on-year impact on profit is not considered to be significant and therefore the adoption of this standard is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
IFRS 15 will be adopted via the cumulative effect method, therefore comparative information will not be restated.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 107 1.
Corporate information continued IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
It will require all leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet.
Currently, IAS 17: Leases only requires those categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the Balance Sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised and expensed through the Income Statement instead.
The impact of IFRS 16 will be to recognise a lease liability and a corresponding asset in the Balance Sheet for leases currently classified as operating leases.
The Directors are continuing to evaluate the full impact of the adoption of this standard and it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of IFRS 16 until a detailed review has been completed, which is planned to be undertaken in the next 12 months.
IFRS 16 will be adopted via a modified retrospective approach and it is anticipated that right of use assets recognised on transition will be measured at an amount equal to the lease liability.
Summary of significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
The consolidated financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial instruments which are recognised at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted are consistent with the prior year and are set out below.
Alternative Performance Measures The Group presents Alternative Performance Measures APMs in addition to the unadjusted statutory results of the Group.
These are presented in accordance with the Guidelines on APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA.
To provide more clarity and in response to increased guidance, the APMs used by the Group are set out in the glossary to these Financial Statements on pages 152 to 155 and the reconciling items between statutory and underlying results are listed below and described in more detail in note 6 to the financial statements.
Underlying profit loss excludes items which are significant in size or volatility or by nature are non-trading or non-recurring, and excludes any item released to the Income Statement that was previously a fair value item booked on acquisition.
On this basis, the following items were included within adjusted items for the year ended 31 December 2017: Impairment charges that are considered to be significant in nature and or value to the trading performance of the business.
Amortisation of intangible assets that are acquired in a business combination.
Significant restructuring costs and other associated costs arising from significant strategy changes that are not considered by the Group to be part of the normal operating costs of the business.
The charge for the equity-settled Melrose Incentive Plan, including its associated employers tax charge.
The release of fair value items booked on acquisitions.
The net impact arising from the new US tax legislation with the US Federal tax rate moving from 35% to 21%.
The Board consider the underlying results to be a key measure to monitor how the businesses are performing because this provides a more meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis and achieves consistency and comparability between reporting periods.
The underlying measures are used to partly determine the variable element of remuneration of senior management throughout the Group and are also in alignment with performance measures used by certain external stakeholders.
The underlying measures are also one measure used to value individual businesses as part of the Buy, Improve and Sell Melrose strategy model.
Underlying profit is not a defined term under IFRS and may not be comparable with similarly titled profit measures reported by other companies.
It is not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures.
All APMs relate to the current year results and comparative periods where provided.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements include the results of the parent undertaking and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of businesses acquired during the period are included from the effective date of acquisition and, for those sold during the period, to the effective date of disposal.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
The interest of non-controlling shareholders is initially measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the share of the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 108 Notes to the financial statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Going concern The Directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained on page 40 of the Finance Directors review.
Business combinations and goodwill The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the fair value of assets transferred, the liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange of control and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
Costs directly attributable to business combinations are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement as incurred.
The acquired identifiable assets and liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition except those where specific guidance is provided by IFRSs.
Non-current assets and directly attributable liabilities that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5: Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations, are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Also, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 12: Income taxes, liabilities and assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits and liabilities or equity instruments related to the replacement by the Group of an acquirees share-based payments awards are measured in accordance with IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group reports provisional amounts where appropriate.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Group obtains complete information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum period of one year.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
As at the acquisition date, any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating units acquired.
Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
When there is a disposal of a cash-generating unit, goodwill relating to the operation disposed of is taken into account in determining the gain or loss on disposal of that operation.
The amount of goodwill allocated to a partial disposal is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the operation retained.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity which is not a subsidiary undertaking but the interest of the Group is that of a partner in a business over which the Group exercises joint control.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, customs duties and sales related taxes.
Revenue is reduced for estimated customer returns, rebates and other similar allowances.
The nature of agreements into which the Group enters means that: Certain of the Groups arrangements with its customers are multiple element arrangements that can include any combination of products and services such as extended warranties, installation and start up testing as deliverables.
With the exception of certain extended warranty arrangements, substantially all of the deliverables within the Groups multiple-element arrangements are delivered within a one year period.
Revenue for any undelivered elements are deferred until delivery occurs.
The Group allocates revenue to multiple-element arrangements based on the relative fair value of each elements estimated selling price.
The service element of the contract is usually insignificant in relation to the total contract value and is often provided on a shortterm or one-off basis.
Where this is the case, revenue is recognised when the service is complete.
Aftermarket activities generally relate to the provision of spare parts, repairs and the rebuild of equipment.
Revenue on the provision of parts is recognised in accordance with the policy on the sale of goods and revenue for repairs and rebuild is recognised upon completion of the activity.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 109 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Cash discounts, volume rebates and other customer incentive programmes are based upon certain percentages agreed upon with the Groups various customers, which are typically earned by the customer over an annual period.
The Group records periodic estimates for these amounts based upon the historical results to date, estimated future results through the end of the contract period, and the contractual provisions of the customer agreements.
These are recorded at the later of the date at which the revenues are recognised or the incentive is offered and are generally recorded as a reduction in sales at the time of sale based upon the estimated future outcome.
The significant majority of the Groups revenue is recognised on a sale of goods basis.
The specific methods used to recognise the different forms of revenue earned by the Group are as follows: Sale of goods Revenue is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied: the Group has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods: the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods: the amount of revenue can be measured reliably: it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group: and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.
Transfers of risks and rewards vary depending on the nature of the products sold and the individual terms of the contract of sale.
Sales made under internationally accepted trade terms are recognised as revenue when the Group has completed the primary duties required to transfer risks as stipulated in those terms.
Sales made outside of such terms are generally recognised on delivery to the customer.
No revenue is recognised where recovery of the consideration is not probable or there are significant uncertainties regarding associated costs or the possible return of goods.
Provision of services As noted above, because revenue from the rendering of services is usually not significant in relation to the total contract value and is generally provided on a short-term or one-off basis, revenue is usually recognised when the service is complete.
Construction contracts Revenue from significant contracts, without discrete elements, is recognised in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract by reference to the specific contract terms and the costs incurred on the contract at the Balance Sheet date in comparison to the total forecast costs of the contract.
This is normally measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred for work performed to date bear to the estimated total contract costs, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included in revenue from construction contracts when the amount can be measured reliably and its receipt is considered probable.
Variations are included when the customer has agreed to the variation or acknowledged liability for the variation in principle.
Claims are included when negotiations with the customer have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept the claim.
Incentive payments are included when a contract is sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the performance standards triggering the incentive will be achieved.
Profit attributable to contract activity is recognised if the final outcome of such contracts can be reliably assessed.
Where this is not the case contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recovered.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Interest income Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after the share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates, and before finance costs.
EBITDA EBITDA is operating profit from continuing operations, before depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations, computer software and development costs.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Issue costs of loans The finance cost recognised in the Income Statement in respect of the issue costs of borrowings is allocated to periods over the terms of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 110 Notes to the financial statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
The initial cost of an asset comprises its purchase price or construction cost, and any costs directly attributable to bring the asset into operation.
The purchase price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: Freehold land nil Freehold buildings and long leasehold property over expected economic life not exceeding 50 years Short leasehold property over the term of the lease Plant and equipment 3-12 years The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed on an annual basis and, if necessary, changes in useful lives are accounted for prospectively.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If any such indication exists an impairment review is performed and, where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising on derecognition of the asset calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds or costs and the carrying amount of the item is included in the Income Statement in the year that the item is derecognised.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
On acquisition of businesses, separately identifiable intangible assets are initially recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date.
Access to the use of brands and intellectual property are valued using a relief from royalty method which determines the net present value of future additional cash flows arising from the use of the intangible asset.
Customer relationships are valued on the basis of the net present value of the future additional cash flows arising from customer relationships with appropriate allowance for attrition of customers.
Technology assets are valued using a replacement cost approach.
Amortisation of intangible assets is recorded in administration expenses in the Income Statement and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the asset as follows: Customer relationships 20 years or less Brands and intellectual property 20 years or less Technology 5 years or less Order backlog 1 year or less Computer software 5 years or less Development costs 5 years or less Computer software is initially recorded at cost.
Where these assets have been acquired through a business combination, this will be the fair value allocated in the acquisition accounting.
Where these have been acquired other than through a business combination, the initial cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Intangible assets other than computer software and development costs are tested for impairment annually or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses are measured on a similar basis to property, plant and equipment.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred.
Costs relating to clearly defined and identifiable development projects are capitalised when there is a technical degree of exploitation, adequacy of resources and a potential market or development possibility in the undertaking that are recognisable: and where it is the intention to produce, market or execute the project.
A correlation must also exist between the costs incurred and future benefits and those costs can be measured reliably.
Capitalised costs are expensed on a straight-line basis over their useful lives of five years or less.
Costs not meeting such criteria are expensed as incurred.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 111 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value and measured using a first in, first out basis.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and appropriate production overhead expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provisions are made for obsolescence or other expected losses where necessary.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables and other receivables are measured and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
The carrying amount of other receivables is reduced by the impairment loss directly and a charge is recorded in the Income Statement.
For trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account and changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade receivables that are assessed not to be impaired individually are also assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include the Groups past experience of collecting receipts, an increase in the number of delayed receipts in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the Balance Sheet comprise cash in hand, current balances with banks and similar institutions and short-term deposits which are readily convertible to cash which are subject to insignificant risks of changes in value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received net of issue costs associated with the borrowings.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs, and any discount or premium on settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
Leases Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Net Debt Net debt includes interest-bearing loans, finance leases and cash and cash equivalents.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant periods.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash payments throughout the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate, foreign exchange rate and commodity risks, arising from operating and financing activities.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Details of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in note 23 of the financial statements.
Derivative financial instruments are recognised and stated at fair value.
Their fair value is recalculated at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment for the resulting gain or loss will depend on whether the derivative meets the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting.
Where derivatives do not meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, any gains or losses on the revaluation to fair value at the period end are recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Where derivatives do meet the criteria to qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resulting gain or loss on revaluation depends on the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
Derivative financial instruments with maturity dates of less than one year from the period end date are classified as current in the Balance Sheet.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 112 Notes to the financial statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Hedge accounting In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to document from inception the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging instrument and to show that the hedge will be highly effective on an ongoing basis.
This effectiveness testing is performed at each period end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The Group designates certain hedging instruments as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Fair value hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Cash flow hedge Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the Groups exposure to the variability in cash flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecasted cash flow.
The effective portion of any gain or loss from revaluing the derivative financial instrument is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts previously recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity are recycled to the Income Statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the Income Statement or when the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a nonfinancial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Derivative financial instruments are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the Groups net investment in foreign operations.
The effective element of any foreign exchange gain or loss from revaluing the derivative at a reporting period end is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Any ineffective element is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Gains and losses accumulated in equity are recognised immediately in the Income Statement when the foreign operation is disposed of or when the hedge is no longer expected to occur.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a rate that reflects the current market assessment of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
Restructuring A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by either starting to implement the plan or by announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Warranties Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products and subsequently updated for changes in estimates as necessary.
The Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligation is used to determine the amount of the provision.
Onerous contracts Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Environmental liabilities Liabilities for environmental costs are recognised when environmental assessments or clean-ups are probable and the associated costs can be reasonably estimated.
Generally, the timing of these provisions coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action.
The amount recognised is the best estimate of the expenditure required.
Where the liability will not be settled for a number of years, the amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
Employee related Liabilities for health and workers compensation expenses are provided for based on the total liabilities that are able to be estimated and are probable as of the balance sheet date.
These liabilities include an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported and are based on actuarial valuations using claim data.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 113 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Product liability Provisions are recorded for product and general liability claims which are probable and for which the cost can be reliably estimated.
Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
At the end of subsequent reporting periods, such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would be recognised in accordance with IAS 37: Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets and the amount initially recognised less cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance with IAS 18: Revenue.
Pensions and other retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans, some of which require contributions to be made to administered funds separate from the Group.
For the defined benefit pension and retirement benefit plans, plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis and discounted at an interest rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
Any assets resulting from this calculation are limited to past service cost plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation, and the related current service cost and past service cost, are measured using the projected unit credit method.
The service cost of providing pension and other retirement benefits to employees for the period is charged to the Income Statement.
Net interest expense on net defined benefit obligations is determined by applying discount rates used to measure defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year to net defined benefit obligations at the beginning of the year.
Net interest expense is recognised within finance costs.
Remeasurement gains and losses comprise actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on plan assets excluding interest.
Remeasurement gains and losses, and taxation thereon, are recognised in full in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they occur and are not subsequently recycled.
Actuarial gains and losses may result from differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying the plan obligations and actual experience during the period or changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation of the plan obligations.
For defined contribution plans, contributions payable are charged to the Income Statement as an operating expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to the contributions.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds Sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each Balance Sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the Income Statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Income Statement for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the Balance Sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of transactions are used.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and accumulated in equity attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the related operation is disposed of.
Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed to non-controlling interests are derecognised but they are not reclassified to the Income Statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rate prevailing at the Balance Sheet date.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 114 Notes to the financial statements Continued 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies continued Taxation The tax expense is based on the taxable profits for the period and represents the sum of the tax paid or currently payable and deferred tax.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the Balance Sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences except: where the deferred tax liability arises on the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised except: where the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Balance Sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the relevant Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tax relating to items recognised directly in other comprehensive income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and not in the Income Statement.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and where receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Balance Sheet.
Share-based payments The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2: Share-based payment.
The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value of the equity instrument excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on the Directors best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Non-current assets and businesses held for sale Non-current assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Non-current assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as having been met only when the sale is highly probable and the asset or business is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 115 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
There are no critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, to disclose within the scope of paragraph 122 of IAS 1: Presentation of financial statements.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting period end that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Assumptions used to determine the carrying amount of the Energy segment IAS 36: Impairment of assets requires that the carrying amount of assets does not exceed their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of an assets or cash-generating units CGU fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The Group reported on 21 November 2017 that a full review of the Energy group of CGUs was underway following the continued worsening of the market, recent negative trading statements made by participants in the market sector and the deferral of Generator orders within Brush.
As has been well-publicised, structural changes caused by worldwide environmental policy have triggered a fall in volumes in the gas turbine market of over 60% from its peak in 2011.
This in turn has resulted in Brushs turbogenerator sales falling.
These circumstances resulted in a reduction in the forecasts of the Brush business and the communication, in the November trading statement, that the current order intake by Brush would result in a low single-digit margin during 2018.
Given the challenging current market conditions affecting the Energy segment, management conducted a review of the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and computer software as at 31 December 2017 using a value in use calculation.
This required the entity to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the property, plant and equipment and use a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Management draws upon experience as well as external resources in making these estimates.
Based on this testing, an impairment loss of 18.2 million was identified in relation to specific items of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
At 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and computer software was 70.1 million 31 December 2016: 118.2 million.
The key estimates used to derive these non-current asset discounted cash flow valuations were revenue changes, operating margins impacting EBITDA and market conditions that impact long-term growth rates and discount rates.
As a result of its closure in November 2017, a reassessment of the value of the assets in Brush China resulted in a write down of 31.1 million and therefore the valuation of these assets is no longer considered a key source of estimation uncertainty.
Goodwill and intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired and at least annually.
Under IAS 36, the value in use basis for calculating the recoverable amount prohibits the inclusion of future uncommitted restructuring plans, however, the fair value less costs to sell basis valuation should reflect all future events including restructuring that would affect the expected cash flows for a market participant.
The recent trading announcements by key players in the market in which Brush operates is considered to be a good indication that a market participant would restructure the business and therefore the restructuring impact should be included in the calculation.
For the purposes of this impairment test, the Energy group of CGUs has been measured using the higher of a fair value less disposal costs basis and a value in use basis.
The fair value less cost to sell basis gives a value of 300 million net of expected costs of disposal, which is more than the recoverable amount calculated using the value in use basis of 177.5 million.
The fair value less costs to sell basis has therefore been used in the impairment assessment of the Energy group of CGUs, in accordance with IAS 36.
Fair value is the price that would be expected to be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
In estimating the fair value, the Group uses market-observable data to the extent it is available.
The Group engaged third party valuation specialists as necessary and worked closely with these specialists to establish appropriate valuation techniques and market based inputs to the model.
Fair value less disposal costs has been estimated using discounted cash flow projections, approved by management.
The key estimates used to derive this valuation are the timing and impact of restructuring, potential reduction of future sales, operating margins impacting EBITDA and market conditions that impact long-term growth rates and discount rates.
These are considered to be the main risk areas and are discussed in more detail in note 11.
Based on the impairment testing completed at year end, an impairment loss of 95.4 million was identified in relation to the assets of the Brush CGU, and hence goodwill has been written down accordingly.
At 31 December 2017, the carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets in this division not including computer software and development costs was 184.5 million 31 December 2016: 283.0 million.
Further information on the carrying amount of these assets, including a sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions, is provided in note 11.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 116 Notes to the financial statements Continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Assumptions used to determine the carrying amount of the Groups defined benefit obligation The Groups defined benefit obligation is discounted at a rate set by reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds.
Significant judgement is required when setting the criteria for bonds to be included in the population from which the yield curve is derived.
The most significant criteria considered for the selection of bonds include the issue size of the corporate bonds, quality of the bonds and the identification of outliers which are excluded.
In addition judgement is made in determining mortality rate assumptions to be used when valuing the Groups defined benefit obligations.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups retirement benefit obligation deficit was 17.6 million 31 December 2016: 33.4 million.
Further details of the assumptions applied and a sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to determine the Groups defined benefit obligations is shown in note 22.
Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue, as defined by IAS 18: Revenue, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m Revenue from the sale of goods 1,995.7 807.8 Revenue recognised on long-term contracts 5.0 3.0 Revenue from the provision of services 91.5 78.5 Revenue 5 2,092.2 889.3 Finance income 7 0.8 1.8 Total revenue from continuing operations as defined by IAS 18 2,093.0 891.1 5.
Segment information Segment information is presented in accordance with IFRS 8: Operating segments which requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reported to the Groups Board in order to allocate resources to the segments and assess their performance.
The Groups reportable operating segments under IFRS 8 are as follows: Energy includes the Brush business, a specialist supplier of energy industrial products to the global market.
Air Management includes the Air Quality & Home Solutions business AQH, a leading manufacturer of ventilation products for the professional remodelling and replacement markets, residential new construction market, and do-it-yourself market.
The Air Management division also includes the Heating, Ventilation & Air Conditioning business HVAC which manufactures and sells split-system and packaged air conditioners, heat pumps, furnaces, air handlers and parts for the residential replacement and new construction markets, along with custom-designed and engineered HVAC products and systems for non-residential applications.
Security & Smart Technology SST includes the Security & Control business SCS along with the Core Brands and GTO Access Systems businesses.
These businesses are manufacturers and distributors of products designed to provide convenience and security primarily for residential applications and audio visual equipment for the residential audio video and professional video market.
Ergonomics comprises the Ergotron business, a manufacturer and distributor of innovative products designed with ergonomic features including wall mounts, carts, arms, desk mounts, workstations and stands that attach to or support a variety of display devices such as notebook computers, computer monitors and flat panel displays.
In addition, there are central cost centres which are also separately reported to the Board.
The central corporate cost centre which contains the Melrose Group head office costs along with charges related to the divisional management long-term incentive plans and the remaining Nortek central cost centre.
All operating segments are classified as continuing operations.
Transfer prices between business units are set on an arms length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties.
No single customer contributed 10% or more to the Groups revenue in either 2017 or 2016.
The Groups geographical segments are determined by the location of the Groups non-current assets and, for revenue, the location of external customers.
Inter-segment sales are not material and have not been disclosed.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 117 5.
Segment information continued Segment revenues and results The following tables present the revenue, results and certain asset and liability information regarding the Groups operating segments and central cost centres for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the comparative year.
Security & 1 Nortek Central Air Smart Nortek - total Energy Management Technology Ergonomics central corporate Total m Year ended 31 December 2017 m m m m m m m Revenue 219.0 1,159.6 440.7 272.9 1,873.2 2,092.2 Underlying operating profit loss 17.5 146.1 70.7 69.6 2.1 284.3 23.4 278.4 Impairment of Brush assets 144.7 144.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.8 35.3 20.2 17.1 72.6 81.4 Restructuring costs 5.9 19.0 6.7 2.1 1.3 29.1 35.0 Acquisition and disposal costs 5.8 5.8 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme 24.2 24.2 Release of fair value items 0.3 3.2 1.8 0.5 5.5 5.8 Operating loss profit 141.6 95.0 45.6 50.9 3.4 188.1 53.4 6.9 Finance costs 21.5 Finance income 0.8 Loss before tax 27.6 Tax 3.7 Loss for the year 23.9 1 Includes 7.6 million 2016: nil of costs relating to divisional Long-term Incentive Plans.
Security & 1 Air Smart Nortek CentralEnergy Management Technology Ergonomics Nortek central total corporate Total Year ended 31 December 2016 m m m m m m m m Revenue 246.4 416.5 130.4 96.0 642.9 889.3 Underlying operating profit loss 32.0 46.8 17.1 24.4 2.0 86.3 14.2 104.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 8.5 15.1 6.9 5.8 27.8 36.3 Restructuring costs 6.1 12.4 1.1 31.8 45.3 51.4 Acquisition and disposal costs 38.7 38.7 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme 22.8 22.8 Release of fair value items 1.7 1.7 Removal of one-off uplift in value of inventory 13.0 3.4 1.8 18.2 18.2 Operating profit loss 19.1 6.3 5.7 16.8 33.8 5.0 75.7 61.6 Finance costs 9.5 Finance income 1.8 Loss before tax 69.3 Tax 30.3 Loss for the year 39.0 1 I ncludes four months trading of Nortek following its acquisition on 31 August 2016.
2 IAS 12 requires the set off of deferred tax assets and liabilities in the same tax jurisdiction.
The 10.3 million 31 December 2016: 31.0 million negative balance within Nortek central liabilities represents 36.7 million 31 December 2016: 85.5 million of Nortek central deferred tax assets which have been treated as negative liabilities to represent the required offset, and 26.4 million 31 December 2016: 54.5 million of other Nortek central liabilities.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 118 Notes to the financial statements Continued 5.
Segment information continued 1 1 Capital expenditure Depreciation Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m m m Energy 1.8 3.6 9.2 9.0 Air Management 44.4 10.3 18.9 6.4 Security & Smart Technology 3.1 1.8 3.1 1.0 Ergonomics 2.4 1.1 2.8 1.0 Nortek central 0.1 0.7 0.5 Nortek total 49.9 13.3 25.5 8.9 Central corporate 0.2 Total 51.7 16.9 34.7 18.1 1 Including computer software and development costs.
Geographical information The Group operates in various geographical areas around the world.
The Groups country of domicile is the UK and the Groups revenues and non-current assets in Europe and North America are also considered to be material.
The Groups revenue from external customers and information about its segment assets non-current assets excluding interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets, derivative financial assets and non-current trade and other receivables by geographical location are detailed below: 1 Revenue from external customers Non-current assets 2 Year ended Year ended Restated 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m m m UK 104.7 88.9 130.3 183.3 Europe 124.2 82.3 108.8 181.4 North America 1,767.8 638.8 2,207.3 2,480.1 Other 95.5 79.3 10.1 36.4 Total 2,092.2 889.3 2,456.5 2,881.2 1 Revenue is presented by destination.
2 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11.
Reconciliation between profit and underlying profit As described in note 2, underlying profit loss is an alternative performance measure used by the Board to monitor the underlying trading performance of the Group.
The Board considers the underlying results to be a key measure to monitor how the businesses are performing because this provides a more meaningful comparison of how the business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis and achieves consistency and comparability between reporting periods.
A reconciliation between the statutory loss and underlying profit is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m Operating loss 6.9 61.6 Impairment of Brush assets a 144.7 Amortisation of intangible assets b 81.4 36.3 Restructuring costs c 35.0 51.4 Acquisition and disposal costs d 5.8 38.7 Removal of one-off uplift in value of inventory e 18.2 Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme f 24.2 22.8 Release of fair value items g 5.8 1.7 1 Total adjustments to operating loss 285.3 165.7 Underlying operating profit 278.4 104.1 1 Of the adjustments to operating loss, 285.3 million 2016: 147.5 million is included within net operating expenses and nil 2016: 18.2 million within cost of sales.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 119 6.
Reconciliation between profit and underlying profit continued a. T he results for the year ended 31 December 2017 included an impairment charge totalling 144.7 million in respect of the carrying value of the assets held within the Brush business.
This charge included 31.1 million in respect of the net assets of Brush China, which was closed in November 2017, and, following a review of the non-current assets, included 18.2 million in respect of fixed assets and 95.4 million in respect of goodwill.
The impairment charge has been excluded from underlying results due to its one-off nature and size.
b. T he amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations are excluded from underlying results due to their non-trading nature and to enable comparison with companies that grow organically and do not have such a charge.
Where intangible assets are trading in nature, such as computer software and development costs, the amortisation of these intangible assets are shown within underlying results.
c. R estructuring costs and other associated costs arising from significant strategy changes totalled 35.0 million 2016: 51.4 million and included 1.1 million 2016: nil of losses incurred following the announcement of the closure of certain businesses.
Within the Nortek businesses the cost of restructuring actions taken in the year was 29.1 million 2016: 45.3 million, of which 31.8 million related to the closure of the Nortek head office.
These actions included the closure of loss making operations within the HVAC business, the removal of excess manufacturing capacity in the Air Quality & Home Solutions business and the consolidation of Nortek Security & Control, GTO and Core Brands into a single Security & Smart Technology division based in Carlsbad.
Restructuring costs also included 5.9 million 2016: 6.1 million within the Brush businesses relating to the closure of the China factory and realigning the cost base of Brush with the reduced revenue.
Restructuring costs are excluded from underlying results due to their size and nontrading nature.
d. A cquisition and disposal costs incurred in the year ended 31 December 2017 totalled 5.8 million 2016: 38.7 million and included the costs involved in returning the ordinary shares of the Company to the Premium List of the London Stock Exchange following on from the acquisition of Nortek, along with 1.8 million of committed costs associated with the potential acquisition of GKN plc.
In the year ended 31 December 2016 acquisition and disposal costs related primarily to the acquisition of Nortek.
These items are excluded from underlying results due to their non-trading nature.
e. T he one-off loss of profit effect of being required to uplift the value of inventory acquired in an acquisition to that close to its selling price was excluded from the year ended 31 December 2016 underlying results due to its size and non-recurring nature.
f. T he charge for the equity-settled Melrose Incentive Plan, including its associated employers tax charge, is excluded from underlying results due to its size and volatility.
The shares that would be issued in respect of the equity-settled Melrose Plan are included in the calculation of the underlying diluted earnings per share, which the Board consider to be a key measure of performance.
g. D uring the year ended 31 December 2017 certain items, primarily booked as fair value items on the acquisition of Nortek, have been settled for a more favourable amount than first anticipated.
The release of any excess fair value item is shown within non-underlying profit to avoid positively distorting underlying results.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Loss before tax 27.6 69.3 Adjustments to loss before tax per above 285.3 165.7 Underlying profit before tax 257.7 96.4 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m Loss for the year 23.9 39.0 Adjustments to loss before tax per above 285.3 165.7 Net effect of new tax legislation in the US h 26.4 Incremental deferred tax asset recognition on UK losses i 10.4 Tax effect of adjustments to underlying profit before tax 8 44.1 45.9 Adjustments to loss for the year 214.8 109.4 Underlying profit for the year 190.9 70.4 h. T he net tax credit arising from the new US tax legislation enacted in December 2017, including an estimated repatriation charge and changes to closing deferred tax items due to a reduction in the Federal tax rate from 35% to 21%, has been included as non-underlying because of its size and one-off nature.
D uring the year ended 31 December 2016 deferred tax assets on UK tax losses, which are now considered accessible following acquisition and disposal activities, were recognised.
This is excluded from underlying results due to its size, volatility and non-trading nature.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 120 Notes to the financial statements Continued 7.
Revenues and expenses Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Net operating expenses comprise: Selling and distribution costs 167.7 76.7 1 Administration expenses 492.6 249.1 Share of results of joint ventures note 13 0.6 0.9 Total net operating expenses 659.7 324.9 1 Includes 285.3 million 2016: 147.5 million of non-underlying costs.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Cost of inventories 1,439.4 626.0 Amortisation of intangible assets acquired in business combinations note 11 81.4 36.3 1 Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment note 12 74.7 18.4 1 Impairment of goodwill note 11 95.4 1 Amortisation and impairment of computer software and development costs note 11 4.3 7.5 Operating lease expense 20.0 10.7 Staff costs 502.9 246.6 2 Research and development costs 18.7 3.9 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.6 Loss on disposal of computer software and development costs 0.3 0.2 1 Expense of writing down inventory to net realisable value 11.8 9.3 Reversals of previous write-downs of inventory 2.7 6.6 Impairment recognised on trade receivables 4.6 3.7 Impairment reversed on trade receivables 4.4 1.1 1 Of the 144.7 million of Brush impairment charges, 95.4 million relates to goodwill, 0.5 million relates to computer software and development costs, 42.3 million relates to property, plant and equipment, 3.9 million relates to inventory and 2.6 million relates to other assets.
2 In addition staff costs include 44.2 million 2016: 19.2 million of research and development related costs.
The analysis of auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.3 1.8 Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Nortek acquisition Balance Sheet 0.5 Total fees payable for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 2.3 2.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other audit services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.4 0.5 Total audit fees 2.7 2.8 Audit-related assurance services: Review of the half year interim statement 0.2 0.1 Non-statutory audit of certain of the Companys businesses 0.9 0.1 Other assurance services 0.1 0.4 Total audit-related assurance services 1.2 0.6 Total audit and audit-related assurance services 3.9 3.4 Taxation compliance services 0.1 Other taxation advisory services 0.9 Corporate finance services 0.5 1.8 Total audit and non-audit fees 4.4 6.2 Details of the Companys policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services and how auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee report on page 76.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 121 7.
Revenues and expenses continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Staff costs during the year including executive Directors Wages and salaries 433.4 204.9 1 Social security costs 52.0 31.7 Pension costs note 22 defined benefit plans 0.2 0.1 defined contribution plans 7.2 5.9 2 Share based compensation expense note 21 10.1 4.0 Total staff costs 502.9 246.6 1 Includes the employers tax charge on the change in value of the Melrose equity-settled incentive scheme note 6.
2 Charged to non-underlying expense note 6.
1 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations Number Number Average monthly number of persons employed including executive Directors Energy 1,798 2,107 Air Management 6,205 6,743 Security & Smart Technology 2,507 2,602 Ergonomics 1,418 1,546 2 Nortek central 2 86 Central corporate 30 30 Total average number of persons employed 11,960 13,114 1 For Nortek businesses the average monthly number of persons employed in the year ended 31 December 2016 reflects the average for the four month period from the date of acquisition.
2 At 31 December 2017, no Nortek central employees remained within the Group 31 December 2016: 10.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Finance costs and income Interest on bank loans and overdrafts 16.8 7.7 Amortisation of costs of raising finance 2.3 0.7 Net interest cost on pensions 1.1 0.9 Unwind of discount on provisions 1.3 0.2 Total finance costs 21.5 9.5 Finance income 0.8 1.8 Total net finance costs 20.7 7.7 8.
Tax Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Analysis of charge credit in year: Current tax In respect of current year 13.1 6.0 In respect of prior year 0.2 3.0 Deferred tax In respect of current year 6.4 22.5 Adjustments to deferred tax attributable to changes in tax rates 39.4 0.4 Loss utilisation against US repatriation charge 16.0 Recognition of previously unrecognised UK tax losses 10.4 Total income tax credit 3.7 30.3 The total income tax credit of 3.7 million 2016: 30.3 million is comprised of a current tax charge of 13.3 million 2016: 3.0 million and a deferred tax credit of 17.0 million 2016: 33.3 million.
The deferred tax credit for the year has been materially affected by the reduction of corporate tax rates in the UK and the US.
In the UK, the Finance Act 2016 enacted future reductions in the rate of UK Corporation Tax and excess losses arising in the current year have been recognised in the closing Balance Sheet at the rates at which the benefit is likely to reverse.
This has resulted in an effective deferred tax charge of 3.0 million 2016: credit of 0.4 million which is included in underlying tax.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 122 Notes to the financial statements Continued 8.
Tax continued In addition, the new US tax measures enacted in December 2017 include a reduction of the Federal tax rate from 35% to 21% with effect from 1 January 2018, requiring a revaluation of the US deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 December 2017.
The reduction in the deferred tax liability held in respect of intangible assets results in a tax credit of 99.5 million 2016: nil, whilst the reduction in the deferred tax assets held within the Groups subsidiaries results in a tax charge of 57.1 million 2016: nil.
Together with a charge of 16.0 million 2016: nil in respect of the US repatriation charge, these amounts total 26.4 million 2016: nil which is classified as non-underlying tax.
In addition, the tax effect of non-underlying items incurred in the year was a credit of 44.1 million 2016: 45.9 million which comprises 2.5 million 2016: nil in respect of impairment of Brush assets, 10.0 million 2016: 18.2 million in respect of restructuring costs, 0.3 million 2016: 3.9 million in respect of acquisition and disposal costs, 30.0 million 2016: 12.8 million in respect of the amortisation of intangible assets, nil 2016: 6.8 million in respect of the required uplift in the value of inventory acquired with Nortek, 2.9 million 2016: 4.5 million in respect of Melrose equity-settled compensation scheme, and a charge of 1.6 million 2016: 0.3 million in respect of the release of fair value provisions and other items.
The tax credit for the year for continuing operations can be reconciled to the loss per the Income Statement as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Loss on ordinary activities before tax: 27.6 69.3 Tax on loss on ordinary activities at weighted average rate 14.22% 2016: 40.82% 3.9 28.3 Tax effect of: Disallowable expenses within underlying items 5.4 1.6 Disallowable items in respect of non-underlying items 21.7 7.3 Temporary differences not recognised in deferred tax 11.0 2.7 Tax credits, withholding taxes and other rate differences 0.9 0.2 Prior year tax adjustments 10.6 3.0 Tax credit classified as non-underlying note 6 26.4 10.4 Total tax credit for the year 3.7 30.3 The reconciliation has been performed at a blended Group tax rate of 14.22% 2016: 40.82% which represents the weighted average of the tax rates applying to profits and losses in the jurisdictions in which those results arose.
In addition to the amount charged to the Income Statement, a tax credit of 31.6 million 2016: 2.1 million has been recognised in equity.
This represents a tax charge of 1.1 million 2016: 3.3 million in respect of retirement benefit obligations, a tax charge of 0.7 million 2016: 1.1 million in respect of movements on cash flow hedges, a tax credit of nil 2016: 1.3 million in respect of tax charged on foreign exchange gains and a tax credit of 33.4 million 2016: 5.2 million in respect of share based payments.
Dividends Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m 1 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2015 paid of 2.6p 0.5 p 3.8 1 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 paid of 1.4p 0.3 p 2.0 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2016 paid of 1.9p 35.8 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 paid of 1.4p 27.2 63.0 5.8 1 Adjusted to include the effects of the Rights Issue note 10.
Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2017 of 2.8p per share 2016: 1.9p per share totalling 54.4 million 2016: 35.8 million.
The final dividend of 2.8p was proposed by the Board on 20 February 2018 and, in accordance with IAS 10: Events after the reporting period, has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 123 10.
Earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Earnings attributable to owners of the parent m m Earnings for basis of earnings per share from continuing operations 23.9 39.0 1 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share million 1,918.7 1,499.3 Further shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 22.5 89.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share million 1,941.2 1,589.1 1 On 24 August 2016, a 12 for 1, fully underwritten, Rights Issue was completed by Melrose Industries PLC and subsequently 1,741.6 million new ordinary shares were issued raising 1,654.5 million to part fund the acquisition of the Nortek Group.
In accordance with IAS 33, a bonus factor associated with the issue of the new share capital of 18.8491% has been applied to the number of ordinary shares in issue prior to 24 August 2016 for the purposes of earnings per share calculations.
On 28 January 2016 the number of ordinary shares in issue was consolidated in a ratio of 7 for 48, which reduced the number of ordinary shares in issue from 995.2 million to 145.1 million.
On 1 June 2017 the number of ordinary shares in issue increased by 54.5 million following the crystallisation of the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan which increased the number of shares in issue from 1,886.7 million to 1,941.2 million.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Earnings per share pence pence Basic earnings per share 1.2 2.6 Diluted earnings per share 1.2 2.6 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Underlying earnings Note m m Underlying earnings for the basis of underlying earnings per share from continuing operations 6 190.9 70.4 Underlying earnings per share Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations pence pence Underlying basic earnings per share 9.9p 4.7p Underlying diluted earnings per share 9.8p 4.4p Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 124 Notes to the financial statements Continued 11.
2 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek.
3 Transferred to assets held for sale at 30 June 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5, subsequently disposed on 10 August 2017.
4 The impairment in 2017 relates to impairments recognised in the Energy segment.
The impairment charges in 2016 relate to the closure of the Nortek head office.
The goodwill generated as a result of major acquisitions represents the premium paid in excess of the fair value of all net assets, including intangible assets, identified at the point of acquisition.
The carrying value of goodwill includes a premium, paid in order to secure shareholder agreement to the business combination, that is less than the value that the Directors believed could be added to the acquired businesses through the application of their specialist turnaround experience.
The goodwill arising on bolt-on acquisitions is attributable to the anticipated profitability and cash flows arising from the businesses acquired, synergies as a result of the complementary nature of the business with existing Melrose businesses, the assembled workforce, technical expertise, knowhow, market share and geographical advantages afforded to the Group.
The future improvements applied to the acquired businesses, achieved through a combination of revised strategic direction, operational improvements and investment, are expected to result in improved profitability of the acquired businesses during the period of ownership and are also expected to result in enhanced disposal proceeds when the acquired businesses are ultimately disposed.
The combined value achieved from these improvements is expected to be in excess of the value of goodwill acquired.
Goodwill acquired in business combinations, net of impairment, has been allocated to the businesses, each of which comprises several cash-generating units, as follows: 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Energy 122.0 212.9 Air Management 580.5 636.1 Security & Smart Technology 320.2 350.6 Ergonomics 409.5 448.7 Nortek total 1,310.2 1,435.4 Total operations 1,432.2 1,648.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek.
The Group tests goodwill annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
In accordance with IAS 36: Impairment of assets the Group values goodwill at the recoverable amount, being the higher of the value in use basis and the fair value less costs to sell basis.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 125 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Value in use calculations have been used to determine the recoverable amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units CGUs within Nortek.
The calculation uses the latest approved forecast extrapolated to perpetuity using growth rates shown below, which do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the relevant market.
Based on impairment testing completed at the year end, no impairment was identified in respect of the Nortek businesses.
No reasonable possible change in key assumptions would result in an impairment in any of the Nortek group of CGUs.
At 31 December 2017 an agreed restructuring plan had not been publicly announced or communicated to those affected by the restructure and therefore, in accordance with IAS 37: Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets, these costs were not considered to be committed.
The restructuring plan was subsequently announced on 1 February 2018.
The fair value less costs to sell calculation does not include any synergistic savings as these synergies would not be available to most market participants.
The inclusion of the impacts of the restructuring plan, risk adjusted downwards to reflect the inherent execution risk, results in the fair value less cost to sell basis giving a value of 300 million net of expected costs of disposal, which is more than the recoverable amount calculated using the value in use basis of 177.5 million.
Based on the impairment testing completed at year end, an impairment loss of 95.4 million was identified in relation to these assets, and hence goodwill has been written down accordingly.
Combined with the 31.1 million write down of assets in Brush China following its closure in November 2017 and the 18.2 million impairment of fixed assets, tested separately on a value in use basis as required by IAS 36 a total impairment charge of 144.7 million is shown in non-underlying items note 6.
The basis of these impairment tests and the key assumptions are set out in the table below: 31 December 2017 Carrying Key assumptions value of Pre-tax Post-tax applied in the Basis of goodwill discount discount Period of forecast cash flow Long-term a b c Group of CGUs valuation m rates rates forecast projections growth rates Fair value Revenue growth, less costs of restructuring impact, d 1 Energy disposal 122.0 11.9% 10.0% 5 years operating margins 2.2% Revenue growth, Air Management Value in use 580.5 12.6% 9.8% 4 years operating margins 3.0% Revenue growth, Security & Smart Technology Value in use 320.2 12.6% 9.8% 4 years operating margins 3.0% Revenue growth, Ergonomics Value in use 409.5 12.6% 9.8% 4 years operating margins 3.0% 1 Following a goodwill impairment charge in the year of 95.4 million.
31 December 2016 1 Restated Key assumptions carrying value Pre-tax Post-tax applied in the Basis of of goodwill discount discount Period of forecast cash flow Long-term a b c Group of CGUs valuation m rates rates forecast projections growth rates Revenue growth, Energy Value in use 212.9 11.0% 9.2% 5 years operating margins 2.2% Revenue growth, Air Management Value in use 636.1 12.8% 9.7% 4 years operating margins 3.0% Revenue growth, Security & Smart Technology Value in use 350.6 12.7% 9.7% 4 years operating margins 3.0% Revenue growth, Ergonomics Value in use 448.7 12.6% 9.7% 4 years operating margins 3.0% 1 R estated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 126 Notes to the financial statements Continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued a Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rates Cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate specific to each group of CGUs.
Discount rates reflect the current market assessments of the time value of money and are based on the estimated cost of capital of each CGU.
In determining the cost of equity, the Capital Asset Pricing Model CAPM has been used.
Under CAPM, the cost of equity is determined by adding a risk premium to the risk free rate to reflect the additional risk associated with investing outside of lending to a country.
The risk free rate for the Energy group of CGUs is based on the cost of UK Government bonds, whilst the risk free rate for the Air Management, Security & Smart Technology and Ergonomics groups of CGUs are based on the cost of US Government bonds.
The premium is based on an industry adjustment Beta to the expected return of the equity market above the risk free return.
The relative risk adjustment reflects the risk inherent in each group of CGUs relative to all other sectors and geographies on average.
The discount rate used for the Energy group of CGUs has been risk adjusted to reflect the execution risk inherent in future restructuring plans in the fair value less costs of disposal approach.
b Assumptions applied in financial forecasts The Group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from financial budgets and medium-term forecasts.
The key assumptions used in forecasting pre-tax cash flows relate to future budgeted revenue and operating margins likely to be achieved and the likely rates of long-term growth by market sector.
Underlying factors in determining the values assigned to each key assumption are shown below: Revenue growth and operating margins: Revenue growth assumptions in the forecast period are based on financial budgets and medium-term forecasts by management, taking into account industry growth rates and managements historical experience in the context of wider industry and economic conditions.
Projected sales are built up with reference to markets and product categories.
They incorporate past performance, historical growth rates, projections of developments in key markets, secured orders and orders likely to be achieved in the short to medium-term given trends in the relevant market sector.
Operating margins have been forecast based on historical levels achieved considering the likely impact of changing economic environments and competitive landscapes on volumes and revenues and the impact of management actions on costs.
Projected margins reflect the impact of all initiated projects to improve operational efficiency and leverage scale.
The projections do not include the impact of future restructuring projects to which the Group is not yet committed.
Forecasts for other operating costs are based on inflation forecasts and supply and demand factors.
Brush is a supplier of turbogenerators for the power generation, industrial, Oil & Gas and offshore sectors and a leading supplier of switchgear, transformers and other power infrastructure equipment.
The key drivers for revenues and operating margins are: i original equipment investments in the global power market, both new capacity mainly emerging markets and replacement capacity mainly in mature markets ii growth in service requirements of the installed base: and iii new product introduction.
Independent forecasts of growth in these power generation markets have been used to derive revenue growth assumptions.
As described above, the impacts of the planned restructuring have been included in deriving future operating margins within the Energy group of CGUs using a fair value less costs to sell basis.
The timing of these assumed restructuring impacts have been risk adjusted to reflect the execution risk inherent in future restructuring plans of a market participant and are also a key driver for operating margins in the forecast period.
Nortek is a diversified global manufacturer of innovative air management, security, home automation and ergonomic and productivity solutions.
Air Management is a leading provider of residential indoor air quality improvement solutions, home comfort and convenience products and heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment for both residential and commercial markets.
The key drivers for revenue and operating margins are the levels of residential remodelling and replacement activity and the levels of residential and non-residential new construction in the markets in which Air Management operates.
New residential and non-residential construction activity and, to a lesser extent, residential remodelling and replacement activity are affected by seasonality and cyclical factors such as interest rates, credit availability, inflation, consumer spending, employment levels and other macroeconomic factors.
Security & Smart Technology is a leading developer and manufacturer of security, home automation and access control technologies for residential and commercial markets service providers.
The key driver for revenue and operating margins is global demand for security and home automation products.
Consumer spending, employment levels, regulation, technological advancements and the evolution of the traditional security market towards home automation and other macroeconomic factors influence demand for these products.
The Ergonomics segment includes Ergotron, one of the worlds largest manufacturers of ergonomics equipment.
Ergotron provides a wide variety of solutions to healthcare, education, corporate office and home applications.
The key driver for revenue and operating margins is demand for technology and wellness products in the markets in which Ergotron operates.
Seasonal factors, public authority spending, corporate and consumer spending, employment levels, the public awareness of wellness, regulation, technological advancements and other macroeconomic factors influence demand for these products.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 127 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued c Long-term growth rates Long-term growth rates are based on long-term forecasts for growth in the sectors and geography in which the CGU operates.
Longterm growth rates are determined using a blend of publicly available data and a long-term growth rate forecast that takes into account the international presence and the markets in which each business operates.
d Energy group of CGUs The previous full impairment test performed at 30 June 2017 indicated that although headroom had decreased from 31 December 2016, the recoverable amount was still in excess of the carrying amount.
It is evident that market conditions have deteriorated further since this date and Brush is facing some of the most challenging market conditions it has ever experienced.
The recoverable amount of the Energy group of CGUs has been determined based on fair value less costs of disposal, which was higher than value in use.
The valuation technique used is an income approach, based on discounted future cash flow projections relevant to a market participant.
This methodology includes a risk adjusted assessment of the results of the restructuring plan that was announced on 1 February 2018.
It has been assumed that a market participant would also restructure the business based on the economic data in the market and the announcements made by key players in the market.
Key assumptions used in the calculation of recoverable amounts are discount rates, revenue growth, operating margins and long-term growth rates.
Discount rates The estimate of fair value less disposal costs was determined using a post-tax discount rate of 10.0%.
This discount rate has been risk adjusted to reflect the execution risk inherent in future restructuring plans and hence is higher than would be the case under a nonrestructured basis.
Revenue growth Structural changes caused by worldwide environmental policy have triggered a fall in volumes in the gas turbine market of over 60% from its peak in 2011.
The continuing impacts arising from this downturn in the market are a key assumption.
In addition the revenue assumptions applied to Switchgear, Transformers and Aftermarket are a key assumption.
Revenue is forecast to increase by a compound annual growth rate of 0.2% over the five year projection period.
Restructuring impact and operating margins Over the five year period, operating margins and EBITDA are anticipated to increase as the impact of the restructuring savings materialise.
The timing and quantitative impact of these restructuring benefits is a key assumption.
Long-term growth rates The Energy group of CGUs has five years of cash flows included in their discounted cash flow model.
A long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined based upon the nominal GDP rates for the countries in which the business operates and the long-term compound annual growth rate estimated by management.
The fair value measurement of the Energy group of CGUs is categorised within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
Sensitivity analysis The Energy group of CGUs has been measured at fair value less costs of disposal, a methodology required by IAS 36: Impairment of assets.
Following the above impairment, the recoverable amount is equal to the carrying amount and therefore any adverse movement in a key assumption may lead to further impairment.
The discount rate has been risk adjusted to reflect the uncertainty of achieving the cash flows within the forecast.
However, for illustration purposes a further 0.1 percentage point increase in the discount rate could result in an impairment of 4.5 million.
A further 0.5 million reduction in annual and terminal value operating profit could result in an impairment of 4.9 million.
A further 0.1 percentage point decrease in the long-term growth rate could result in an impairment of 3.5 million.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 128 Notes to the financial statements Continued 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Allocation of significant intangible assets The allocation of significant customer relationships, brands and intellectual property is as follows: Customer relationships Brands and intellectual property Remaining amortisation period Net book value Remaining amortisation period Net book value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 years years m m years years m m AQH 13 14 180.2 213.0 14 15 56.1 65.9 HVAC 10 11 97.4 117.7 14 15 72.0 84.6 SCS 13 14 110.3 130.4 14 15 25.5 30.0 Ergotron 9 10 94.7 115.7 17 18 83.5 97.4 Brush 1 2 1.5 4.5 11 12 61.0 65.6 484.1 581.3 298.1 343.5 Acquisition of businesses On 31 August 2016 the Group acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital and obtained control of Nortek Inc. Nortek for cash consideration of 1,093.1 million.
Nortek is a leading diversified global manufacturer of innovative air management, security, home automation and ergonomic and productivity solutions note 5.
The amounts recognised in respect of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed on the acquisition of Nortek were set out in the 2016 Annual Report.
During the year, the Group has completed its review of the assets and liabilities acquired.
As a result the Group recorded its final adjustments to the opening balance sheet of Nortek at the half year.
In accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations the acquisition Balance Sheet at 31 August 2016 has been restated to reflect this.
These adjustments also impacted the Balance Sheet at 31 December 2016 and increased provisions by 3.4 million, deferred tax assets by 0.3 million and other payables by 1.8 million whilst reducing inventory by 1.2 million and deferred tax liabilities by 63.8 million.
The corresponding adjustment is to decrease goodwill by 57.7 million.
The measurement period was closed at 30 June 2017.
1 Restated fair value m Nortek Property, plant and equipment 143.3 Intangible assets, computer software and development costs 868.4 Interests in joint ventures 3.0 Inventories 254.5 Trade and other receivables 301.5 Cash and cash equivalents 9.4 Trade and other payables 362.1 Provisions 213.0 Deferred tax 103.4 Retirement benefit obligations 42.2 Current tax 9.4 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,065.9 Net liabilities 215.9 Total consideration 1,093.1 Goodwill 1,309.0 Amounts recycled to goodwill 39.5 Total goodwill 1,348.5 Total consideration satisfied by: Cash consideration 1,093.1 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 129 12.
2 The impairment in 2017 relates to impairments recognised in the Energy segment of 42.3 million and in Nortek central of 1.5 million.
Interests in joint ventures 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Aggregated amounts relating to joint ventures: Share of assets 3.1 2.6 Share of liabilities 2.7 2.6 Interests in joint ventures 0.4 Share of joint venture revenues 3.2 1.9 Share of results of joint ventures 0.6 0.9 Dividends received from joint ventures 0.6 0.9 A list of subsidiaries and significant holdings including the name, country of incorporation and proportion of ownership interest is given in note 3 to the Companys separate financial statements.
Inventories 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Raw materials 79.1 74.9 Work in progress 54.6 48.4 Finished goods 141.7 172.8 275.4 296.1 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 130 Notes to the financial statements Continued 14.
Inventories continued In 2017 the write-down of inventories to net realisable value amounted to 11.8 million 2016: 9.3 million.
The reversal of write-downs amounted to 2.7 million 2016: 6.6 million.
Write-downs and reversals in both years relate to ongoing assessments of inventory obsolescence, excess inventory holding and inventory resale values across all of the Groups businesses.
The Directors consider that there is no material difference between the Balance Sheet value of inventories and their replacement cost.
Trade and other receivables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Current m m Trade receivables 312.5 348.4 Allowance for doubtful receivables 14.9 18.3 Other receivables 21.4 15.2 Prepayments 13.0 20.5 332.0 365.8 Trade receivables are non interest-bearing.
Credit terms offered to customers vary upon the country of operation but are generally between 30 and 90 days.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Non-current m m Other receivables 1.9 5.2 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts with reference to past default experience and managements assessment of credit worthiness, an analysis of which is as follows: Nortek Energy Total m m m At 1 January 2016 0.8 0.8 Acquisition of businesses 16.8 16.8 Income Statement charge 2.2 0.4 2.6 Utilised 2.6 0.3 2.9 Exchange differences 0.9 0.1 1.0 At 31 December 2016 17.3 1.0 18.3 Income Statement charge 0.1 0.1 0.2 Utilised 1.2 0.5 1.7 1 Transfer to held for sale 0.7 0.7 Exchange differences 1.2 1.2 At 31 December 2017 14.3 0.6 14.9 1 Transferred to assets held for sale at 30 June 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5, subsequently disposed on 10 August 2017.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large number of customers and because they are unrelated to each other.
Credit control procedures are implemented to ensure that sales are only made to organisations that are willing and able to pay for them.
Such procedures include the establishment and review of customer credit limits and terms.
The Group does not hold any collateral or any other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
The ageing of impaired trade receivables past due is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m 0 30 days 11.0 8.6 31 60 days 0.1 6.2 60 days 3.8 3.5 14.9 18.3 Included in the Groups trade receivables balance are overdue trade receivables with a carrying amount of 54.5 million 31 December 2016: 62.5 million against which an appropriate provision of 14.9 million 31 December 2016: 18.3 million is held.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 131 15.
Trade and other receivables continued The balance deemed recoverable of 39.6 million 31 December 2016: 44.2 million is past due as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m 0 30 days 27.4 41.9 31 60 days 6.3 0.9 60 days 5.9 1.4 39.6 44.2 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables, including amounts not past due and not impaired, approximates to their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 16.3 42.1 Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash at bank and in hand which earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates and short-term deposits which are made for varying periods of between one day and one month and earn interest at the respective short-term deposit rates.
The carrying amount of these assets is considered to be equal to their fair value.
Trade and other payables 1 Restated 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Current m m Trade payables 209.7 230.2 Other payables 17.8 22.6 Other taxes and social security 7.2 7.4 Accruals 131.8 168.0 366.5 428.2 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11.
Trade payables are non interest-bearing.
Normal settlement terms vary by country and the average credit period taken for trade and other payables is 66 days 2016: 66 days.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Non-current m m Other payables 1.3 9.6 Accruals 0.5 4.1 1.8 13.7 The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 132 Notes to the financial statements Continued 18.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
Details of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity, interest rate and foreign currency risk are included in note 23.
Current Non-current Total 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Floating rate obligations Bank borrowings US Dollar loan 461.4 590.5 461.4 590.5 Bank borrowings Sterling loan 134.0 134.0 Fixed rate obligations Bank borrowings Euro loan 1.7 1.7 Finance leases Finance leases 0.4 0.5 0.2 1.1 0.6 1.6 0.4 0.5 595.6 593.3 596.0 593.8 Unamortised finance costs 7.9 10.2 7.9 10.2 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.4 0.5 587.7 583.1 588.1 583.6 As at 1 January 2017 and at 31 December 2017, the Group held a five year multi-currency facility consisting of a US$350 million term loan facility and US$900 million revolving credit facility.
This facility is due to mature on 6 July 2021.
As at 1 January 2017 and at 31 December 2017, the term loan was fully drawn down at US$350 million.
As at 1 January 2017, the revolving credit facility was drawn down by US$379 million.
The drawdowns as at 31 December 2017 under this facility were US$274 million and 134 million.
Throughout the year, the Group remained compliant with all covenants under the facilities disclosed above.
A number of Group companies continue to be guarantors under the bank facilities.
Drawdowns under the existing facilities bear interest at interbank rates plus a margin determined by reference to the Groups performance under its debt covenant ratio, ranging between 0.85% and 2.00% 31 December 2016: range between 0.85% to 2.00%.
Maturity of financial liabilities The table below shows the maturity profile of anticipated future cash flows, including interest, on an undiscounted basis in relation to the Groups financial liabilities.
The amounts shown therefore differ from the carrying value and fair value of the Groups financial liabilities.
The contractual terms of derivative liabilities requires gross settlement.
Note 23 provides details on notional amounts, and therefore, gross settlements, of material currency pairs.
Interest-bearing Derivative loans and financial Other financial Total financial 1 1 borrowings liabilities liabilities liabilities m m m m Within one year 18.3 1.3 359.3 378.9 In one to two years 19.7 1.8 21.5 In two to five years 626.3 626.3 After five years Effect of financing rates 76.2 76.2 31 December 2017 588.1 1.3 361.1 950.5 Within one year 15.2 4.2 420.8 440.2 In one to two years 18.6 13.7 32.3 In two to five years 644.9 644.9 After five years 0.8 0.8 Effect of financing rates 95.9 95.9 31 December 2016 583.6 4.2 434.5 1,022.3 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 133 19.
2 Includes restructuring charges and other non-underlying items of 44.3 million and 62.4 million relating to items charged through underlying operating profit.
3 Transferred to liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5, subsequently disposed on 10 August 2017.
The provision for surplus leasehold property costs represents the estimated net payments payable over the term of these leases together with any dilapidation costs.
This is expected to result in cash expenditure over the next one to seven years.
Environmental and legal costs provisions relate to the estimated remediation costs of pollution, soil and groundwater contamination at certain sites and estimated future costs and settlements in relation to legal claims.
Due to their nature, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
The provision for warranty related costs represents the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Groups obligations, based on past experiences.
Warranty terms are, on average, between one and five years.
The employee related provision relates to the estimated cost of the Groups health insurance and workers compensation plans.
The product liability provision relates to the estimated cost of future product and general liabilities claims.
Due to their nature it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised.
Other provisions relate to costs that will be incurred in respect of restructuring programmes, usually resulting in cash spend within one year.
In addition other provisions include long-term incentive plans for divisional senior management and the employer tax on equitysettled incentive schemes which are expected to result in cash expenditure over the next five years.
Where appropriate, provisions have been discounted using a discount rate of 3% 31 December 2016: 3%.
Deferred tax The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period.
1 Restated 1 deferred tax assets Restated deferred tax liabilities Accelerated capital Tax losses and allowances and Deferred tax on Total deferred tax Total net other assets other liabilities intangible assets liabilities deferred tax m m m m m At 1 January 2016 25.7 6.5 13.7 20.2 5.5 Acquisition of businesses 228.5 331.9 331.9 103.4 Credit charge to income 22.8 2.3 12.8 10.5 33.3 Credit charge to equity 4.8 2.7 2.7 2.1 Exchange differences 5.0 0.2 22.6 22.8 17.8 2 Set off of assets and liabilities 237.2 237.2 237.2 Net amount at 31 December 2016 49.6 11.7 118.2 129.9 80.3 Charge credit to income 107.5 4.9 129.4 124.5 17.0 Credit to equity 30.1 1.5 1.5 31.6 Exchange differences 16.3 0.1 28.3 28.2 11.9 2 Movement in set off of assets and liabilities 93.4 2.7 96.1 93.4 Net amount at 31 December 2017 49.3 12.5 56.6 69.1 19.8 1 Restated to reflect the impact of Nortek acquisition accounting note 11.
2 Set off of deferred tax assets and liabilities in accordance with IAS 12 within the Nortek US Federal tax group.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 134 Notes to the financial statements Continued 20.
Deferred tax continued As at 31 December 2017, the Group had gross unused federal and corporate losses of 497.3 million 31 December 2016: 274.4 million available for offset against future profits.
At 31 December 2017, a 62.4 million deferred tax asset 31 December 2016: 34.9 million in respect of 346.0 million 31 December 2016: 169.1 million of these gross losses was recognised in the Balance Sheet.
No asset was recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the divisional and geographic split of anticipated future profit streams.
The majority of these losses may be carried forward indefinitely subject to certain continuity of business requirements.
In addition a deferred tax asset has been recognised on certain federal tax credits and state tax losses with a net tax value of 32.8 million 2016: 31.8 million.
A net deferred tax asset of 3.9 million 31 December 2016: 5.5 million was recognised in respect of Group retirement benefit obligations and a deferred tax asset of 94.0 million 31 December 2016: 214.6 million was recognised in relation to other temporary differences.
Deferred tax liabilities of 197.7 million 31 December 2016: 355.4 million were recognised in respect of intangible assets and a net deferred tax liability of 15.2 million 31 December 2016: 11.7 million was recognised in respect of accelerated capital allowances and other temporary differences.
In accordance with IAS 12, 143.8 million 31 December 2016: 237.2 million of deferred tax assets and liabilities have been set off within these financial statements, 135.5 million 31 December 2016: 237.2 million in respect of the Nortek US Federal Group and 8.3 million 31 December 2016: nil in respect of the UK entities of Melrose.
As at 31 December 2017, the aggregate amount of temporary differences associated with undistributed earnings of subsidiaries was 187.9 million 31 December 2016: 187.5 million on which a deferred tax liability of 3.0 million has been recognised 31 December 2016: 33.8 million.
There are no further liabilities associated with the distribution of these earnings as a result of the new US tax legislation.
Share-based payments Melrose Incentive Plan On 31 May 2017 the Incentive Plan 2012 crystallised as expected.
Prior to crystallisation the Remuneration Committee determined that 23,494 of the 50,000 options held in respect of the Incentive Plan 2012 should be withheld by the Company in exchange for an equivalently valued 115.5 million cash payment being sufficient to allow the holders of the options to meet their income tax and employee national insurance liabilities in respect of the Incentive Plan 2012.
In respect of the remaining 26,506 options that were not withheld, these were exercised on 30 May 2017 in exchange for 26,506 Incentive Shares 2012, which were issued on 31 May 2017 and converted to 54,453,914 Melrose ordinary shares at that date.
As a result the total number of ordinary shares in the Company increased from 1,886,746,589 shares to 1,941,200,503 shares.
On 11 May 2017, at a Melrose General Meeting, shareholders voted in favour of a new share-based Incentive Plan 2017, on the same economic principles as the previous Incentive Plan 2012, except that: i t he total duration of the replacement plan is five years, split between a three-year performance period after which it will crystallise and the next incentive plan will be established and a further two-year holding period: ii i nstead of a single lump sum allocated on commencement, allocations of interests in the new Incentive Plan 2017 will be phased in three annual tranches throughout the performance period: and iii e xecutive Directors will be subject to malus provisions during the performance period and to clawback provisions for the duration of the subsequent holding period.
At the start of the Incentive Plan 2017 the first tranche of 16,542 options were granted.
For accounting purposes the IFRS 2 charge has been calculated as if all three tranches have been granted on day one because of a common expectation, established at that date, between employees and the Company that the remaining options will be allocated annually in two more equal tranches over the three year performance period.
The estimated value of the Incentive Shares 2017 at 31 December 2017 was nil.
Using a Black Scholes option pricing model, the projected value of this plan at 31 May 2020 will be 24.5 million.
The annual IFRS 2 charge to be recognised in respect of the Incentive Plan 2017 has been established at 13.3 million.
The inputs into the Black Scholes valuation model that were used to fair value the plan at the point of establishment in May 2017 were as follows: Valuation assumptions Weighted average share price 2.41 Weighted average exercise price 2.77 Expected volatility 27% Expected life as at inception 3.05 years Risk free interest 0.2% Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Companys share price.
The Group recognised an IFRS 2 charge of 10.1 million 2016: 4.0 million in the year ended 31 December 2017.
8.4 million 2016: nil was in respect of the 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan and 1.7 million 2016: 4.0 million was in respect of the 2012 Melrose Incentive Plan.
During the year, 12,831 of the Incentive Plan 2017 options were converted to Incentive Shares 2017 with a nominal value of 1 each.
The number of Incentive Plan 2017 options in issue at 31 December 2017 is therefore 37,169 31 December 2016: 50,000 Incentive Plan 2012 options.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 135 22.
Retirement benefit obligations Defined contribution plans The Group operates defined contribution plans for qualifying employees across several jurisdictions.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds under the control of trustees.
The total costs charged in relation to the continuing businesses during the year of 7.2 million 2016: 5.9 million represents contributions payable to these plans by the Group at rates specified in the rules of the plans.
Defined benefit plans The Group sponsors defined benefit plans for qualifying employees of certain subsidiaries.
The funded defined benefit plans are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Group.
The trustees of the funds are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the plans.
The trustees of the pension funds are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.
The most significant defined benefit pension plans in the Group at 31 December 2017 were: The Brush Group 2013 Brush UK Pension Plan, which is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan.
The plan is closed to new members and the accrual of future benefits for existing members.
The Brush Aftermarket North America, Inc. FKI US Group Pension Plan, which is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan.
The Nortek, Inc. Nortek US Retirement Plan, which is defined benefit in type and is a funded plan.
The plan is closed to new members and the accrual of future benefits to existing members.
Other plans include a number of funded and unfunded defined benefit arrangements in the US and Europe.
The cost of the Groups defined benefit plans are determined in accordance with IAS 19 revised : Employee benefits using the advice of independent professionally qualified actuaries on the basis of formal actuarial valuations and using the projected unit credit method.
In line with normal practice, these valuations are undertaken triennially in the UK and annually in the US.
The valuation of the Brush UK Pension Plan was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2016, updated at 31 December 2017 by independent actuaries.
The FKI US Pension Plan valuation was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 31 December 2016, updated at 31 December 2017 by independent actuaries.
The Nortek US Pension Plan valuation was based on a full actuarial valuation as of 1 January 2017, updated at 31 December 2017 by independent actuaries.
The Group contributed 4.2 million 2016: 10.5 million to the defined benefit pension plans in the year ended 31 December 2017.
In total, the Group expects to contribute approximately 3.2 million to its defined benefit plans in the year ending 31 December 2018.
Actuarial assumptions The major assumptions used by the actuaries in calculating the Groups pension liabilities are as set out below: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 UK Plans US Plans UK Plans US Plans % p. a.
Rate of increase in salaries n a n a n a n a Rate of increase in pensions in payment 3.2 n a 3.3 n a Discount rate 2.5 3.4 2.7 3.9 RPI inflation assumption 3.2 n a 3.3 n a CPI inflation assumption 2.1 n a 2.2 n a Mortality Brush UK Pension Plan Mortality assumptions for the Brush UK Pension Plan, as at 31 December 2017 were based on the Self Administered Pension Scheme SAPS S2 base tables with a scaling factor of 110%, which reflected the results of a mortality analysis carried out on the plans membership.
Future improvements are in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation CMI improvement model with a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
The assumptions were that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 21.4 years 31 December 2016: 21.4 years if they are male and for a further 23.3 years 31 December 2016: 23.6 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2037 at age 65, the assumptions were that they will live for a further 22.8 years 31 December 2016: 22.8 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 24.8 years 31 December 2016: 25.1 years after retirement if they are female.
The mortality assumptions were consistent with those adopted for the full valuation as at 31 December 2016.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 136 Notes to the financial statements Continued 22.
Retirement benefit obligations continued FKI US Pension Plan The mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 December 2017 were set to reflect the Groups best estimate view of life expectancies of members of the pension arrangement.
Each assumption reflected the characteristics of the membership of the FKI US Pension Plan.
The assumptions were that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 19.3 years 31 December 2016: 19.9 years if they are male and for a further 21.3 years 31 December 2016: 21.9 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2037 at age 65, the assumptions were that they will live for a further 21.0 years 31 December 2016: 21.5 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 22.9 years 31 December 2016: 23.5 years after retirement if they are female.
Nortek US Pension Plan The mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 December 2017 were set to reflect the Groups best estimate view of life expectancies of members of the pension arrangement.
Each assumption reflected the characteristics of the membership of the Nortek US Pension Plan.
The assumptions were that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 19.3 years 31 December 2016: 20.2 years if they are male and for a further 21.3 years 31 December 2016: 22.3 years if they are female.
For a member who retires in 2037 at age 65, the assumptions were that they will live for a further 21.0 years 31 December 2016: 21.8 years after retirement if they are male and for a further 22.9 years 31 December 2016: 23.9 years after retirement if they are female.
The mortality assumptions were consistent with those adopted for the full valuation as at 1 January 2017.
Balance Sheet disclosures The amount recognised in the Balance Sheet arising from net liabilities in respect of defined benefit plans was as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Present value of funded defined benefit obligations 537.6 549.1 Fair value of plan assets 524.7 522.6 Funded status 12.9 26.5 Present value of unfunded defined benefit obligations 4.7 6.9 Net liabilities 17.6 33.4 The plan liabilities and assets at 31 December 2017 were as follows: UK Plans US Plans Other Plans Total m m m m Plan liabilities 288.5 252.6 1.2 542.3 Plan assets 283.0 241.1 0.6 524.7 Net liabilities 5.5 11.5 0.6 17.6 The major categories and fair values of plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Equities 230.8 152.4 Government bonds 138.3 107.1 Corporate bonds 114.0 155.0 Property 9.8 6.7 1 Other 31.8 101.4 Total 524.7 522.6 1 At 31 December 2016, 73.6 million of assets in relation to the Nortek US Plan were held in cash as they were in the process of being transferred to a new plan custodian.
The assets were well diversified and the majority of plan assets had quoted prices in active markets.
All government bonds were issued by reputable governments and were generally AA rated or higher.
Interest rate and inflation rate swaps were also employed to complement the role of fixed and index-linked bond holdings for liability risk management.
The trustees continually review whether the chosen investment strategy is appropriate with a view to providing the pension benefits and to ensure appropriate matching of risk and return profiles.
The main strategic policies included maintaining an appropriate asset mix, managing interest rate sensitivity and maintaining an appropriate equity buffer.
Investment results were regularly reviewed.
There was no self investment other than in relevant tracker funds either in the Groups own financial instruments or property or other assets used by the Group.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 137 22.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At beginning of year 556.0 360.7 Acquisition of businesses 136.3 1 Transfer to held for sale 1.3 Current service cost 0.2 0.1 Interest cost on obligations 17.2 15.4 Remeasurement gains demographic 5.8 6.1 Remeasurement losses financial 23.7 42.1 Remeasurement losses gains experience 10.2 2.8 Benefits paid out of plan assets 32.6 26.6 Benefits paid out of Group assets for unfunded plans 1.0 0.5 Currency translation differences 24.3 37.4 At end of year 542.3 556.0 1 Transferred to liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2017 in accordance with IFRS 5, subsequently disposed on 10 August 2017.
The defined benefit plan liabilities were 2% 31 December 2016: 2% in respect of active plan participants, 47% 31 December 2016: 53% in respect of deferred plan participants and 51% 31 December 2016: 45% in respect of pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit plan liabilities at 31 December 2017 was 14.8 years 31 December 2016: 14.4 years.
Movements in the fair value of plan assets during the year: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At beginning of year 522.6 343.5 Acquisition of businesses 94.1 Interest income on plan assets 16.1 14.5 Return on plan assets, excluding interest income 40.2 55.9 Contributions 3.2 10.0 Benefits paid out of plan assets 32.6 26.6 Plan administrative costs 2.3 1.9 Currency translation differences 22.5 33.1 At end of year 524.7 522.6 The actual return on plan assets was a gain of 56.3 million 2016: 70.4 million.
Income Statement disclosures Amounts recognised in the Income Statement in respect of these defined benefit plans were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Included within underlying operating profit: current service cost 0.2 0.1 plan administrative costs 2.3 1.9 Included within net finance costs: interest cost on defined benefit obligations 17.2 15.4 interest income on plan assets 16.1 14.5 Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 138 Notes to the financial statements Continued 22.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Statement of Comprehensive Income disclosures Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in respect of these defined benefit plans were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest expense 40.2 55.9 Actuarial gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions 5.8 6.1 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 23.7 42.1 Actuarial losses gains arising from experience adjustments 10.2 2.8 Net remeasurement gain on retirement benefit obligations 12.1 22.7 Risks and sensitivities The defined benefit plans expose the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, salary risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks.
A sensitivity analysis on the principal assumptions used to measure the plan liabilities at the year end was as follows: Decrease Increase increase to decrease to plan liabilities profit before tax Change in assumption m m Discount rate Increase by 0.10% 7.5 0.2 Decrease by 0.10% 8.0 0.2 1 Inflation assumption Increase by 0.10% 3.0 n a Decrease by 0.10% 3.2 n a Assumed life expectancy at age 65 rate of mortality Increase by 1 year 18.3 n a Decrease by 1 year 18.3 n a 1 The inflation sensitivity encompasses the impact on pension increases, where applicable.
The sensitivity analysis above was determined based on reasonable possible changes to the respective assumptions, while holding all other assumptions constant.
There has been no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from prior years.
The sensitivities were based on the relevant assumptions and membership profile as at 31 December 2017 and were applied to the obligations at the end of the reporting period.
Whilst the analysis does not take account of the full distribution of cash flows expected, it does provide an approximation to the sensitivity of the assumptions shown.
Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate and the sensitivity analysis presented may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the change in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 139 23.
Financial instruments and risk management The table below sets out the Groups accounting classification of each category of financial assets and liabilities and their fair values at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: Nortek Energy Central Total m m m m 31 December 2017 Financial assets Classified as loans and receivables: Cash and cash equivalents 16.3 16.3 Net trade receivables 240.9 56.7 297.6 Other receivables 15.9 7.4 23.3 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial assets 1.3 1.2 11.5 14.0 Financial liabilities Classified as amortised cost: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.6 587.5 588.1 Other financial liabilities 304.2 45.9 11.0 361.1 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial liabilities 1.0 0.3 1.3 31 December 2016 Financial assets Classified as loans and receivables: Cash and cash equivalents 42.1 42.1 Net trade receivables 259.7 70.2 0.2 330.1 Other receivables 15.5 4.9 20.4 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial assets 1.0 0.9 7.1 9.0 Financial liabilities Classified as amortised cost: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 3.3 580.3 583.6 1 Other financial liabilities 359.4 55.4 19.7 434.5 Classified as fair value: Derivative financial liabilities 1.5 1.7 1.0 4.2 1 Restated to reflect the completion of the acquisition accounting for Nortek note 11. Credit risk The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk was as follows: Nortek Energy Central Total m m m m 31 December 2017 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 16.3 16.3 Net trade receivables 240.9 56.7 297.6 Other receivables 15.9 7.4 23.3 Derivative financial assets 1.3 1.2 11.5 14.0 31 December 2016 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 42.1 42.1 Net trade receivables 259.7 70.2 0.2 330.1 Other receivables 15.5 4.9 20.4 Derivative financial assets 1.0 0.9 7.1 9.0 The Groups principal financial assets were cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, other receivables and derivative financial assets which represented the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets.
The Groups credit risk on cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial assets was limited because the counterparties were banks with strong credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies.
The Groups credit risk was primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
The amounts presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheet were net of allowances for doubtful receivables, estimated by the Groups management based on prior experience and their assessment of the current economic environment.
Note 15 provides further details regarding the recovery of trade receivables.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 140 Notes to the financial statements Continued 23.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Capital risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern.
The capital structure of the Group as at 31 December 2017 consists of net debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 18, after deducting cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising Issued share capital, Reserves and Retained earnings as disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.
Liquidity risk The Melrose Groups net debt position at 31 December 2017 was 571.8 million 31 December 2016: 541.5 million.
Melrose has a five year multi-currency US $1.25 billion committed bank facility which was entered into on 6 July 2016 to assist with the acquisition of Nortek and consists of a US $350 million term loan facility and a US $900 million revolving credit facility.
The facility has two financial covenants.
There is a net debt to underlying EBITDA underlying operating profit before depreciation and amortisation covenant and an interest cover covenant, both of which are tested half yearly, each June and December.
The first of these covenants is set at a maximum 3.5x leverage for each of the half yearly measurement dates for the remainder of the term of the facility.
For the year ended 31 December 2017 it was approximately 1.9x 31 December 2016: 1.9x, showing significant headroom compared to the covenant test.
The interest cover covenant is set at 4.0x or higher throughout the life of the facility and was 19.6x at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 20.7x, affording comfortable headroom compared to the covenant test.
At 31 December 2017 the term loan was fully drawn down and the revolving credit facility was drawn down by US $455 million, split US $274 million and 134 million.
The core currency of Nortek is US $, and debt is drawn down to protect the Melrose Group as efficiently as possible from currency fluctuations on net assets and profit.
In addition, there are a number of uncommitted overdraft, guarantee and borrowing facilities made available to the Melrose Group.
These uncommitted facilities have been lightly used.
Cash, deposits and marketable securities amounted to 16.3 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 42.1 million and are offset against gross debt of 588.1 million 31 December 2016: 583.6 million to arrive at the net debt position of 571.8 million 31 December 2016: 541.5 million.
The combination of this cash and the size of the bank facility allows the Directors to consider that the Melrose Group has sufficient access to liquidity for its current needs.
The Board takes careful consideration of counterparty risk with banks when deciding where to place Melroses cash on deposit.
Fair values The Directors consider that the financial assets and liabilities have fair values not materially different to the carrying values.
Foreign exchange contracts As at 31 December 2017, the Group held foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate expected exchange rate fluctuations on cash flows on sales to customers and purchases from suppliers.
These instruments operate as cash flow hedges unless the amounts involved are small.
The terms of the currency pairs with total principals in excess of Sterling 1.0 million equivalent were as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 31 December 2016 Average hedged Selling currency Average hedged Selling currency rate millions rate millions Sell Australian Dollar Buy Sterling AUD 1.9 GBP AUD 1.73 AUD 6.1 GBP AUD 1.74 Sell Canadian Dollar Buy US Dollar CAD 21.1 USD CAD 1.29 CAD 19.7 USD CAD 1.32 Sell Euro Buy Czech Koruna EUR 28.8 EUR CZK 26.08 EUR 31.3 EUR CZK 26.89 Sell Euro Buy Polish Zloty EUR 1.2 EUR PLN 4.33 Sell Euro Buy Sterling EUR 19.3 GBP EUR 1.11 EUR 14.4 GBP EUR 1.17 Sell Euro Buy US Dollar EUR 8.7 EUR USD 1.18 EUR 12.6 EUR USD 1.13 Sell Sterling Buy Czech Koruna GBP 1.4 GBP CZK 28.79 GBP 3.8 GBP CZK 31.95 Sell Sterling Buy Euro GBP 9.9 GBP EUR 1.13 GBP 15.3 GBP EUR 1.16 Sell Sterling Buy US Dollar GBP 6.5 GBP USD 1.31 GBP 5.0 GBP USD 1.26 Sell US Dollar Buy Canadian Dollar USD 32.7 USD CAD 1.30 USD 22.6 USD CAD 1.32 Sell US Dollar Buy Chinese Renminbi USD 165.5 USD CNY 6.76 USD 142.3 USD CNY 7.10 Sell US Dollar Buy Euro USD 2.7 EUR USD 1.12 Sell US Dollar Buy Mexican Peso USD 14.6 USD MXN 19.37 USD 14.7 USD MXN 19.69 Sell US Dollar Buy Polish Zloty USD 1.7 USD PLN 3.87 Sell US Dollar Buy Sterling USD 15.3 GBP USD 1.31 USD 15.0 GBP USD 1.34 The foreign exchange contracts all mature between January 2018 and January 2019.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2017 was a net asset of 4.5 million 31 December 2016: net liability of 2.3 million.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 141 23.
Financial instruments and risk management continued Hedge of net investments in foreign entities Included in interest-bearing loans at 31 December 2017 were the following amounts which were designated as hedges of net investments in the Groups subsidiaries in the USA and were being used to reduce the exposure to the foreign exchange risks.
Borrowings in local currency designated as hedges of net investments: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m US Dollar 461.4 590.5 Interest rate risk management The Melrose bank facility carries a cost of LIBOR plus a margin.
The Melrose Group holds interest rate swap arrangements to fix the cost of LIBOR.
The profile of the interest rate swaps has been designed to hedge, on average, 70% of the interest exposure on the projected gross debt as it reduces over the five year term.
Under the terms of these swap arrangements, the Melrose Group will pay a weighted average fixed cost of 1.0% up to 31 December 2019, and 0.9% until the remaining swaps terminate on 6 July 2021.
The margin depends on the Melrose Group leverage, and ranges from 0.85% to 2.00%: as at 31 December 2017 the margin was 1.35% 31 December 2016: 1.35%.
The interest on the swaps is payable annually in arrears on 1 July.
The bank margin is payable monthly.
The interest swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and were highly effective throughout 2017.
The fair value of the contracts at 31 December 2017 was an asset of 8.2 million 31 December 2016: 7.1 million.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis Assuming the net debt held as at the Balance Sheet date was outstanding for the whole year, a one percentage point rise in market interest rates for all currencies would increase decrease profit before tax by the following amounts: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Sterling 0.4 0.1 US Dollar 1.4 1.4 Foreign currency risk The Melrose Group trades in various countries around the world and is exposed to many different foreign currencies.
The Melrose Group therefore carries an exchange rate risk that can be categorised into three types, transaction, translation and disposal related risk.
The Board policy is designed to protect against the majority of the cash risks but not the non-cash risks.
The most common exchange rate risk is the transaction risk the Group takes when it invoices a sale in a different currency to the one in which its cost of sale is incurred.
This is addressed by taking out forward cover against approximately 60% to 80% of the anticipated cash flows over the following twelve months, placed on a rolling quarterly basis and for 100% of each material contract.
This does not eliminate the cash risk but does bring some certainty to it.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis Currency risks are defined by IFRS 7: Financial instruments: Disclosures as the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial asset or liability will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The following table details the transactional impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group operating profit caused by a 10 per cent strengthening of the US Dollar, Euro and Chinese Renminbi against Sterling compared to the year end spot rate.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular other foreign currency exchange rates, remain constant.
The Group operates in a range of different currencies, and those with a notable impact are noted here: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m US Dollar 2.1 7.4 Euro 0.5 0.6 Chinese Renminbi 1.8 1.3 The relatively high sensitivity on the US Dollar in 2016 was due to a currency swap for 55.0 million, that was put in place ahead of the prior year end, to swap excess Sterling cash in order to temporarily reduce the US Dollar debt.
Adjusting for the currency swap, the sensitivity on the US Dollar at 31 December 2016 would be a loss of 1.3 million.
This currency swap matured in 2017.
The following table details the impact of hypothetical changes in foreign exchange rates on financial assets and liabilities at the Balance Sheet date, illustrating the increase decrease in Group equity caused by a 10 per cent strengthening of the US Dollar, Euro and Chinese Renminbi against Sterling.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 142 Notes to the financial statements Continued 23.
Financial instruments and risk management continued 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m US Dollar 10.2 12.1 Euro 1.6 1.6 Chinese Renminbi 7.7 8.8 In addition, the change in equity due to a 10 per cent strengthening of the US Dollar against Sterling for the translation of net investment hedging instruments would be a decrease of 51.3 million 31 December 2016: decrease 65.6 million.
However, there would be no overall effect on equity because there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
Fair value measurements recognised in the Balance Sheet Foreign currency forward contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the contracts.
Interest rate swap contracts are measured using yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
The following table sets out the Groups assets and liabilities that are measured and recognised at fair value: 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Recurring fair value measurements m m m m m m Derivative financial assets Foreign currency forward contracts 5.8 5.8 1.9 1.9 Interest rate swaps 4.1 4.1 8.2 1.9 5.2 7.1 Total recurring financial assets 9.9 4.1 14.0 3.8 5.2 9.0 Derivative financial liabilities Foreign currency forward contracts 1.3 1.3 4.2 4.2 Total recurring financial liabilities 1.3 1.3 4.2 4.2 The fair value of these financial instruments are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices and they are therefore categorised within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy set out in IFRS 13: Fair value measurement.
The Groups policy is to recognise transfers into and out of the different fair value hierarchy levels at the date the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer to occur.
There have been no transfers between levels in the year.
Issued capital and reserves 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Share Capital m m Allotted, called-up and fully paid 1,941,200,503 31 December 2016: 1,886,746,589 ordinary shares of 48 7p each 31 December 2016: 48 7p each 133.1 129.4 12,831 31 December 2016: nil 2017 Melrose Incentive Plan Shares of 1 each 133.1 129.4 The rights of each class of share are described in the Directors Report.
On 1 June 2017 the number of ordinary shares in issue increased by 54,453,914 following the crystallisation of the Incentive Plan 2012 which increased the number of ordinary shares in issue from 1,886,746,589 to 1,941,200,503.
During the course of the year, 12,831 of the Incentive Plan 2017 options issued to the Directors and senior management were exercised and resulted in the creation of 12,831 of Incentive Shares 2017 with a nominal value of 1 each.
Translation reserve The Translation reserve contains exchange differences on the translation of subsidiaries with a functional currency other than Sterling and exchange gains or losses on the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in foreign subsidiaries.
Hedging reserve The Hedging reserve represents the cumulative fair value gains and losses on derivative financial instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting has been applied.
Merger reserve and Other reserves The Merger reserve represents the excess of fair value over nominal value of shares issued in consideration for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Other reserves comprise accumulated adjustments in respect of Group reconstructions.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Financials 143 25.
Cash flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Note m m Reconciliation of underlying operating profit to cash generated by continuing operations Underlying operating profit 6 278.4 104.1 Adjustments for: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.9 15.9 Amortisation of computer software and development costs 3.8 2.2 Restructuring costs paid and movements in provisions 73.4 37.6 Defined benefit pension contributions paid 4.2 10.5 Increase decrease in inventories 8.1 15.0 Decrease in receivables 8.1 22.5 Decrease in payables 16.1 9.3 Acquisition costs 7.6 41.3 Tax paid 15.9 5.9 Interest paid 15.6 4.5 Incentive scheme tax related payments 147.9 Net cash from operating activities 32.4 50.6 Net debt reconciliation Other Foreign 31 December non-cash exchange 31 December 2016 Cash flow movements difference 2017 m m m m m Bank borrowings 582.0 56.0 0.9 51.4 587.5 Finance leases 1.6 1.0 0.6 Gross debt 583.6 55.0 0.9 51.4 588.1 Cash 42.1 23.0 2.8 16.3 Net debt 541.5 78.0 0.9 48.6 571.8 Net debt is presented in the closing Balance Sheet at year end exchange rates.
For bank covenant testing purposes net debt is converted using average exchange rates for the year, which increases net debt at 31 December 2017 by 22.8 million 31 December 2016: decreases net debt by 51.1 million to 594.6 million 31 December 2016: 490.4 million.
Commitments and contingencies Future total minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Amounts payable: Within one year 17.8 21.9 After one year but within five years 47.8 55.1 Over five years 30.9 24.0 96.5 101.0 The Group leases properties, plant, machinery and vehicles for operational purposes.
Property leases vary in length.
Plant, machinery and vehicle leases typically run for periods of up to five years.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2017, there were commitments of 9.4 million 31 December 2016: 2.4 million relating to the acquisition of new plant and machinery.
Related parties Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
The Group did not enter into any significant transactions in the ordinary course of business with joint ventures during the current or prior year.
Sales to and purchases from Group companies are priced on an arms length basis and generally are settled on 30 day terms.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 144 Notes to the financial statements Continued 27.
Related parties continued Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related party disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual Directors is provided in the audited part of the Directors Remuneration Report on page 84.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 3.2 3.2 Share-based payments 6.6 2.7 9.8 5.9 In addition, the 2012 Incentive Plan crystallised during the year and gains attributable to the Directors amounted to 167.1 million 2016: nil.
Post Balance Sheet events On 17 January 2018 the Melrose Group announced the terms of a firm offer to acquire the entire issued share capital of GKN plc and on 1 February 2018 issued a public offer document containing the full terms and conditions of the offer.
In conjunction with this offer, the Company entered into a senior term and revolving credit facilities agreement with Lloyds Bank plc and Royal Bank of Canada as original lenders which is subject to the acquisition taking place.
The new facilities agreement provides for term facilities and revolving credit facilities in an aggregate principal amount up to 2.6 billion, US $2.0 billion and 0.5 billion.
The maturity of the facilities ranges from three years and six months to five years, after the date of the agreement of the new facility.
On 1 February 2018 Melrose announced that Brush had commenced consultations with employees in relation to restructuring its Turbogenerator business to reflect the reduced levels of activity.
These reduced levels have been caused by worldwide environmental policy which has triggered a fall in volumes in the gas turbine market of over 60% from its peak in 2011.
This restructuring involves the intended closure of the turbogenerator production facility at Ridderkerk, Netherlands and the transfer of its 4-pole turbogenerator production to the facility in Plzen, Czech Republic, while the factory in Changshu, China has already been closed.
In the UK, Brush has entered into consultation with its workforce about the future of 2-pole turbogenerator production at the Loughborough, UK facility, which accounts for approximately half the workforce at the site.
The 520-strong workforce employed at Brushs other UK sites in the transformers, switchgear and mobile generator businesses remain unaffected.
The cash cost of these restructuring items is estimated to be 40 million and is expected to be materially complete by the end of 2018.
Contingent liabilities As a result of acquisitions made by the Group, certain contingent legal and warranty liabilities were identified as part of the fair value review of the acquisition Balance Sheet.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the timing and ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has been included in the Balance Sheet where they existed at the time of acquisition and hence were recognised in accordance with IFRS 3: Business combinations.
Where a provision has been recognised, information regarding the different categories of such liabilities and the amount and timing of outflows is included within note 19.
Given the nature of the Groups business many of the Groups products have a large installed base, and any recalls or reworks related to such products could be particularly costly.
The costs of product recalls or reworks are not always covered by insurance.
Recalls or reworks may have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
The Group has contingent liabilities representing guarantees and contract bonds given in the ordinary course of business on behalf of trading subsidiaries.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
The Group does not have any other significant contingent liabilities.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
