Governance Directors responsibilities Statement of directors responsibilities in Directors responsibility statement respect of the annual report and the Each of the directors, the names of whom are set out on financialstatements pages 68 and 69 of this Integrated Report and Accounts, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: The directors are responsible for preparing the annualreport and the Group and parent company the financial statements in this Integrated Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law Accounts have been prepared in accordance with and regulations.
the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Company law requires the directors to prepare group and results of the company and the Group: and and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R prepare the group financial statements in accordance contained in the strategic report and the Directors with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and report includes a fair review of the development have elected to prepare the parent company financial and performance of the business and the position statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
of the company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Under company law the directors must not approve the and uncertainties they face.
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the The strategic report from the inside front cover to page Group and parent company and of their profit or loss 65 includes information on the Group structure, the performance of the business and the principal risks and for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are uncertainties it faces.
The financial statements on pages 132 to 210 include information on the Group and the required to: companys financial results, financial outlook, cash flow select suitable accounting policies and then apply and net debt and balance sheet positions.
Notes 22, 26, them consistently: 27, 30 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements make judgments and estimates that are reasonable include information on the Groups investments, cash and prudent: and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs exposure to interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state Pages 132 to 201 contain information on the whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have performance of the Group, its financial position, cash been followed, subject to any material departures flows, net debt position and borrowing facilities.
Further disclosed and explained in the parent company information, including financial risk management policies, financial statements: and exposures to market and credit risk and hedging activities, is given in note 31 to the financial statements.
prepare the financial statements on the going After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume expectation that the Group has adequate resources to that the Group and the parent company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable continue in business.
For this reason the directors consider it The directors are responsible for keeping adequate appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in accounting records that are sufficient to show and preparing the financial statements.
explain the parent companys transactions and disclose Directors are also required to provide a broader with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial assessment of viability over a longer period, which can be position of the parent company and enable them to found on page 92 of the Integrated Report and Accounts.
ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility The directors consider that the Integrated Report and for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and understandable and provides the information necessary detect fraud and other irregularities.
for shareholders to assess the companys performance and position, business model and strategy.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, The statement of directors responsibilities and the strategic Directors report, Directors remuneration report and report are approved by a duly authorised committee of the Corporate governance statement that comply with that board of directors on 8 March 2018 and signed on its law and those regulations.
behalf by Tim Weller, Chief Financial Officer.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information Tim Weller included on the companys website.
Legislation in the Chief Financial Officer UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in 8 March 2018 other jurisdictions.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2017 G4S plc 119
