156 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate Scheme means, should the Acquisition be implemented by way attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should of a scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the Companies Act take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank, solicitor, 2006, the scheme of arrangement between GKN plc and the accountant, fund manager or other independent financial shareholders of GKN plc to implement the Acquisition, with or adviser authorised under the Financial Services and subject to any modification, addition or condition approved or Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom imposed by the High Court of Justice of England and Wales: and or, if not, another appropriately authorised independent the Offer becoming effective means a the Acquisition becoming financial adviser.
or being declared wholly unconditional, or b if the Company elects If you have sold or otherwise transferred or sell or otherwise transfer to implement the Acquisition by way of a Scheme, the Scheme all of your shares in Melrose Industries PLC the Company, please becoming effective in accordance with its terms.
send this document, together with the accompanying form of proxy, 14.
T hat, in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the agent 2006 the Act, the directors of the Company the Directors through whom the sale or transfer was effected for delivery to the be and are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot purchaser or transferee.
shares in the Company, or to grant rights to subscribe for or to Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will convert any security into shares in the Company Rights : be held at Saddlers Hall, 40 Gutter Lane, London EC2V 6BR at 11.00 A up to an aggregate nominal amount of 44,370,297 and, a. m. on 10 May 2018 for the purposes set out below.
Resolutions 1 to subject to and conditional on the Offer becoming effective, 14 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions up to an additional aggregate nominal amount of 15 to 18 inclusive as special resolutions.
67,377,007: and Ordinary resolutions B comprising equity securities as defined in section 560 of 1.
T o receive the Companys audited financial statements for the the Act up to an aggregate nominal amount of 88,740,594 financial year ended 31 December 2017, together with the and, subject to and conditional on the Offer becoming Directors Report, Strategic Report and the Auditors Report effective, up to an additional aggregate nominal value of on those financial statements.
134,754,013 such amount or amounts to be reduced by the aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants 2.
T o approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year made under paragraph A of this resolution in connection ended 31 December 2017, as set out on pages 80 to 90 of the with an offer by way of a rights issue: Companys 2017 Annual Report.
i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 3.
T o declare a final dividend of 2.8 pence per ordinary share for be practicable to their existing holdings: and the year ended 31 December 2017. ii t o holders of other equity securities as required by the 4.
To re-elect Christopher Miller as a Director of the Company.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as 5.
To re-elect David Roper as a Director of the Company.
the Directors otherwise consider necessary, 6.
To re-elect Simon Peckham as a Director of the Company.
and so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they 7.
To re-elect Geoffrey Martin as a Director of the Company.
consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 8.
To re-elect Justin Dowley as a Director of the Company.
shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of any 9.
To re-elect Liz Hewitt as a Director of the Company.
territory or any other matter, such authorities to expire at the 10.
To re-elect David Lis as a Director of the Company.
conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of 11.
To elect Archie G. Kane as a Director of the Company.
business on 30 June 2019, but, in each case, so that the 12.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold Company may make offers or agreements before the office from the conclusion of this meeting until the conclusion authority expires which would or might require shares to be of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which allotted or Rights to be granted after the authority expires, accounts are laid.
and so that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights in pursuance of any such offer or agreement notwithstanding 13.
T o authorise the Audit Committee to determine the that the authority conferred by this resolution has expired.
remuneration of the auditor of the Company.
Special resolutions In resolutions 14 to 18 inclusive : 15.
T hat, subject to the passing of resolution 14, the Directors be Acquisition means the acquisition of all or any part of the issued and are generally empowered to allot equity securities as and to be issued share capital of GKN plc by the Company or defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the any wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, to be implemented authorities granted by resolution 14 and or to sell ordinary shares by way of the Offer or by way of Scheme, under certain held by the Company as treasury shares for cash, in each case circumstances described in the Offer Document : as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment Offer means the offer made by Melrose to acquire the entire or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: issued and to be issued share capital of GKN plc on the terms and A to the allotment of equity securities in connection with an subject to the conditions set out in the Offer Document and, where offer of equity securities but in the case of an allotment the context admits, any subsequent revision, variation, extension or pursuant to the authority granted under paragraph B of renewal of such offer including any election or alternative available resolution 14, such power shall be limited to the allotment in connection with it : of equity securities in connection with an offer by way of a Offer Document means the offer document dated 13 March 2018 rights issue only : containing among other things the terms and conditions of the Offer: Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Shareholder Information 157 i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 17.
T hat the Company be and is generally and unconditionally be practicable to their existing holdings: and authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of ordinary shares in ii t o holders of other equity securities, as required by the the capital of the Company provided that: rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as A the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares the Directors otherwise consider necessary, authorised to be purchased is 194,120,050 and, subject and so that the Directors may impose any limits or to and conditional on the Offer becoming effective, an restrictions and make any arrangements which they additional 294,774,404 ordinary shares: consider necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, B the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, share is the nominal value of an ordinary share at the time any territory or any other matter: and of such purchase: C t he maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary B to the allotment otherwise than in circumstances set out in share is not more than the higher of: paragraph A of this resolution of equity securities pursuant to the authority granted by paragraph A of resolution 14 i 1 05% of the average of the middle-market quotation for or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List 6,655,545 and, subject to and conditional on the Offer of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days becoming effective, up to an additional nominal amount immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary of 10,106,551, share is purchased: and such powers to expire at the conclusion of the Companys ii t he higher of the price of the last independent trade next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed and the highest current independent bid on the trading or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2019, but, venue where the purchase is carried out, in each case, in each case, so that the Company may make offers or exclusive of expenses: agreements before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and or treasury D this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the shares sold after the power expires and so that the Companys next Annual General Meeting after this Directors may allot equity securities and or sell treasury resolution is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement on 30 June 2019: notwithstanding that the power conferred by this authority E t he Company may make a contract of purchase of ordinary has expired.
shares under this authority which would or might be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority, 16.
T hat, subject to the passing of resolution 14 and in addition to and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance any power granted under resolution 15, the Directors be and of any such contract: and are generally empowered to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authorities F a ny ordinary shares purchased pursuant to this authority granted by resolution 14 and or to sell ordinary shares held by may either be held as treasury shares or cancelled by the Company as treasury shares for cash, in each case as if the Company, depending on which course of action is section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or considered by the Directors to be in the best interests sale, provided that this power shall be: of shareholders at the time.
A limited to the allotment of equity securities pursuant to the 18.
T hat a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting authority granted by sub paragraph A of resolution 14 may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
or sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 6,655,545 and, subject to and conditional on the Offer Recommendation becoming effective, up to an additional nominal amount The Board believes that each of the resolutions to be proposed at of 10,106,551: and the Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Directors B used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if unanimously recommend that ordinary shareholders vote in favour the authority is to be used within six months of the original of all of the resolutions proposed, as the Directors intend to do in transaction a transaction which the Directors determine respect of their own beneficial holdings.
to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying By order of the Board Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice of the Annual General Meeting, s uch powers to expire at the conclusion of the Companys next Annual General Meeting after this resolution is passed or, Jonathon Crawford if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2019, but, in each Company Secretary case, so that the Company may make offers or agreements 10 April 2018 before the power expires which would or might require equity securities to be allotted and or treasury shares sold after Registered Office: the power expires and so that the Directors may allot equity 11th Floor The Colmore Building securities and or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any 20 Colmore Circus Queensway such offer or agreement notwithstanding that the power Birmingham conferred by this authority has expired.
West Midlands B4 6AT Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 158 Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions Resolution 11 Election of Director Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive are proposed as ordinary resolutions, In accordance with the Articles, Archie G. Kane is standing for which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more election as a Director of the Company following his appointment than half the votes cast must be cast in favour of the resolution.
to the Board with effect from 5 July 2017.
Biographical details Resolutions 15 to 18 inclusive are proposed as special resolutions, for Archie G. Kane can be found on page 63 of the 2017 which means that for each of those resolutions to be passed, Annual Report.
at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be cast in favour Resolution 12 Re-appointment of auditor of the resolution.
The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general Resolution 1 Receipt of 2017 Annual Report meeting at which accounts are laid before shareholders, to hold and financial statements office until the next such meeting.
The Directors are required to lay the Companys financial The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, performance, statements, the Strategic Report and the Directors and auditors independence and objectivity of the existing external auditor, reports on those financial statements collectively, the 2017 Annual Deloitte LLP, on behalf of the Board, and concluded that the Report before shareholders each year at the Annual General external auditor was in all respects effective.
This resolution proposes the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP until Resolution 2 Approval of Directors remuneration report the conclusion of the next AGM.
The Directors remuneration report the Directors Remuneration Report is presented in two sections: Resolution 13 Authority to agree auditors remuneration This resolution seeks authority for the Audit Committee to the annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
Committee: and Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares the annual report on remuneration.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Directors The annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration the authority to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights Committee, set out on pages 80 to 82 of the 2017 Annual Report, to subscribe for or convert any securities into shares in the summarises, for the year ended 31 December 2017, the major Company Rights, pursuant to section 551 of the Act Section decisions taken on Directors remuneration, any substantial 551 authority.
The authority contained in paragraph A of the changes relating to Directors remuneration made during the year resolution will be limited to an aggregate nominal amount of and the context in which those changes occurred and decisions 44,370,297, being approximately one-third of the Companys that have been taken.
issued ordinary share capital as at 9 April 2018 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice and, subject The annual report on remuneration, set out on pages 80 to 90 to and conditional on the Offer becoming effective, an additional of the 2017 Annual Report, provides details of the remuneration aggregate nominal amount of 67,377,007, being an amount which, paid to Directors in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017, when aggregated with 44,370,297, provides an authority in including base salary, taxable benefits, short-term incentives, respect of one-third of the Companys expected issued ordinary long-term incentives vested in the year, pension-related benefits, share capital following the Acquisition.
any other items in the nature of remuneration and any sum s recovered or withheld during the year in respect of amounts paid In line with guidance issued by the Investment Association, in earlier years.
paragraph B of this resolution would give the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company or grant Rights in connection with The Directors Remuneration Report is subject to an annual a rights issue up to aggregate nominal amount of 88,740,594, advisory shareholder vote by way of an ordinary resolution.
representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued Resolution 2 is to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
ordinary share capital as at 9 April 2018, and, subject to and Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend conditional on the Offer becoming effective, an additional The Board is recommending, and shareholders are being asked aggregate nominal amount of 134,754,013, being an amount to approve, the declaration of a final dividend of 2.8p per ordinary which, when aggregated with 88,740,594, provides an authority share for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The final dividend in respect of two-thirds of the Companys expected issued ordinary will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 21 May 2018 to share capital following the Acquisition.
This resolution provides the holders of ordinary shares whose names are recorded on the that such amounts, when aggregated, shall be reduced by the register of members of the Company at the close of business on aggregate nominal amount of any allotments or grants under 6 April 2018. paragraph A.
Resolutions 4 to 10 inclusive Re-election of Directors The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the If approved, the Section 551 authority shall, unless renewed, Code and the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, revoked or varied by the Company, expire at the end of the every Director will stand for re-election at the AGM with the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, exception of Archie G. Kane, who is standing for election.
at the close of business on 30 June 2019.
The exception to this Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 62 is that the Directors may allot shares or grant Rights after the to 63 of the 2017 Annual Report.
All of the non-executive Directors authority has expired in connection with an offer or agreement standing for re-election are currently considered independent made or entered into before the authority expired.
The Directors under the Code.
have no present intention to exercise the Section 551 authority.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Shareholder Information 159 Explanatory notes to the proposed resolutions The maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share will be an amount which is not more than the higher of: i 5% above continued the average of the middle market quotation for an ordinary share as Resolutions 15 to 16 Partial disapplication derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange of pre-emption rights for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which These resolutions seek shareholder approval to grant the Directors the ordinary share is purchased: and ii the higher of the price of the power to allot equity securities of the Company pursuant to the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid sections 570 and 573 of the Act the Section 570 and 573 power on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out in each without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to case, exclusive of expenses.
If approved, the authority shall, unless varied, revoked or renewed, The power is limited to allotments for cash in connection with expire at the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution pre-emptive offers, subject to any arrangements that the Directors is passed or, if earlier, at the close of business on 30 June 2019. consider appropriate to deal with fractions and overseas The Directors have no present intention of exercising all or any of requirements and otherwise for cash up to a maximum nominal the powers conferred by this resolution and will only exercise their value of 13,311,090, representing approximately 10% of the authority if it is in the interests of shareholders generally.
Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 6 April 2017 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice and, Resolution 18 Notice period for general meetings subject to and conditional on the Offer becoming effective, up other than AGMs to an additional nominal value of 20,213,102, being an amount This resolution seeks shareholder approval to allow the Company which, when aggregated with 13,311,090, provides an authority to continue to call general meetings other than AGMs on 14 clear in respect of 10% of the Companys expected issued ordinary days notice.
In accordance with the Act, as amended by the share capital following the Acquisition.
Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009, the notice period required for general meetings of the Company is 21 days The Directors intend to adhere to the guidelines set out in the unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period subject to a Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles as updated in minimum period of 14 clear days.
In accordance with the Act, the March 2015 and not to allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive Company must make a means of electronic voting available to all basis pursuant to a relevant authority in resolutions 15 or 16: shareholders for that meeting in order to be able to call a general in excess of an amount equal to 5% of the Companys issued meeting on less than 21 clear days notice.
ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares in any The Company intends to only use the shorter notice period where one-year period, whether or not in connection with an this flexibility is merited by the purpose of the meeting and is acquisition or specified capital investment: or considered to be in the interests of shareholders generally, and in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the Companys issued not as a matter of routine.
AGMs will continue to be held on at least ordinary share capital in a rolling three-year period, 21 clear days notice.
in each case other than in connection with an acquisition or specified The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
the allotment or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
If approved, the Section 570 and 573 power shall apply until the end of the Companys next AGM after the resolution is passed or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2019.
The exception to this is that the Directors may allot equity securities after the power has expired in connection with an offer or agreement made or entered into before the power expired.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise the Section 570 and 573 power.
Resolution 17 Authority to purchase own shares This resolution seeks shareholder approval to grant the Company the authority to purchase its own shares pursuant to sections 693 and 701 of the Act.
This authority is limited to an aggregate maximum number of 194,120,050 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 9 April 2018 and, subject to and conditional on the Offer becoming effective, an additional 294,774,404 ordinary shares, being an amount which, when aggregated with 194,120,050 ordinary shares, provides an authority in respect of 10% of the Companys expected issued ordinary share capital following the Acquisition.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 160 Notice of Annual General Meeting Continued Explanatory notes as to the proxy, voting and 7.
I n order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message attendance procedures at the Annual General a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Meeting AGM in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds 1.
T he holders of ordinary shares in the Company are entitled to specifications, and must contain the information required for attend the AGM and are entitled to vote.
A member entitled to such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The attend, speak and vote at the AGM is also entitled to appoint message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment a proxy to exercise all or any of his her rights to attend, speak of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a and vote at the AGM in his her place.
Such a member may previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares.
For this purpose, the time of A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time 2.
A f orm of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
To be effective, a stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host form of proxy must be completed and returned, together with from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message any power of attorney or authority under which it is completed by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
or a certified copy of such power or authority, so that it is After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed received by the Companys registrars at the address specified through CREST should be communicated to the appointee on the form of proxy not less than 48 hours excluding any part through other means.
of a day that is not a working day before the stated time for 8.
C REST members and, where applicable, their CREST holding the meeting or, in the event of an adjournment, not sponsors, or voting service providers should note that less than 48 hours before the stated time of the adjourned Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special meeting excluding any part of a day which is not a working procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Returning a completed form of proxy will not preclude system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
A ny person to whom this notice is sent who is a person of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST nominated under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information member is a CREST Personal Member, or sponsored member, rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was her CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 2 and timings.
opposite does not apply to Nominated Persons.
T he Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction described in paragraphs 1 and 2 can only be exercised by in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the the holders of ordinary shares in the Company.
T o be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the 10.
A ny corporation which is a member can appoint one or more purposes of the determination by the Company of the number corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in Companys register of members by 6.30 p. m. on 8 May 2018 relation to the same shares.
or, in the event of an adjournment, on the date which is two days, excluding any day which is not a working day, before 11.
U nder section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold the time of the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on requirements set out in that section have the right to require the register of members after this time shall be disregarded the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts the meeting.
including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance 5.
A s at 9 April 2018 being the last business day prior to the connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold publication of this notice, the Companys issued share capital office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts consists of 1,941,200,503 ordinary shares of 48 7p each, and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of carrying one vote each.
The Company may not require the shareholders 6.
C REST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Company is required to place a statement on a website under Manual available at www.
CREST Personal section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, statement available on the website.
The business which may should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action Company has been required under section 527 of the Act on their behalf.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017 Shareholder Information 161 Explanatory notes as to the proxy, voting and attendance procedures at the Annual General Meeting AGM continued 12.
A ny member holding ordinary shares attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such questions relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: and or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
V oting at the AGM will be by poll.
The Chairman will invite each shareholder, corporate representative and proxy present at the meeting to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
In addition, the Chairman will cast the votes for which he has been appointed as proxy.
Poll cards will be collected during the meeting.
Once the results have been verified by the Companys registrar, Equiniti, they will be notified to the UK Listing Authority, announced through a Regulatory Information Service and will be available to view on the Companys website.
A c opy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Act, can be found at www.
Y ou may not use an electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
T he following documents will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this notice until the date of the AGM and at the place of the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting: A copies of all service agreements under which Directors of the Company are employed by the Company or any subsidiaries: and B a copy of the terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors of the Company.
Y ou may register your vote online by visiting Equinitis website at www.
In order to register your vote online, you will need to enter the Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are set out on the enclosed form of proxy.
The return of the form of proxy by post or registering your vote online will not prevent you from attending the AGM and voting in person, should you wish.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio at www.
co. uk using your usual user ID and password.
Once logged in simply click View on the My Investments page, click on the link to vote then follow the on screen instructions.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 11.00 a. m. on 8 May 2018.
Melrose Industries PLC Annual Report 2017
