26 July 2018 Half-year results announced via the Regulatory News Service and on the Companys website.
Since 2015 half-year results are available online only.
Dividend payment dates 24 November 2017 An interim cash dividend of 4.0 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence each was paid to shareholders registered at the close of business on 3 November 2017.
25 May 2018 Subject to shareholders approval at the 2018 AGM, a final cash dividend of 7.0 pence per Ordinary share of 25 pence each will be paid to shareholders registered at the close of business on 4 May 2018.
29 March 2018 and 1 October 2018 Dividend payment dates in respect of the 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each and the 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each.
176 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other information The market values of quoted shares and stocks at 31 March 1982 were: Capital gains tax Ordinary shares of 25 pence each 122.5 pence 5.5% Cumulative First Preference shares of 1 each 30.5 pence 5.0% Cumulative Second Preference shares of 1 each 28.5 pence For capital gains tax purposes, the cost of Ordinary shares is adjusted to take account of rights issues.
Any capital gains arising on disposal will also be adjusted to take account of indexation allowances.
Since the adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional advisers.
The price can be obtained on the Companys website: www.
com Share price GB0006027295 ISIN Code I4K14LL95N2PHDL7EG85 LEI MGAM Ticker symbol Company details The Company changed its name to Morgan Advanced Materials plc from The Morgan Crucible Company plc Company name change on 27 March 2013.
Following this change, share certificates issued in the name The Morgan Crucible Company plc remain valid replacement share certificates in the name Morgan Advanced Materials plc were not issued to existing shareholders.
Quadrant, 55-57 High Street, Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Registered office Registered in England and Wales No.
com The Companys website provides information about the Group including the markets in which it operates, its Website strategy and recent news from the Group.
The Investors section is a key source of information for shareholders, containing details of financial results, shareholder meetings and dividends, and providing access to frequently asked questions.
Current and past annual, half-year and EHS reports are also available to view and download.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 177 Financial Statements Shareholder information continued Company details Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU Company registrars Telephone in the UK : 0871 664 0300 Telephone from outside the UK : 44 0 371 664 0300 Email: enquiries@linkgroup.
com shareholders Calls cost 12 pence per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 9am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Shareholders with queries relating to their shareholding should contact Link directly.
Alternatively, shareholders may find the Investors section of our website useful for general enquiries.
The Signal shares share portal is a secure online site where you can manage your shareholding quickly and easily, Share portal reducing the need for paperwork and providing 24-hour access for your convenience.
Through Signal shares you www.
com can view your holding and get an indicative valuation, change your address, arrange to have dividends paid into your bank account and view your dividend payment history.
You will need your investor code, which can be found on your share certificate or your dividend confirmation statement.
You can choose to receive your dividend in a number of ways.
Dividends will automatically be paid to you Dividend payments by cheque and sent to your registered address unless you have chosen one of the options below: Cash dividends can be paid directly to a UK bank or building society account.
This means that your dividend Direct payment to your bank reaches your bank account on the payment date, it is more secure cheques can sometimes get lost in the post, you avoid the inconvenience of depositing a cheque and cheque fraud is reduced.
If you have a UK bank account you can sign up for this service on the share portal at www.
com by clicking on Manage your account and then Payment preferences and following the on-screen instructions, or by contacting Link.
If you live outside the UK, Link has partnered with Deutsche Bank to provide you with a service that will convert International payments service your sterling dividends into your local currency at a competitive rate.
You can choose to receive payment directly into your local bank account or, alternatively, you can be sent a currency draft.
You can sign up for this service on the share portal at www.
For further information contact Link by telephone on 44 0 371 664 0300, or by email at ips@linkgroup.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
178 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2017 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Company details If a shareholder receives two or more sets of AGM documents, this means that there is more than one account Multiple accounts on the in their name on the shareholder register, perhaps because the name or the address appears on each account shareholder register in a slightly different way.
If you have multiple accounts and would like them to be combined, please contact Link Asset Services, as detailed above under the heading Company registrars.
Link Asset Services provides a simple and competitively priced service to buy and sell shares.
There is no Buying and selling shares need to pre-register and there are no complicated application forms to complete.
For more information, visit www.
Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
This is not a recommendation to buy or sell shares and this service may not be suitable for all shareholders.
The price of shares can go down as well as up and you are not guaranteed to get back the amount you originally invested.
Terms, conditions and risks apply.
Link Asset Services is a trading name of Link Market Services Trustees Limited, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
This service is only available to private shareholders resident in the European Economic Area, the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man.
If you have only a small number of shares which are uneconomical to sell, you may wish to consider donating Donate your shares to charity them to charity, free of charge, through ShareGift registered charity 1052686, a charity that specialises in the donation of small, unwanted shareholdings to good causes.
You can find out more by visiting www.
Shareholders in companies may receive unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment Unsolicited telephone matters.
If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted shares, a premium price for shares you own, calls and mail or free company or research reports, please check the company or person contacting you is properly authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority before getting involved.
Further information about what you should do is available on our website in the Shareholder Centre within the Investors section.
Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials 179 This Report has been printed in the UK.
Our printers are environmental management system ISO 14001-accredited and Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain of custody-certified.
All inks used are vegetable-based.
This paper is environmentally friendly ECF elemental chlorine-free and wood-free with a high content of selected pre-consumer recycled material.
The mill is fully FSC-certified.
The paper is also completely bio-degradable and recyclable.
If you have finished reading this Report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, return it to Morgan Advanced Materials or dispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
This Annual Report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com Morgan Advanced Materials plc Annual Report 2017 Morgan Advanced Materials plc Quadrant, 55-57 High Street Windsor, Berkshire SL4 1LP Tel: 44 0 1753 837000 Fax: 44 0 1753 850872 www.
