Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Forming Part of the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting Policies Basis of Preparation Cineworld Group plc the Company is a company incorporated in the UK.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK standards including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: these are presented on pages 124 to 131.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all years presented in these Group financial statements.
Information regarding the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position is set out in the Chief Executive Officers Review on pages 10 and 11 and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on pages 18 to 22.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 26 to 29.
In addition Note 21 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Going Concern At the year end the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank loan, which consisted of a term loan and a revolving facility see Note 16 to the financial statements.
As a result of the Regal acquisition, on 28 February 2018 the Group restructured its debt arrangements.
The previous financing arrangements in place as at 31 December 2017 for the Group and Regal Entertainment Group were terminated and superseded with the new financing arrangements for the enlarged Group which consist of a USD and Euro term loan totalling $4.1bn and a $300.0m revolving credit facility.
The revolving credit facility is subject to springing covenants which are triggered above 35% utilisation.
The enlarged Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that theenlarged Group should be able to operate within the level of its new facilities for at least 12 months from the approval date of the financial statements, including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
The Group therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis.
Measurement Convention The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis except that the following assets and liabilities are stated at their fair value: derivative financial instruments and financial instruments classified as fair value through the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income or as available for sale.
Basis of Consolidation Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on which control commences until the date on which control ceases.
Jointly Controlled Entities Equity Accounted Investees Jointly controlled entities are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, established by contractual agreement and requiring the venturers unanimous consent for strategic financial and operating decisions.
Jointly controlled entities are accounted for using the equity method equity accounted investees and are initially recognised at cost.
The Groups investment includes goodwill identified on acquisition, net of any accumulated impairment losses.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised income and expense and equity movements of equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of an investee.
Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Groups interest in the investee.
Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
84 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1.
Accounting Policies continued Use of non-GAAP Profit and Loss Measures The Group believes that along with operating profit, the following measures provide additional guidance to the statutory measures of the performance of the business during the financial year: EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted profit after tax The Group defines EBITDA as Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA is considered a consistent measure of the trading performance at a CGU level.
The Group defines Adjusted EBITDA as reported in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss as Operating profit before depreciation and amortisation, onerous leases and other non-cash items, impairments and reversals of impairments, transaction and reorganisation costs, gains and losses on disposals of assets and subsidiaries and the settlement of the defined benefit pension liability.
Adjusted EBITDA is considered an accurate and consistent measure of the Groups trading performance, items adjusted to arrive at Adjusted EBITDA are considered to be outside the Groups ongoing trading activities.
Adjusted profit before tax is calculated by adding back amortisation of intangible assets excluding acquired movie distribution rights, and certain non cash items and foreign exchange as set out in Note 5.
Adjusted profit before tax is an internal measure used by management, as they believe it better reflects the underlying performance of the Group and therefore a more meaningful comparison of performance from period to period.
Adjusted profit after tax is arrived at by applying the relevant effective tax rate to taxable adjustments and deducting the total from adjusted profit before tax.
Foreign Currency Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Balance Sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the Balance Sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the year where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Cash Flow Hedges and Interest Swap Policy Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income except where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the Balance Sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is their quoted market price at the Balance Sheet date, being the present value of the quoted forward price.
Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
For cash flow hedges, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
85 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in equity and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income immediately.
Net Investment Hedge The Group uses net investment hedges to mitigate translation exposure on certain net investments in subsidiary companies.
Changes in the fair values of hedging instruments are taken directly to the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income together with gains or losses on the foreign currency translation of the hedged investments.
Until the investment is disposed all of these gains or losses are recognised in equity, within the hedging reserve.
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity, trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, interest-bearing borrowings, and trade and other payables.
Trade and Other Receivables Trade and other receivables are initially measured at fair value.
Subsequently they are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses.
A bad debt allowance for receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the Statement of Cash Flows.
Trade and Other Payables Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value.
They are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest-Bearing Borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are initially measured at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
They are subsequently carried at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Leases in which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as finance leases.
Where land and buildings are held under finance leases the accounting treatment of the land is considered separately from that of the buildings.
Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
All other leases are operating leases.
These leased assets are not recognised in the Groups Balance Sheet.
Depreciation is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income to write assets down to their residual values on a straightline basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Land and buildings: freehold properties 50 years Land and buildings: long leasehold properties including leasehold improvements life of lease Land and buildings: short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements 30 years or life of lease if shorter Plant and machinery 3 to 16 years Fixtures and fittings 3 to 16 years No depreciation is provided on land, assets held for sale or assets in the course of construction.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation methods, residual values and the useful lives of all assets are reassessed annually.
86 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1.
Accounting Policies continued Business Combinations For acquisitions on or after 1 January 2010, the Group measures goodwill as the fair value of the consideration transferred including the fair value of any previously held equity interest in the acquiree and the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount generally fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of the acquisition date.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with business combinations are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Identifiable intangibles are those which can be sold separately or which arise from legal rights regardless of whether those rights are separable.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Distribution rights that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged to the Statement of Profit or Loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life and goodwill are systematically tested for impairment at each Balance Sheet date.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Distribution rights are amortised by film title from the date of release of the film, at 50% in the first year of release and 25% in each of the two subsequent years.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Brands 10 to 20 years Distribution rights 3 years Other intangibles 5 to 10 years Non-Current Assets Held for Sale A non-current asset or a group of assets containing a non-current asset a disposal group is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use, it is available for immediate sale and sale is highly probable within one year.
On initial classification as held for sale, non-current assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell with any adjustments taken to the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The same applies to gains and losses on subsequent remeasurement although gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss.
Any impairment loss on a disposal group is first allocated to goodwill, and then to remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred tax assets, employee benefit assets and investment property, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment once classified as held for sale or distribution are not amortised or depreciated.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is based on the First-In, First-Out FIFO principle.
Cost comprises expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition, and net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated selling costs.
Impairment The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each Balance Sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
For goodwill assets that have an indefinite useful economic life, the recoverable amount is estimated at each Balance Sheet date.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to CGUs and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other intangible assets in the unit onapro rata basis.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Calculation of Recoverable Amount The recoverable amount is the greater of the assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
87 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Reversals of Impairment An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment is reversed when there is an indication that the impairment loss may no longer exist as aresult of a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount, including a change in fair value less costs to sell.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
Employee Benefits Defined Contribution Pension Plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Profit or Loss as incurred.
Defined Benefit Pension Plans The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in the current and prior years, discounting that amount and deducting the fair value ofany plan assets.
The calculation of defined benefit obligations is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
When the calculation results in a potential asset for the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Tocalculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any applicable minimum funding requirements.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if any, excluding interest, are recognised immediately in the Statement ofOther Comprehensive Income.
The Group determines the net interest expense income on the net defined benefit liability asset for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual year to the then-net defined benefit liability asset, taking into account any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the year as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
Net interest expense and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
When the benefits of a plan are changed or when a plan is curtailed, the resulting change in benefit that relates to past service orthe gain or loss on curtailment is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
Share-Based Payment Transactions The share option programme allows Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date using the Black-Scholes model and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest except where forfeiture is due only to share prices not achieving the threshold for vesting.
Share appreciation rights are also granted by the Group to employees.
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities.
The fair value is initially measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The fair value of the share appreciation rights is measured taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
The liability is remeasured at each Balance Sheet date and at settlement date and any changes in fair value are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Government Grants Government grants are recognised initially as deferred income at fair value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant.
They are then recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss as other income on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset to which they relate.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the Balance Sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Own Shares Held by Employee Benefit Trust EBT Transactions of the Group sponsored EBT are included in the Group financial information.
In particular, the trusts purchase of shares in the Company are debited directly to equity.
88 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1.
Accounting Policies continued Revenue Revenue represents the total amount receivable for goods sold, excluding sales related taxes and intra-group transactions.
Allthe Groups revenue is received from the sale of goods and services: Box office revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to.
Concessions revenue is recognised at point of sale.
Advertising revenue is recognised over the period the advertisement is shown in cinemas.
Distribution revenue is recognised on the date of the showing of the film it relates to for cinema distribution, for other media the revenue is recognised over the life of the distribution contract.
Unlimited card revenue is received annually or monthly in advance.
When revenue from the Unlimited card is received annually in advance it is recognised on a straight-line basis over the year.
Monthly Unlimited card revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates.
Given the nature of the Groups revenue streams recognition of revenue is not considered to be a significant area of judgement.
Other Operating Income Other income represents rent receivable and profit on disposals of fixed assets.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Expenses Operating Lease Payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss.
Lease incentives received are recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term in the Statement of Profit or Loss as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Where the Group has operating leases that contain minimum guaranteed rental uplifts over the life of the lease, the Group recognises the guaranteed minimum lease payment on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Finance Lease Payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability.
The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Net Financing Costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, amortisation of financing costs, unwind of discount on property provisions, finance lease interest, net gain loss on remeasurement of interest rate swaps, interest receivable on funds invested, foreign exchange gains and losses and finance costs for defined benefit pension schemes.
Sale and Leaseback Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned have not been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is deferred and recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss over the lease term.
At the date of the transaction the assets and the associated finance lease liabilities on the Groups Balance Sheet are stated at the lower of fair value of the leased assets and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Where the Group enters into a sale and leaseback transaction whereby the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets concerned have been substantially transferred to the lessor, any excess of sales proceeds over the previous carrying amount is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss on completion of the transaction, when the sale and subsequent leaseback has been completed at fair value.
Taxation Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the Balance Sheet method, providing temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the Balance Sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
89 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued Operating Segments An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Groups other components.
An operating segments operating results are reviewed regularly by the Board of Directors to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Significant Accounting Judgements and Estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next financial year are set out below.
Judgements The key judgements are: Business Combinations When the Group undertakes a business combination, there are specific judgements which need to be made in respect of the acquisition accounting.
This includes determining the fair value of the acquired total net identifiable assets, with particular reference to intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, acquired leases and any required provisions.
Details of the acquisition undertaken by the Group during the year, including the specific judgements taken, are set out in Note 15.
Finance and Operating Leases When the Group enters into a new lease it is required to consider whether it bears substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset.
The Group considers the requirements of IAS 17 Leases when determining whether it has an operating or finance lease.
For the majority of the Groups leases the determinations are straight forward and the material judgements only relate to a few lease arrangements.
There are some instances within the Group where the lease arrangements can be up to 99 years in length and therefore a judgement has to be made as to whether the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the asset where the asset is not transferred at the end of the lease.
In addition for these leases, calculations have to be undertaken to ascertain whether, at inception of the lease, the present value of the minimum lease payments represent substantially all of the fair value of the leased asset.
Determining the present value of the lease payments and the fair value of the leased asset requires elements of estimation and judgement in respect of the forward-looking discount rate and assessing if extension options are likely to be exercised in the lease contract.
The outcome of whether a lease is an operating or a finance lease can have a material impact on the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The right of use asset and the finance lease liability on an individual lease could be a material asset based on a long lease and average annual rents.
The Group is not intending to early adopt the new lease accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leasing, which will be effective from 1 January 2019.
Estimates Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised and in any future years affected.
In applying the Groups accounting policies described above the Directors have identified that the following areas are the key estimates that have a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Impairment of Goodwill The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
This requires an estimate of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill is allocated.
To estimate the value in use, the Group estimates the expected future cash flows from the CGU and discounts them to their present value at a determined discount rate, which isappropriate for the territory where the goodwill is allocated to.
Forecasting expected cash flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate inherently requires estimation.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 10.
The resulting calculation is sensitive to the assumptions in respect of future cash flows and the discount rate applied.
The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the CGUs, and that the discount rate used is appropriate given the risks associated with thespecific cash flows.
Although based on the sensitivity analysis performed there is no impairment charge to goodwill, it is considered appropriate to disclose this as an area of significant estimation due to the size of the balance and the fact that it could change as a result of future events.
90 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1.
Accounting Policies continued Impairment of Tangible Fixed Assets The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairments exist or based on the annual impairment assessment.
The annual assessment requires an estimate of the value in use of the CGUs to which the tangible fixed assets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual cinema site level.
Where individual sites: cash flows are not considered independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one site, they may be combined into a single CGU.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cinema and discount these to their net present value at a discount rate which is appropriate for the territory where the assets areheld.
The Directors consider that the assumptions made represent their best estimate of the future cash flows generated by the CGUs, and that the discount rates used are appropriate given the risks associated with the specific cash flows.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed over the estimates see Note 9.
Tax In determining the income tax assets and liabilities recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Group is required to estimate the outcome of multiple tax years remaining open to tax authority audit in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group has companies.
The key judgement area for tax is the pricing of cross-border transactions between Group companies, in each of the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In most countries transfer pricing law requires that taxable profits reflect arms length pricing of intra-group transactions.
Determining the arms length price of a transaction and the likelihood of challenge by local tax authorities is inherently subjective.
In making estimates for tax provisioning purposes management make use of in-house tax expertise, comparable third party studies prepared by professional advisors and any other information available.
In the event of an audit the Group may liaise with the relevant taxation authorities to agree an outcome.
The tax liability provided for each tax year and jurisdiction is reassessed in each period to reflect our best estimate of the probable outcome in light of all the information available.
A final position agreed with a tax authority or through expiry of a tax audit period could differ from the estimates made by us which would impact the current tax liability of 21.3m 2016: 10.5m recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Currently there are no significant ongoing tax audits.
Should a tax audit commence this would give additional visibility over maximum potential exposures as the tax authorities own position becomes clearer.
Such developments would then further inform our best estimate in line with the approach above.
Conversely should tax audit windows close without audits commencing this would enable tax provisions to be released.
The amount of the current tax liability subject to significant uncertainty is 7.0m, being the reduction in the liability if all filed returns are agreed without adjustment.
Conversely the liability may increase due to the outcome of tax audits or changes in our assessment.
Five years of tax returns remain open to audit across multiple jurisdictions.
Deferred taxes are recognised in respect of temporary differences between the tax treatment and treatment within the financial statements for assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent they are expected to be recovered.
Recoverability is assessed on an ongoing basis.
Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively enacted rate which is expected to apply in the period the asset or liability is expected to be realised.
Although the deferred tax asset recognised may not be material, there is still estimation involved in those potential tax assets which remain unrecognised.
The nature and amounts of unrecognised potential tax assets are disclosed in Note 8 and these are material for the Group.
Although the Group does not believe that there is a significant risk of a material adjustment to deferred tax assets within the next financial year, there is a significant uncertainty existing at each year end and therefore the Groups overall tax position could change within the next 12 months.
91 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Accounting Policies continued New Standards and Interpretations The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations were adopted for the year ended 31 December 2017 and have not had a material impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group: Annual improvements to IFRSs Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions amendments to IFRS 2 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments The Group is currently assessing the impact of the following standards and interpretations which have been issued but are not effective for the year ended 31 December 2017.
These standards and interpretations have not been adopted early.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leasing At 31 December 2017 an initial impact assessment has been performed in respect of IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16.
In respect of IFRS 15 a review has been undertaken of the key revenue streams within the Group.
For each of the revenue streams the five-step model under IFRS 15 has been applied to assess how the revenue stream should be recognised and whether this will result in a material change from the approach currently applied by the Group.
A summary of the expected impact is outlined below for each of the Groups key revenue streams: Box office revenue no changes are expected.
Concessions revenue no changes are expected.
Advertising revenue the analysis is currently being finalised: however, analysis to date suggests no material changes areexpected.
Distribution revenue the analysis is currently being finalised: however, analysis to date suggests no material changes areexpected.
Membership revenue the analysis is currently being finalised: however, analysis to date suggests no material changes areexpected.
Other income no changes are expected.
On adoption of IFRS 9 this is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups current accounting in respect of financial instruments: however, it is expected there will be changes in the disclosure requirements.
A review has been performed against IFRS 9 to assess the definitions and accounting treatment for financial assets, financial liabilities, fair value accounting, impairments of financial assets and hedge accounting.
Particular focus was given to the Groups interest rate swaps, loans and financial liabilities, hedge accounting, receivables and payables balances.
The adoption of IFRS 16 is expected to materially affect the Groups lease accounting and financial statements.
One of the first considerations is the transition method which the Group should adopt.
There are three options: fully retrospective: modified: and modified retrospective.
Each option has a slightly different impact on the financial statements on the initial transition date and going forward.
Initial assessments have been undertaken for each of these options based on a sample of leases and management are in the process of concluding which will be the transition method selected.
From the initial analysis performed the Groups profit after tax, operating profit, finance costs EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA will be materially affected by the adoption of IFRS 16.
The Groups finance costs and depreciation charge will materially increase: however, the rental charge for leases classified as finance leases under IFRS 16, which will substantially be all of the Groups property leases, will no longer be recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Groups Statement of Financial Position will be materially impacted in respect of total assets, total liabilities, net debt and equity.
For all leases which fall under the scope of IFRS 16 a right of use asset and related lease liability will be recognised in the Statement of Financial Position.
92 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2.
Operating Segments The Group has determined that is has two operating segments: UK and Ireland and Rest of the World ROW.
The results for the UK and Ireland include the two cinema chain brands, Cineworld and Picturehouse, and for the ROW they include the cinema chain brands Cinema City in Central and Eastern Europe territories and Yes Planet and Rav-Chen in Israel.
UK & Ireland ROW Total m m m Year ended 31 December 2017 1 Total revenues 524.5 366.2 890.7 Adjusted EBITDA as defined in Note 1 99.7 98.5 198.2 Operating profit 51.9 76.3 128.2 Net finance income expense 9.5 1.7 7.8 Depreciation and amortisation 32.8 35.3 68.1 Onerous leases and other charges 1.3 1.3 Impairments and reversals of impairments 4.9 0.3 5.2 Transaction and reorganisation costs 6.9 0.9 7.8 Profit before tax 42.5 78.0 120.5 Non-current asset additions property, plant and equipment 65.3 52.6 117.9 Non-current asset additions intangible assets 8.4 2.8 11.2 Investment in equity accounted investee 0.7 0.5 1.2 Non-current asset goodwill 304.8 370.7 675.5 Segmental total assets 645.8 761.4 1,407.2 Year ended 31 December 2016 1 Total revenues 494.0 303.8 797.8 Adjusted EBITDA as defined in Note 1 97.1 78.7 175.8 Operating profit 52.6 60.2 112.8 Net finance costs 13.4 1.2 14.6 Depreciation and amortisation 28.9 29.7 58.6 Onerous leases and other charges 0.5 1.0 1.5 Impairments and reversals of impairments 0.8 1.2 0.4 Transaction and reorganisation costs 1.5 1.5 Profit before tax 46.8 51.4 98.2 Non-current asset additions property, plant and equipment 46.9 72.4 119.3 Non-current asset additions intangible assets 60.6 5.4 66.0 Investment in equity accounted investee 0.6 0.3 0.9 Non-current asset goodwill 296.8 353.8 650.6 Segmental total assets 571.4 725.3 1,296.7 1 All revenues were received from third parties.
93 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2.
Operating Segments continued Group-Wide Disclosures Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Revenue by country m m United Kingdom & Ireland 524.5 494.0 Poland 114.2 98.1 Israel 77.6 63.5 Hungary 59.8 49.7 Romania 54.6 42.6 Czech Republic 35.1 29.6 Bulgaria 14.1 11.9 Slovakia 10.8 8.4 Total revenue 890.7 797.8 UK and Ireland Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Revenue by product and service provided m m Box office 345.0 324.0 Retail 125.8 117.5 Other 53.7 52.5 Total revenue 524.5 494.0 ROW Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Revenue by product and service provided m m Box office 208.7 176.9 Retail 94.6 73.3 Other 62.9 53.6 Total revenue 366.2 303.8 3.
Other Operating Income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Rental income 3.5 2.7 Total other operating income 3.5 2.7 94 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4.
Operating Profit Included in operating profit for the year are the following: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Depreciation see Note 9 56.3 47.9 Impairments see Notes 9 and 10 0.4 1.3 Reversals of impairments see Notes 9 and 10 5.6 1.7 Amortisation of intangibles see Note 10 11.8 10.7 Onerous leases and other charges 1.3 1.5 Transaction and reorganisation costs 7.8 1.5 Gain on disposal of assets and subsidiaries 2.0 1 1 Hire of other assets operating leases 95.1 87.3 Settlement of defined benefit pension liability 4.8 1 1.0m 2016: 1.0m is included in administrative costs.
The balance is included in cost of sales.
Onerous leases and other charges In 2017 there is a charge of 1.3m 2016: gain of 2.7m on onerous lease provisions following changes in trading assumptions.
There were no other charges in 2017: in 2016 other charges included a gain on property provisions of 0.1m and the write off of 1.3m lease related assets no longer considered recoverable.
Gain on disposal of assets and subsidiaries On 7 February 2017 the Group sold 100% of the shares in Picturehouse Entertainment Limited, a company which operated an element of the Groups distribution arm in the UK.
The consideration received was 2.0m, resulting in a gain on disposal of 1.8m.
A gain of 0.2m resulted from the disposal of the Groups Haymarket site as part of the consideration for the acquisition of five Empire cinemas in 2016.
Transaction and reorganisation costs In 2017 transaction and reorganisation costs included 3.6m relating to the restructuring and redundancy costs 2016: 0.8m, 0.6m of costs incurred on the acquisition of six cinemas from Empire Cinemas Limited 2016: 0.5m, 2.8m 2016: Nil of costs incurred in respect of the ongoing transaction with Regal and 0.8m 2016: Nil of costs respect of the termination of contracts.
The total remuneration of the Group auditor, KPMG LLP, and its affiliates for the services to the Group is analysed below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Auditors remuneration: Group audit 0.6 0.6 Company audit Amounts received by auditors and their associates in respect of: Audit of financial statements pursuant to legislation 0.6 0.6 Audit related assurance services Tax compliance services 0.1 Tax advisory services 0.1 Other advisory services 1.3 0.2 All other services 95 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, after excluding the weighted average number of non-vested ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust.
Adjusted earnings per share is calculated in the same way except that the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders is adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets recognised as part of business combinations and other one-off income or expense and then adjusting for the tax impact on those items which is calculated at the effective tax rate for the current year.
The performance of adjusted earnings per share is used to determine awards to Executive Directors under the Group Performance Share Plan PSP.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of any non-vested ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust and after adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 100.6 82.0 Adjustments: 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.1 4.6 Transaction and reorganisation costs 7.8 1.5 Impairments and reversals of impairments 5.2 0.4 Onerous lease cost and other charges 1.3 1.5 Settlement of defined benefit pension scheme 4.8 3 Impact of foreign exchange translation gains and losses 6.1 2 Exceptional finance credit 1.9 Gain on disposal of assets and subsidiaries 2.0 Adjusted earnings 107.6 95.2 Tax effect of above items 1.4 1.4 Adjusted profit after tax 106.2 93.8 Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Total Total Weighted average number of shares in issue 271.4 266.2 Basic earnings per share denominator prior to rights adjustment 271.4 266.2 Basic earnings per share denominator rights adjusted 612.4 600.7 Dilutive options prior to rights adjustment 1.4 4.4 Diluted earnings per share denominator prior to rights adjustment 272.8 270.6 Diluted earnings per share denominator rights adjusted 615.6 610.6 Shares in issue at year end 273.9 267.6 Pence Pence 4 Basic earnings per share rights adjusted 16.4 13.7 4 Diluted earnings per share rights adjusted 16.3 13.4 4 Adjusted basic earnings per share rights adjusted 17.3 15.6 4 Adjusted diluted earnings per share rights adjusted 17.3 15.4 Basic earnings per share prior to rights adjustment 37.1 30.8 Diluted earnings per share prior to rights adjustment 36.9 30.4 Adjusted basic earnings per share prior to rights adjustment 39.1 35.2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share prior to rights adjustment 38.9 34.7 1 Amortisation of intangible assets includes amortisation of the fair value placed on brands, customer lists, distribution relationships, and advertising relationships as a result of the Cinema City business combination.
It does not include amortisation of purchased distribution rights which totalled 6.4m 2016: 6.1m.
2 Exceptional finance credits of 1.9m in 2016 were made up of the net change in fair value of cash flow hedges reclassified from equity, no such charges were incurred in 2017.
3 Net foreign exchange gains and losses included within earnings comprises 6.1m foreign exchange loss recognised on translation of the Euro term loan at 31 December 2016, no such gains or losses were incurred in 2017.
4 In accordance with IAS 33 basic and diluted EPS figures have been restated to reflect the bonus element Rights Issue described in Note 25.
96 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6.
Staff Numbers and Costs The average number of persons employed by the Group including Directors during the year, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of staff 2017 2016 Head office 658 683 Cinemas 9,574 9,263 10,232 9,946 Included in the average number of persons employed by the Group are part-time employees.
No distinction is made between full-time and part-time employees in the analysis above.
The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 111.7 100.5 Social security costs 10.3 8.8 Other pension costs defined contribution 2.1 1.6 Share-based payments see Note 18 2.3 2.0 126.4 112.9 See pages 48 to 67 for details of Directors remuneration.
Finance Income and Expense Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Interest income 0.7 0.7 Net foreign exchange gain 1.3 Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income Note 18 0.4 Amounts reclassified from equity to profit or loss in respect of settled cash flow hedges 1.9 Finance income 2.0 3.0 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 6.3 7.8 Amortisation of financing costs 1.5 1.4 Unwind of discount on onerous lease provision 0.2 0.6 Unwind of discount on finance lease liability 1.2 0.7 Unwind of discount on market rent provision 0.4 Net foreign exchange loss 0.6 6.7 Finance expense 9.8 17.6 Net finance costs 7.8 14.6 Recognised Within Other Comprehensive Income Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Movement in fair value of interest rate swap 1.3 0.5 Foreign exchange translation gain 26.0 88.2 97 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8.
Taxation Recognised in the Income Statement Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Current tax expense Current year 24.1 16.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.1 4.1 Total current tax expense 23.0 12.4 Deferred tax expense Current year 2.6 1.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.5 2.5 Total tax charge in statement of profit or loss 19.9 16.2 Effective tax rate 16.5% 16.5% Current year effective tax rate 17.9% 18.1% Reconciliation of Effective Tax Rate Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 120.5 98.2 Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 19.25% 2016: 20.00% 23.2 19.6 Differences in overseas tax rates 2.4 5.9 Permanently disallowed depreciation 1.2 1.3 Other permanent differences 1.5 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 1.6 Increase in unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.4 1.4 Effect of change in statutory rate on deferred tax 0.6 2.7 Total tax charge in statement of profit or loss 19.9 16.2 During the year there was a tax credit of 0.3m 2016: 1.0m recognised directly in the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
This related to share remuneration schemes and the movement in the fair value of the cash flow hedge on part of the Groups bank loans.
Factors that May Affect Future Tax Charges As at 31 December 2017 the Group had potential UK tax assets relating to the following: Capital losses of approximately 7.5m 2016: 7.5m No deferred tax liability has been recognised on 6.8m 2016: 5.8m of unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries which are potentially subject to withholding tax on distribution, as the Group can control the timing of remittances and it is probable that no remittance will be made in the foreseeable future.
No withholding tax or other taxes are imposed under local tax laws on the distribution of unremitted earnings from other subsidiaries resident in the majority of the Groups jurisdictions.
At 31 December 2017 the Group had unrecognised potential tax assets relating to the following temporary differences: UK capital losses of 7.5m with no expiry date Overseas tax losses of 0.5m with no expiry date It is not considered probable that future taxable profit will be available against which these deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to the periods when the assets are realised or liabilities settled, based on tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at 31 December 2017.
98 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9.
Property, Plant and Equipment Assets in the Land and Plant and Fixtures and course of buildings machinery fittings construction Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 188.2 121.8 159.1 10.6 479.7 Additions 21.3 16.9 21.4 16.9 76.5 Additions due to acquisition 35.4 1.5 5.9 42.8 Disposals 5.2 4.1 2.3 11.6 Transfers 4.9 6.7 8.6 20.2 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 9.5 24.3 25.3 1.2 60.3 Balance at 31 December 2016 254.1 167.1 218.0 8.5 647.7 Additions 17.2 17.7 46.7 34.2 115.8 Additions due to acquisition 1.1 0.6 0.4 2.1 Disposals 5.6 6.6 3.6 15.8 Transfers to assets classified as held for sale 1.6 1.6 Transfers 8.4 4.7 18.1 31.2 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 3.9 9.2 10.6 0.3 24.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 277.5 192.7 290.2 11.8 772.2 Accumulated depreciation and impairment Balance at 1 January 2016 44.1 41.4 48.8 134.3 Charge for the period 9.5 20.3 18.1 47.9 Disposals 5.2 3.5 2.4 11.1 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 3.5 15.8 12.3 31.6 Impairments 0.7 0.5 0.1 1.3 Reversals of impairments 0.1 0.9 0.7 1.7 Balance at 31 December 2016 52.5 73.6 76.2 202.3 Charge for the period 10.3 23.0 23.0 56.3 Disposals 5.7 6.4 3.3 15.4 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 2.5 6.6 4.9 14.0 Impairments 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.4 Reversals of impairments 4.0 0.9 0.7 5.6 Balance at 31 December 2017 55.8 96.0 100.2 252.0 Net book value At 31 December 2016 201.6 93.5 141.8 8.5 445.4 At 31 December 2017 221.7 96.7 190.0 11.8 520.2 Land and buildings are made up of long and short leasehold properties including leasehold improvements and freeholdproperties.
The net book value of assets held under finance lease is: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Opening net book value 22.8 6.8 Additions 16.5 Depreciation charge 1.0 0.5 Closing net book value 21.8 22.8 The above assets held under finance leases relate to three cinema sites: two cinema sites for which the leased assets are included within land and buildings and equipment, and another site in which they are held in plant and machinery.
Interest of 0.9m 2016: 0.5m has been capitalised during the period which relates to the construction of new sites.
No proceeds were received in the period in respect of the tangible fixed asset disposals.
99 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 9.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Impairment The Group determines whether tangible fixed assets are impaired when indicators of impairment exist or based on the annual impairment assessment.
The annual assessment requires an estimate of the value in use of the CGUs to which the tangible fixedassets are allocated, which is predominantly at the individual cinema site level.
Where individual sites cash flows are not considered independent from one another, mainly due to strategic or managerial decisions being made across more than one site, they may be combined into a single CGU.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from each CGU and discount these to their net present value at a pre-tax discount rate which is appropriate for the territory where the assets areheld.
A table summarising the rates used, which are derived from externally benchmarked data, is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m United Kingdom 9.9% 9.2% Poland 12.4% 12.7% 1 1 Israel 11.9% 12.7% Hungary 10.7% 13.0% Romania 11.4% 11.8% Czech Republic 10.9% 11.0% Bulgaria 10.2% 10.6% Slovakia 11.6% 11.1% 1 For sites which generate significant rental cash flows in addition to cinema cash flows a separate discount rate of 12.75% 2016: 13.06% was used to reflect the specific risks related to those CGUs.
For established sites, expected future cash flows are based on financial budgets approved by the Board of Directors covering a one year period.
Cash flows beyond the first period are extrapolated using the assumptions used in the impairment model.
Constant growth rate assumptions are used for projections on established sites.
For new sites, where a constant growth would not accurately reflect market conditions, more detailed growth assumptions are used for the first five years.
UK & Ireland ROW Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % % % 1 1 Discount rate 9.90 9.20 N A N A EBITDAR growth rate years 1 2 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 EBITDAR growth rate year 3 onward 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 1 Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used: a summary is disclosed above.
2018 forecast EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation.
This was adjusted to add back rent EBITDAR.
Property costs are factored into the model, but are assumed to grow at 3.0% per annum over the life of the model.
Cash flows are projected over a 20 year period.
Impairments recognised during the year totalled 0.3m within the UK and Ireland operating segment: 0.1m related to capital expenditure on cinema sites for which onerous lease provisions were in place, the remaining 0.2m related to the write off of residual assets held at sites which were closed during the year.
Impairment Reversals A review of future cash flows for previously impaired cinema sites identified improvements in trading performance at one site in the UK and one site in the ROW sufficient to recognise a reversal of impairment.
An impairment reversal of 5.2m was recognised in respect of the site in the UK and 0.4m in respect of the site in the ROW.
100 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9.
Property, Plant and Equipment continued Sensitivity to Changes in Assumptions Impairment reviews are sensitive to changes in key assumptions.
Sensitivity analysis has been performed on the established CGUs calculated recoverable amounts giving consideration to incremental changes in the key assumptions of EBITDAR and discount rates.
The cash flow models used in assessing the carrying values of sites opened within the last two years are based on specific assumptions made prior to opening in respect of the early growth phase of the sites.
Therefore sensitivity analysis is not applied to these sites during this time.
The sensitivities applied reflect realistic scenarios which management believe would have the most significant impact on the cash flows described above.
Discounts rates are largely derived from market data, and these rates are intended to be long term in nature so therefore should be reasonably stable in the short term.
However, the models are sensitive to changes in these rates.
Increases by a factor of 1% and 2% have been applied in the sensitised scenarios on the basis they reflect the range of likely to maximum variances in rates applied.
The growth rates for EBITDAR in years 1 and 2 have been reduced to 2%, 1% and nil.
EBITDAR sensitivities reflect reductions in growth which would largely be driven by changes in admissions and ticket prices.
Given the short term admissions trends and ticket price inflation, sensitivities applied are believed to reflect a potential downside scenario.
From year 3 onward a lower long-term growth rate is applied, which is in line or below long-term inflation in each territory.
As such this assumption is already considered prudent and therefore this has not been included as part of the sensitivities performed.
When reviewing the outputs of the sensitivity analysis, particular focus is given to material amounts where headroom is more limited.
The impact on the total impairment charge of applying different assumptions to the growth rates used in the first two years and the discount rates would be as follows: Additional impairment m EBITDAR growth rate in years 1 2 reduced to 2% 0.2 EBITDAR growth rate in years 1 2 reduced to 1% 0.3 No growth in EBITDAR growth rate in years 1 2 0.4 1 percentage point increase to the discount rates 2 percentage point increase to the discount rates 0.9 For CGUs which are still in a rapid growth phase and include significant rental cash flows in addition to the cinema cash flows, specific local factors should be considered when preparing the forecast admissions which differ from a constant future growth rate.
Therefore the basic sensitivities highlighted above are not appropriate to be applied.
As such these CGUs have been excluded from the above analysis and alternative sensitivities, reflecting managements best estimate of likely possible changes, have been applied.
EBITDAR is particularly sensitive to a change in admissions due to its particular growth profile.
As such EBITDAR has been reduced to reflect an 18% reduction in mature admissions and related cash flows.
In assessing the risk associated with these cash flows, discount rates have been increased across the various income streams to reflect the maximum expected variances which are considered realistic in practice.
From the sensitivity analysis performed, including a mix of downsides when applying admissions decrease and discount rate increase, there is still substantial headroom of 7.4m.
Non-current assets held for sale Subsequent to the year end the Group entered into an agreement for the sale assets which had been held for a proposed development in the UK.
The sale of these assets will not result in a reduction of the number of sites or screens operated by the Group.
The values in the table below represent the net book value of the property, plant and equipment held for sale.
As the fair value less costs to sell is expected to be in excess of the net book value no impairment is considered necessary.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Property, plant and equipment 1.6 101 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Intangible Assets Distribution Other Goodwill Brand rights intangibles Total m m m m m Cost Balance at 1 January 2016 547.7 38.7 24.1 10.1 620.6 Additions 60.6 3.3 2.1 66.0 Disposals 0.8 0.8 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 50.7 3.4 5.3 2.1 61.5 Balance at 31 December 2016 659.0 42.1 32.7 13.5 747.3 Additions 8.2 1.9 1.1 11.2 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 16.7 1.3 2.5 1.4 21.9 Balance at 31 December 2017 683.9 43.4 36.7 16.0 780.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Balance at 1 January 2016 8.4 8.1 9.7 2.6 28.8 Amortisation 2.8 6.1 1.8 10.7 Disposals 0.7 0.7 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 2.6 1.1 3.7 Balance at 31 December 2016 8.4 10.9 18.4 4.8 42.5 Amortisation 2.8 6.4 2.6 11.8 Disposals 0.2 0.2 Effects of movement in foreign exchange 1.8 1.2 3.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 8.4 13.7 26.4 8.6 57.1 Net book value At 31 December 2016 650.6 31.2 14.3 8.7 704.8 At 31 December 2017 675.5 29.7 10.3 7.4 722.9 Impairment Testing Each individual cinema, or collection of cinemas which are strategically or operationally co-dependent, is considered to be one CGU.
However, for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, it is acceptable under IAS 36 to group CGUs, in order to reflect the level at which goodwill is monitored by management.
The ex-Cine-UK, ex-UGC including Dublin and Picturehouse businesses are now fully integrated, meaning that goodwill is now monitored on a UK-wide level 2017: 304.7, 2016: 296.8.
The six sites acquired from Empire Cinemas Limited are considered to have been fully integrated from the date of acquisition as there were no support functions included in either acquisition.
The acquired goodwill in respect of these transactions is therefore included within the UK CGU Group.
The recoverable amounts of UK and Cinema City CGU Groups have been determined based on a value in use calculation.
That calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by management covering a five year period.
Cash flows beyond the first five year period have been extrapolated using the below assumptions.
This growth rate does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the market in which the CGU Groups operate.
The UK business has discounted forecast cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.9% 2016: 9.2% being a market participants discount rate.
The Cinema City CGU Groups have discounted forecast cash flows using a pre-tax discount rates relevant to the operating territory of each CGU Group see Note 9, being a market participants discount rate.
This is considered to reflect the risks associated with the relevant cash flows for each CGU Group.
The key assumptions used in the cash flow projections for the purpose of the impairment review are as follows: UK & Ireland ROW Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % % % 1 1 Discount rate 9.90 9.20 N A N A EBITDA growth rate from year 5 onward 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 1 Individual discount rates for each operating territory have been used: a summary is disclosed in Note 9.
102 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10.
Intangible Assets continued 2018 forecast Adjusted EBITDA, as defined in Note 1, was used as the basis of the future cash flow calculation.
Management have sensitised the key assumptions in the goodwill impairment tests and under both the base case and sensitised cases no impairment exists.
The key assumptions used and sensitised were forecast cash flows and the relevant discount rate, which were selected as they are the key variable elements of the value in use.
A reduction of 10% in the forecast cash flows for each CGU from years 2 to 5 or an increase in the discount rate applied to the cash flows of each CGU of 1 or 2 percentage points would not cause the carrying value to exceed its recoverable amount for any CGU.
Amortisation Charge The amortisation of intangible assets is recognised in the following line items in the Statement of Profit or Loss: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Administrative expenses 11.8 10.7 11.
Investment in Equity Accounted Investees The Group has the following investment in jointly controlled entities: Country of Class of incorporation shares held Ownership Digital Cinema Media Limited England and Wales Ordinary 50% BLACK Schrauber Limited Israel Ordinary 50% On 8 February 2008 the Group jointly formed Digital Cinema Media Limited DCM with Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited Odeon.
On 10 July 2008 DCM acquired certain trade and assets substantially employees, computer systems, leasehold office and existing contracts from Carlton Screen Advertising Limited, the Groups former advertising supplier.
Under the terms of the shareholder agreement between the Group and Odeon, key business decisions in respect of DCM require the unanimous approval of the shareholders.
As a consequence, the Directors of the Group do not have total management control of DCM, therefore the Groups investment is accounted for as a joint venture.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cost 0.9 0.9 Share of post-acquisition reserves 0.2 0.3 0.7 0.6 Share of post-tax loss Carrying value 0.7 0.6 Summary aggregated financial information on jointly controlled entities 100%: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Current assets 23.4 20.3 Non-current assets 1.5 1.8 Current liabilities 24.4 16.1 Non-current liabilities 1.0 6.4 Net liabilities 0.5 0.4 Income 70.5 65.2 Expenses 70.4 65.2 Net profit 0.1 On 24 June 2015 the Group jointly formed a partnership for running a restaurant in the new complex in Jerusalem: as at 31December 2017 the assets, liabilities and net profit of BLACK Schrauber Limited were not material to the Group.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cost 0.5 0.3 Share of post-acquisition reserves 0.5 0.3 Share of post-tax loss Carrying value 0.5 0.3 103 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 0.1 5.6 6.2 5.6 6.1 Intangible assets 7.3 8.6 7.3 8.6 Employee benefits 2.3 0.5 0.3 2.3 0.2 Market rent 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.1 0.3 Interest rate swap 0.2 0.2 Tax losses 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 Other 1.0 1.0 Tax assets liabilities 3.0 2.5 13.2 15.2 10.2 12.7 Set off tax 3.0 2.4 3.0 2.4 Net tax assets liabilities 0.1 10.2 12.8 10.2 12.7 See Note 8 for details of unrecognised tax assets.
Deferred taxation provided for in the financial statements at the period end represents provision at the local tax rates on the above items.
A review of the deferred tax will be performed at each balance date and adjustments made in the event of a change in any key assumptions.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: 1 January Recognised Recognised Foreign 31 December 2017 in income in equity exchange 2017 m m m m m Property, plant and equipment 6.1 0.7 0.2 5.6 Intangible assets 8.6 1.7 0.4 7.3 Employee benefits 0.2 2.0 0.1 2.3 Market rent 0.3 0.3 Interest rate swap 0.2 0.2 Tax losses 0.3 0.1 0.4 Other 1.0 1.0 Tax liabilities 12.7 3.2 0.1 0.6 10.2 13.
Inventories 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Goods for resale 7.9 7.6 Equipment and spare parts 2.5 2.2 10.4 9.8 Inventory recognised in cost of sales in the year amounted to 57.6m 2016: 55.8m.
Trade and Other Receivables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Current m m Trade receivables 29.6 29.8 Other receivables 9.8 7.7 Prepayments and accrued income 38.1 36.5 77.5 74.0 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 Non-current m m Other property receivables 4.5 4.5 Land lease premiums 0.8 0.9 Loan to jointly controlled entity 0.6 0.6 5.9 6.0 Other property receivables represent the fair value asset of leases acquired with Cinema City Holdings B. V. 104 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15. Business Combinations 2016 Acquisition of five Empire cinemas On 28 July 2016 Cineworld Group Plc the Group announced the acquisition of five Cinemas from Cinema Holdings Limited by means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares, including all of the voting rights.
Consideration transferred The acquisition was completed on 11 August 2016, at which point the consideration equated to 94.5m which would be settled equally in cash and in Cineworld Group plc ordinary shares in addition to the transfer of the trade and assets of the Groups Haymarket cinema to Cinema Holdings Limited.
The shares were issued in five instalments during a 12 month period, based on anissue price reflecting the 20 days average trading price prior to the date of each issuance.
The first issue of shares took place on 18 November 2016 and the last took place on 8 August 2017.
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred m Cash consideration 47.0 Share consideration 47.0 Transfer of cinema assets 0.5 Total fair value of consideration transferred 94.5 The fair value of the shares issued to Cinema Holdings Limited included 42.0m split into four tranches, issued at three month intervals with the first issued on the three month anniversary of completion of the acquisition.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed m Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition Property, plant and equipment 42.8 Finance lease liability 8.2 Deferred tax provisions 0.2 Provisions for liabilities 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents Total net identifiable assets 33.9 Goodwill 60.6 Consideration transferred 94.5 The key judgments considered were as follows: Property and Leases The fair value of property, plant and equipment of 42.8m included a number of adjustments.
Old cinema equipment and assets which were previously held at their residual value of 3.2m were fully depreciated as the residual value is not expected to be realised.
A fair value adjustment of 3.0m was made in respect of the Bromley site in recognition of the residual value in the sellers books being below the current market value.
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management also considered the lease contract for each of the cinemas.
Where leases include options to extend beyond the existing contracted term this was taken into consideration.
Two leases held on the Leicester Square site were classified as finance leases and a liability for the fair value of the minimum expected lease payments on each recognised: a corresponding asset was recognised in respect of the fair value of the lease within Property, Plant and Equipment.
Tax The acquired deferred tax liability of 0.2m reflects taxable temporary differences on fixed assets at acquisition.
No income tax liability is recognised on acquisition as future tax charges are not expected to arise in respect of tax positions open at the date of acquisition.
Identifiable Intangible Assets There were no identifiable intangible assets recognised on acquisition.
Management consider the residual goodwill of 60.6m to represent a number of factors including the strategic location of the sites acquired, the established benefit of an established site, the value the acquired sites can add to Cineworlds existing brand and products as well as synergies expected to be realised post acquisition.
None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes.
The revenue included in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the year ended 31 December 2016 since 11 August 2016 contributed by the acquired sites was 11.9m.
The profit before tax contributed was 2.6m over the same period.
Had the five cinemas been consolidated from 1 January 2016 the commencement of the prior financial period, the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss would show revenue of 814.5m and profit before tax of 101.9m.
Acquisition related costs of 0.5m were charged to administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the year ended 31 December 2016.
105 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 15. Business Combinations continued 2017 Acquisition of Empire cinema On 15 June 2017 the Group completed the acquisition of the Newcastle cinema from Cinema Holdings Limited by means of an acquisition of 100% of the shares.
The consideration consists of two elements, the initial consideration of 7.1m plus contingent consideration based on the performance of the site over a 24 month period post completion of the refurbishment.
The contingent consideration has been provisionally estimated at 3.2m based on the expected future performance of the site andthe market.
Fair Value of Consideration Transferred m Cash consideration 7.1 Contingent consideration 3.2 Total fair value of consideration transferred 10.3 The fair value of net assets has been provisionally determined at 2.1m.
The residual goodwill of 8.2m represents a number of factors including the strategic location of the sites acquired, the benefit of the sites being established sites, the value the acquired sites can add to Cineworlds existing brand and products as well as synergies expected to be realised post acquisition.
Identifiable Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed m Fair value of total net identifiable assets upon acquisition Property, plant and equipment 2.1 Total net identifiable assets 2.1 Goodwill 8.2 Consideration transferred 10.3 The Key Judgments considered were as follows: Property and Leases The fair value of property, plant and equipment of 2.1m represents managements initial assessment of the assets acquired.
Thisprovisional fair value will be reviewed as further information on the assets acquired becomes available.
As well as considering the fair value of acquired property, plant and equipment, management also considered the lease contracts for the cinema: no assets or liabilities were identified in respect of these contracts.
Tax No income tax liability is recognised on acquisition as future tax charges are not expected to arise in respect of tax positions open at the date of acquisition.
Management consider the residual Goodwill of 8.2m to represent a number of factors including the strategic location of the site acquired, the benefit of an established site, the value the acquired site can add to Cineworlds existing brand and products as well as synergies expected to be realised post acquisition.
Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Non-current liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.6 Unsecured bank loan, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 315.9 307.1 Liabilities under finance leases 14.6 13.6 330.5 321.3 Current liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.5 Unsecured bank loans, less issue costs of debt to be amortised 13.6 14.9 Liabilities under finance leases 1.3 1.4 14.9 16.8 106 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16.
Interest-Bearing Loans and Borrowings and Other Financial Liabilities continued The terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Face Carrying Face Carrying Year of value amount value amount Currency Nominal interest rate maturity m m m m Unsecured bank loan 1 GBP LIBOR 1.40% 2020 286.3 284.8 276.8 273.9 Unsecured bank loan 2 EUR EURIBOR 1.40% 2020 42.6 42.4 46.2 45.8 Unsecured bank loan 3 NIS 2.6% 2020 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.3 Finance lease liability 1 GBP 7.2% 2029 5.8 5.8 6.0 6.0 Finance lease liability 2 EUR 6.5% 2021 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.8 Finance lease liability 3 GBP 6.2% 2060 9.6 9.6 7.9 8.2 Finance lease liability 4 GBP 9.6% 2036 Total interest-bearing liabilities 347.1 345.4 339.9 337.0 See Note 21 for bank loan maturity analysis.
Finance Lease Liabilities The maturity of obligations under finance leases is as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Within one year 1.2 1.3 Between one and two years 1.3 1.3 Between two and five years 4.1 4.2 Over five years 25.6 27.2 32.2 34.0 Less future finance charges 16.3 19.3 15.9 14.7 Analysis of Net Debt Cash at bank Bank Bank Finance Interest and in hand overdraft loans leases rate swap Net debt m m m m m m At 1 January 2016 62.5 299.3 6.8 1.6 245.2 Cash flows 14.1 13.4 1.0 26.5 Non-cash movement 1.8 9.2 0.5 10.5 Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates 7.4 7.5 0.1 At 31 December 2016 55.8 322.0 15.0 1.1 282.3 Cash flows 7.5 0.5 4.3 1.3 4.0 Non-cash movement 1.4 2.2 1.2 2.4 Effect of movement in foreign exchange rates 4.2 1.8 2.4 At 31 December 2017 67.5 0.5 329.5 15.9 0.1 278.3 The non-cash movements relating to bank loans represent the amortisation of debt issuance costs.
Trade and Other Payables 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Current Trade payables 28.4 30.1 Other payables 24.9 27.7 Accruals and deferred income 91.8 81.0 Deferred consideration 37.0 145.1 175.8 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Noncurrent Accruals and deferred income 92.5 74.8 Government grants 3.2 1.7 95.7 76.5 Non-current accruals and deferred income include reverse-lease premiums and an accrual for straight-lining operating leases.
107 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Employee Benefits Pension Plans The Group until recently operated two externally funded defined benefit pension schemes, one in the United Kingdom, the MGM Pension Scheme, and one in Ireland, the Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan.
MGM Scheme The Scheme was a funded scheme of the defined benefit type, providing retirement benefits based on final salary.
The Scheme closed to future accrual from 31 May 2009, though the link to final pay at retirement was retained.
On 15 December 2016 the Scheme was bought out by Aviva Annuity UK Limited, with all risks in relation to the Scheme passing to Aviva Annuity UK Limited as of the buyout date.
This transition was treated as a settlement occurring on 15 December 2016 the inception date.
Following this transaction, all members of the Scheme have had their benefits secured with Aviva Annuity UK Limited, discharging the Groups legal and constructive obligations for the Scheme.
The past service liabilities at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are therefore shown as Nil.
The Group engaged its actuarys assistance in measuring the defined benefit asset for the purposes of IAS 19 revised for the year ended 31 December 2016 as well as at the buyout date.
The valuation used for IAS 19 disclosures were based on a full assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at 5 April 2015.
The present values of the defined benefit obligation, the related current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the projected unit credit method.
Actuarial gains and losses up to the date of the buyout were recognised in the year in which they occurred, but outside the Statement of Profit or Loss, through Other Comprehensive Income.
The Group made contributions of Nil during 2017 2016: 0.8m.
Following the buyout transaction there is no asset or liability recognised in respect of the fair value of the Scheme, 1.6m 2016: 1.6m is recognised within other receivables in respect of the amount due to the Group from the settlement of the Scheme.
Following the buyout transaction, all members of the Scheme have had their benefits secured with Aviva Annuity UK Limited: there is no longer any obligation by the Group to the members of the Scheme.
Funding Requirements UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently.
The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out bya qualified actuary as at 5 April 2015 and showed a surplus of 1.7m.
The Group paid deficit contributions of 0.8m in 2016 tosupport the Scheme, following the buyout transaction no further contribution in respect of the Scheme are expected.
Risks Associated with the Scheme Following the buyout transaction all of the risks in respect of the scheme have been transferred to Aviva Annuity UK Limited.
Prior to settlement, the Scheme exposed the Group to a number of risks, the most significant of which were: Asset Volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The Scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets equity diversified growth funds and global absolute return fund which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term.
The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure itremains appropriate given the Schemes long-term objectives.
Changes in Bond Yields A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Schemes liabilities for accounting purposes, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Schemes bond holdings.
Inflation Risk A significant proportion of the Schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation.
The majority of the assets are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life Expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, soincreases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
A contingent liability previously existed in relation to the equalisation of Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP.
The UK Government intends to implement legislation which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males.
This would increase the defined benefit obligation of the plan.
At the buyout date, it was not possible to quantify the impact of this change.
The buyout premium paid included an estimated additional cost for GMP equalisation and this cost was therefore included in the settlement recorded through the Statement of Profit or Loss in 2016, When the members benefits have been fully paid, the rules of the Scheme permit any surplus to revert to the employer theGroup.
Therefore the surplus on the Scheme has been recognised as an asset.
The fair value of plan assets remaining at 31December 2016 represent the residual balance following settlement of the Scheme and all risks and obligations transferring toAviva Annuity UK Limited, it is expected that these assets will transfer to the Group on completion of the buyout process.
108 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18.
Employee Benefits continued Movements in present value of defined benefit obligation: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At beginning of year 31.0 Interest cost 1.1 Actuarial loss gain 9.0 Benefits paid 2.0 Settlements 39.1 At end of year Movements in fair value of plan assets: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m At start of year 41.5 Interest income 1.5 Remeasurement gain loss 3.9 Contributions by employer 0.8 Administration costs incurred 0.3 Benefits paid 2.0 Settlements 43.8 At end of year 1.6 Expense income recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Operating cost Administration expenses 0.3 Settlement cost 4.8 Net finance costs Defined benefit pension scheme net finance income 0.4 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement of the defined benefit asset 5.1 Total recognised in profit and loss and other comprehensive income 9.8 The income is recognised in the following line items in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Administrative expenses 5.1 Finance income 0.4 Total 4.7 Analysis of amounts recognised in Other Comprehensive Income: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Actuarial losses gains recognised in the year 5.1 109 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Employee Benefits continued Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Interest income 1.5 Remeasurement of plan assets in excess of interest income 3.9 Actual return on plan assets 5.4 The principal actuarial assumptions used to calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 % % RPI Inflation N A 3.55 CPI Inflation N A 2.55 Rate of general long-term increase in salaries N A 5.55 Rate of increase to pensions in payment N A 2.25 3.3 Discount rate for scheme liabilities N A 2.85 The financial assumptions reflect the nature and term of the Schemes liabilities.
Year ended Year ended Year ended Main demographic assumptions 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 1 January 2016 Mortality table adopted N A S1PXA base table with S1PXA base table with future improvements future improvements in line with CMI 2014 in line with CMI 2014 core projections with core projections with long-term improvement long-term improvement rate of 1.75% per annum rate of 1% per annum Life expectancy for male currently aged 65 N A 22.4 22.1 Life expectancy for female currently aged 65 N A 24.5 24.4 Cash commutation N A None Members assumed to exchange 31% of their pension for a cash lump sum at retirement The mortality assumptions were based on the recent actual mortality experience of scheme members, and allow for expected future improvement in mortality rates.
History of Plans The history of the plans for the current and prior years is as follows: Balance Sheet Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 1 December 1 December 1 January 26 December 2017 2016 2015 2015 2013 m m m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 31.0 32.4 28.8 Fair value of plan assets 41.5 41.0 34.1 Surplus 10.5 8.6 5.3 Experience Adjustments Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 December 1 December 1 December 1 January 26 December 2017 2016 2015 2015 2013 m m m m m Experience loss gain on plan assets 3.9 1.2 5.2 0.1 Experience loss gain on plan liabilities 0.1 0.1 0.1 Sensitivity to Key Assumptions No sensitivity analysis has been performed given there remains no liability on the Groups Statement of Financial Position at 31December 2017 or2016.
110 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18.
Employee Benefits continued Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan The Adelphi-Carlton Limited Contributory Pension Plan is closed to new entrants and therefore the current service cost is Nil.
The trustees of the Adelphi-Carlton Contributory Pension Plan have not agreed that any surplus on the plan can be refunded tothe Group.
Accordingly the surplus has not been recognised.
The Scheme has a surplus of 0.8m as at 31 December 2017 2016:0.8m.
Actuaries for Adelphi-Carlton Limited carried out the last actuarial valuation of the Scheme as at 1 April 2016.
Based on this assessment, the actuarial value of the assets is 2.4m 2016: 2.4m which is more than sufficient to cover 100% of the benefits that had accrued to members.
In view of this, a suspension of Group contributions was in force from 1 April 2001 to 31 December 2016.
Total contributions for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 were Nil and Nil, respectively.
No contributions are expected for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Accrued Employee Retirement Rights Local applicable labour laws and agreements in the ROW require certain Group companies to pay severance pay to dismissed orretiring employees including those leaving their employment under certain other circumstances.
The calculation of the severance pay liability has been made in accordance with labour agreements in force and based on salary components that, inmanagements opinion, create entitlement to severance pay.
Group companies severance pay liabilities to their employees are funded partially by regular deposits with recognised pension and severance pay funds in the employees names and by purchase of insurance policies.
They are accounted for as if they were adefined contribution plan.
The amounts funded as above are netted against the related liabilities and are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position since they are not under the control and management of the companies.
The amounts of the liability for severance pay presented in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position see below reflect that part of the liability notcovered by the funds and the insurance policies mentioned above, as well as the liability that is funded by deposits with recognised central severance pay funds held under the name of the Companys subsidiaries.
The cost of severance provision is determined according to the projected unit credit method.
It has been calculated using adiscounted cash flow approach.
The calculations are based on the following assumptions: Discount at 31 December 2017 2.08% Expected returns on plan assets at 31 December 2017 1.73% The net provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement comprises: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Present value of unfunded obligation 4.2 3.3 Less: Fair value of plan assets 1.9 1.5 2.3 1.8 Movements in the provision for accrued employee rights upon retirement: Gross Amount Net amount deposited amount m m m At start of period 3.3 1.5 1.8 Payments made upon retirement 0.1 0.6 0.7 Net movement in provision charged to net profit 0.9 0.2 1.1 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 0 0.1 4.2 1.9 2.3 111 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Employee Benefits continued Defined Contribution Plans The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension plans.
The total expense relating to these plans in the current year was 2.1m 2016: 1.6m.
There was Nil accruing to these pension schemes as at 31 December 2017 2016: Nil.
Share-Based Payments As at 31 December 2017 there were three types of share option and share schemes: the Cineworld Group 2007 Performance Share Plan, the Cineworld Group plc Company Share Option Plan and the Cineworld Group 2007 Sharesave Scheme.
Details ofeach of the schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67.
The Cineworld Group Performance Share Plan PSP The following share options have been granted under the PSP and were outstanding at 31 December 2017: 2017 Number 2016 Number of shares of shares Date of grant Exercise period 000 000 23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 395 398 30 June 2015 3 years from 30 June 2015 7 7 18 April 2016 3 years from 18 April 2016 340 352 12 April 2017 3 years from 12 April 2017 361 Under the PSP, awards of conditional shares or nil cost options can be made that vest or become exercisable after three years subject to continued employment and generally the achievement of specified performance conditions as follows: 23 April and 30 June 2015 Under these grants, awards of 517,530 shares were made in total.
Awards of 405,826 shares were made with the performance conditions set out below: 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in earnings per share EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 isnot less than 8.0%: 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for thefinancial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 is at least 16.0%, and where the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2017 is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
EPS means adjusted earnings per share calculated by dividing the profits for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets and other one-off income or expense adjusted pro forma and applying a tax effect on all adjustments by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period, after excluding non-vested ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust at that time and adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
Further awards over 111,704 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with nospecified performance conditions attached.
18 April 2016 Under these grants, awards of 366,465 shares were made in total.
Awards of 253,192 shares were made with the performance conditions set out below: 30% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ending 31 December 2018 isnot less than 6.0%: 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for thefinancial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is at least 12.0%, and where the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2015 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
EPS means adjusted earnings per share calculated by dividing the profits for the period attributable to ordinary shareholders adjusted by adding back the amortisation of intangible assets and other one one-off income or expense adjusted pro forma and applying a tax effect on all adjustments by the number of ordinary shares outstanding at the end of the period, after excluding non-vested ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust at that time and adjusting for the effects of dilutive options.
Further awards over 113,273 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with no specified performance conditions attached.
112 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18.
Employee Benefits continued 12 April 2017 Under these grants, awards of 361,291 shares were made in total.
Awards of 283,483 shares were made with the performance conditions set out below: 25% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2016 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 isnot less than 5.0%: 100% of the shares under the Award will vest if the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2016 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 is at least 11.0%, and where the average annual growth in EPS calculated by comparing the EPS for the financial year ended 1 January 2016 and the EPS for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 is between the two limits above, the Award shall vest on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%.
Further awards over 77,808 shares were made which will vest after three years subject to continued employment only, with nospecified performance conditions attached.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows: Share price Exercise Expected Expected Dividend Risk free Fair at grant price volatility life yield rate value Date of grant % years % % 6 June 2014 3.46 41 3 4.3 0.56 3.07 23 April 2015 4.81 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22 30 June 2015 4.81 39 3 4.3 0.59 4.22 18 April 2016 5.48 38 3 2.9 0.37 5.02 12 April 2017 6.71 37 3 3.6 0.30 6.02 A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2017 is shown below: Number of Number of options 2017 options 2016 EquityEquitysettled settled 000 000 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,324 1,425 Exercised in shares during the year 567 413 Granted during the year 361 366 Lapsed during the year 15 54 Outstanding at the end of the year 1,103 1,324 A charge of 2.0m 2016: 1.7m was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the four PSP schemes.
The Company Share Option Plan CSOP The following share options have been granted under the CSOP and were outstanding at 31 December 2017: 2017 2016 Number of Number of shares shares Date of grant Exercise period 000 000 Performance conditions 6 June 2014 3 years from 6 June 2014 3 5 Awards of 2,891 shares were made with the same conditions as the 2014 PSP grant.
Awards of 14,455 were made with no performance conditions attached.
23 April 2015 3 years from 23 April 2015 29 38 All awards were made with no performance conditions attached.
18 April 2016 3 years from 18 April 2016 15 21 All awards were made with no performance conditions attached.
Assumptions relating to grants of share options outstanding are as follows: Share price Exercise Expected Dividend Risk at grant price volatility Expected life yield free rate Fair value Date of grant % years % % 6 June 2014 3.46 3.46 41 3 10 years 4.3 0.56 0.73 23 April 2015 4.81 4.81 39 3 10 years 4.3 0.59 0.94 18 April 2016 5.48 5.48 38 3 10 years 2.9 0.37 1.16 113 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Employee Benefits continued A reconciliation of option movements over the year to 31 December 2017 is shown below: Number of Number of options 2017 options 2016 EquityEquitysettled settled Outstanding at the beginning of the year 64 87 Exercised during the year 11 19 Granted during the year 24 Lapsed during the year 6 28 Outstanding at the end of the year 47 64 A charge of 0.1m 2016: Nil was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the three CSOP schemes.
Sharesave Scheme The fair value is measured at the grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The following share options have been granted under the Sharesave scheme and were outstanding at 31 December 2017: 2017 2016 Number Number of shares of shares Date of grant 000 000 8 May 2014 349 12 May 2015 273 330 A reconciliation of option movement over the year to 31 December 2017 is shown below: Number of Number of options 2017 options 2016 EquityEquitysettled settled 000 000 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 679 792 Exercised during the year 370 13 Granted during the year Lapsed during the year 36 100 Outstanding at the end of the year 273 679 A charge of 0.2m was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss for the two Sharesave schemes.
The total expense recognised for the year arising from share-based payments is 2.3m 2016: 2.0m.
The share-based payment expense recognised in creditors relates to dividends accrued by the option holders over the vesting period.
The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options in equity-settled schemes are as follows: Weighted Weighted average average exercise price Number of exercise price Number of 2017 options 2016 options 2017 2016  settled settled settled Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1.17 2,067 1.24 2,305 Exercised in shares during the year 1.05 948 0.22 445 Granted during the year 0.00 361 0.33 390 Lapsed during the year 2.80 57 2.49 183 Outstanding at the end of the year 0.90 1,423 1.17 2,057 Exercisable at the end of the year 114 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 18.
Employee Benefits continued Single Total Figure Table audited information The table below gives a single figure for the total remuneration and breakdown for each Executive and Non-Executive Director in respect of the 2017 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2016 financial year have also been provided.
2 The value of PSP shares vesting in respect of the period has been calculated using a share price of 6.349 being the average price for the last three months of the period as the PSP will not vest until 23 April 2018, and includes payment of a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on the vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between grant and vesting.
Currently, the dividend equivalent payment to Moshe Greidinger would amount to 89,625, the dividend equivalent payment to Israel Greidinger would amount to 61,108, and the dividend equivalent payment to Nisan Cohen would amount to 1,711.
3 Nisan Cohen and Dean Moore were appointed to the Board on 11 January 2017.
4 Martina King left the Company on 11 January 2017.
5 Details of the actual gains made are set out on page 66.
The actual figures set out in the table above differ from those included in the 2016 Annual Report figures as last year an estimated value of 5.525 per share was used to calculate the theoretical gain, as the awards had not yet vested.
The figures above reflect the share price of 7.00 on the date of vesting, 6 June 2017.
115 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Provisions Property Other Total provisions provisions provisions m m m Balance at 31 December 2016 9.5 8.4 17.9 Current 0.9 5.4 6.3 Non-current 8.6 3.0 11.6 Balance at 31 December 2016 9.5 8.4 17.9 Provisions made 1.4 1.4 Provisions released to administrative expenses during the year 2.0 2.0 Utilised against administrative expenses during the year 4.0 4.0 Utilised against rent during the year 3.0 3.0 Unwound against interest during the year 1.0 1.0 Balance at 31 December 2017 8.9 2.4 11.3 Current 1.5 2.0 3.5 Non-current 7.4 0.4 7.8 Total 8.9 2.4 11.3 Other provisions do not require significant judgement and have historically been settled in line with reported values.
Property provisions relate to onerous leases, dilapidations, market rent adjustments and other property liabilities.
Market rent provisions relate to the fair value of liabilities on leases acquired, which are assessed on acquisition and released over the remaining life of the lease.
The property provision includes onerous leases, which are assessed as being the unavoidable costs of the lease obligations in excess of the economic benefits expected to be received from operating it.
The unavoidable costs of the lease reflect the lease net cost of exiting from the contract and are measured as the lower of the net cost of continuing to operate the lease and any penalties or other costs from exiting it, measured on a discounted basis.
The remaining provision will be utilised over the period to the next rent review date or the remaining lease life depending on the term of the lease.
This is between one and 30 years see further analysis below.
31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Expected timing for utilisation of property provisions Analysed as: Within one year 1.5 1.2 Between one and two years 2.2 1.6 Between two and five years 2.9 2.8 Over five years 2.3 3.9 8.9 9.5 116 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 20.
Capital and Reserves Share Capital 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Cineworld Group plc Allotted, called up and fully paid 273,915718 2016: 267,581,189 ordinary shares of 0.01 each 2.7 2.7 As set out in Note 25, a further 1,095,705,180 ordinary shares were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue which completed on 20February 2018.
Translation Reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations, as well as from the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Merger Reserve In accordance with section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, the premium on ordinary shares issued in relation to acquisitions is recorded as a merger reserve.
A further 10.7m was transferred to the Merger Reserve from Share Premium during the year in relation to shares issued in 2016 in connection with the acquisition of five Empire cinemas on 28 July 2016 see Note 15.
Hedging Reserve The hedging reserve comprises the liability in relation to the interest rate swaps entered into, to hedge against variable interest payments on 125.7m 2016: 147.5m of the total 328.8m 2016: 322.9m of bank debt.
As hedge accounting has been adopted the gains losses are recorded through equity until such time as the cash flows being hedged occur, when they are recycled to the Statement of Profit or Loss.
During 2016 a 1.9m gain was recycled through the Statement of Profit or Loss in respect of the fair value of cash flow hedges on loans settled during the year.
A foreign currency exposure arises from the Groups net investment in its Dutch subsidiary, which has a Euro functional currency.
The risk arises from fluctuations in exchange rates between Sterling and the Euro, which cause the value of the net investment tovary.
The Group hedges part of its exposure to changes in the value of the investment arising from variances in Euro to Sterling exchange rate.
The hedge is designated against the Groups Euro term loan and 48.0m of the investment in the Dutch subsidiary.
The loan is designated as the hedging instrument for the changes in value that is attributable to the GBP EURO spotrate.
The Group assesses effectiveness by comparing changes in the carrying amount of the debt that are attributable to a change in spot rate with changes in the value of the investment in the foreign operation due to movements in the spot rate.
The Groups policy is to hedge the net investment only to the extent of the debt principal.
The changes in fair value of the hedged item and instrument reflected in the table were recognised in the hedge and foreign exchange reserve respectively for the hedged item and hedging instrument.
Carrying amount Carrying amount Change in at inception 31 December 2017 fair value m m m Asset Liability Asset Liability Euro denominated loan 47.5 42.2 5.3 Euro denominated investment 47.5 42.2 5.3 47.5 47.5 42.2 42.2 Dividends The following dividends were recognised during the year: 2017 2016 m m Interim 16.4 13.8 Final for the preceding year 37.4 33.2 53.8 47.0 An interim dividend of 6.0p per share was paid on 21 September 2017 to ordinary shareholders.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 15.4p per share 3.1p on a rights adjusted basis, which will result in total cash payable of approximately 42.2m on 6 July 2018.
Inaccordance with IAS 10 this had not been recognised as a liability at 31 December 2017.
117 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Financial Instruments Overview The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Market risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups Risk Management Framework.
The Group has in place a risk management programme and regular reports are made to the Audit Committee, which is tasked with general oversight.
The Groups risk management policies are established to identify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Groups activities.
The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations.
The Groups Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Groups risk management policies and procedures and reviews the adequacy of the Risk Management Framework in relation to the risks by the Group.
The Groups Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by internal audit.
Internal audit undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of certain risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Groups receivables from customers and investment securities.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
However, due to the nature of the Groups business, trade receivables are not significant which limits the related credit risk.
The Groups trade receivables are disclosed in Note 14.
Of the total balance of 29.6m 2016: 29.8m due, 75% 2016: 75% are within credit terms.
The bad debt provision as at 2017 is Nil 2016: Nil, with a bad debt expense in the year of Nil 2016: Nil.
Based on past experience the Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of the trade receivables that are past due.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is also limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings.
Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including interest payments and excluding the impact of netting agreements.
The amounts disclosed in the table are contractual undiscounted cash flows, including interest payments calculated using interest rates in force at each reporting date, so will not always reconcile with the amounts disclosed on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
118 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21.
Financial Instruments continued 31 December 2017 Carrying Contractual 6 months More than amount cash flows or less 6 12 months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 329.5 331.1 7.5 7.5 12.9 303.2 Finance lease liabilities 15.9 32.2 0.6 0.6 1.3 4.1 25.6 Trade payables 28.4 28.4 28.4 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.4 0.15 0.15 0.1 373.9 391.1 36.65 8.25 14.3 307.3 25.6 31 December 2016 Carrying Contractual 6 months More than amount cash flows or less 6 12 months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Unsecured bank loans 322.0 325.3 7.5 7.5 12.7 297.6 Finance lease liabilities 15.0 34.0 0.6 0.7 1.3 4.2 27.2 Trade payables 30.1 30.1 30.1 Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swaps 1.1 7.1 0.6 2.6 1.8 2.1 368.2 396.5 38.8 10.8 15.8 303.9 27.2 The Group entered into a five year facility in January 2014 which included term loans of 165.0m and 132.0m and revolving credit facilities of 75.0m and 60.0m.
On 29 July 2015 the Group signed an amendment and extension to its existing banking facility which was effective immediately upon signing and extends the facility to June 2020.
As a result, the term loans were reduced from 157.5m and 126.0m to 130.0m and 63.0m.
In August 2016 the Group extended the single currency revolving credit facility of 190.0m to 215.0m topartly fund the empire acquisition.
At 31 December 2017 the facility remained subject to the existing two covenants: the ratio of EBITDA as defined in Note 1 to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent EBITDA to net finance charges.
A margin, determined by the results of the covenant tests at a given date is added to LIBOR or EURIBOR.
The margins currently applicable to the Group are 1.40% on the term loans and 1.15% on the revolving credit facility.
On 5 December 2017 the Group entered into a contingent foreign exchange forward contract to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in US Dollar to Sterling exchange rates in respect of $2.3bn of the consideration described in note 25.
The contract required the Group to pay an amount of 1.7bn on 28 February 2018: the payment was contingent on the completion of the Regal acquisition.
As the cash flows resulting from the contract were contingent on the on the completion of the acquisition associated Rights Issue, in accordance with IFRS 9 the financial instrument was not required to be recognised within the Financial Statements at 31 December 2017.
119 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Financial Instruments continued Cash Flow Hedges The following table indicates the periods in which the discounted cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur.
31 December 2017 Carrying Expected cash 6 months More than amount flows or less 6 12 months 1 2 years 2 5 years 5 years m m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 31 December 2016 Carrying Expected 6 months More than amount cash flows or less 6-12 months 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years m m m m m m m Interest rate swaps 1.1 7.1 0.6 2.6 1.8 2.1 It is expected that the cash flows will impact profit and loss when the cash flows occur.
Market Risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings of financial instruments.
The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return on risk.
Foreign Currency Risk Operating across nine territories increases the Groups exposure to currency risk.
Wherever possible, overseas operations will fund their day-to-day working capital requirements in local currency with cash generated from operations, naturally hedging thecurrency risk exposure to the Group.
Management will continually monitor the level of currency risk exposure, and consider hedging where appropriate.
Currently the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the assets and liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
Interest Rate Risk The Groups policy is to manage its cost of borrowing by securing fixed interest rates on a portion of its term loan.
Whilst fixed-rate interest-bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed-rate borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid early as part of the liquidity management process.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to hedge a portion of its bank loans that have fixed interest rates.
Interest rate swaps are measured at fair value, which have been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The Group has hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the potential risk of a material impact arising from interest rate fluctuations.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had three 2016: seven interest rate swaps, two GBP denominated swaps which hedged 81% 2016: 82% of the Groups variable rate GBP unsecured term loan and a remaining Euro denominated swap hedging 83% 2016: 100% of the Euro denominated unsecured loan.
The revolver loan, of which 175.0m 2016: 158.0m was drawn down at the end of the year, is not hedged.
120 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21.
Financial Instruments continued At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Groups interest-bearing financial instruments was: Carrying amount 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Fixed rate instruments Financial assets interest rate swap 0.1 Financial liabilities interest rate swap 1.1 Financial liabilities unsecured bank loans hedged portion 125.7 158.0 Finance lease liabilities 15.9 14.9 141.5 174.0 Variable rate instruments Financial liabilities unsecured bank loans unhedged portion 203.8 164.1 125.7m 2016: 158.0m of the variable rate financial liability is hedged via the interest rate swaps with the balance attracting a variable interest rate.
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments The Group accounts for fixed-rate derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the Statement of Profit or Loss except where derivatives qualify forhedge accounting when recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.
A change of 100 basis points in interest rates would have increased equity by 1.5m 2016: 1.6m or decreased equity by 1.5m 2016: 1.6m for each swap and would have increased or decreased profit or loss by Nil 2016: Nil.
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments A change of 100 basis points in interest rates at the reporting date would have increased decreased equity and profit or loss by the amounts shown below.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
The analysis is performed on the same basis for 2016.
Profit or loss Equity 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp 100 bp Effect in GBP thousands increase decrease increase decrease 31 December 2017 Variable rate instruments 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000 Interest rate swap 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 Cash flow sensitivity net 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 31 December 2016 Variable rate instruments 3,100 3,100 3,100 3,100 Interest rate swap 1,500 1,500 1,500 1,500 Cash flow sensitivity net 1,600 1,600 1,600 1,600 Fair Values Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of the Groups financial instruments that are carried in the financial statements.
Short-term debtors, creditors and cash and cash equivalents have been excluded from the following disclosures on the basis that their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation to fair value.
Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Unsecured bank loans 329.5 331.1 322.0 325.3 Finance lease liabilities 15.9 15.9 15.0 15.0 Interest rate swaps 0.1 0.1 1.1 1.1 345.3 346.9 338.1 341.4 The fair value of derivatives and borrowings has been calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The carrying amount of unsecured bank loans is stated net of debt issuance costs and the fair value is stated gross of debt issuance costs and is calculated using the market interest rates.
The difference between net carrying amount and estimated fair value reflects unrealised gains or losses inherent in the instruments based on valuations at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016.
The volatile nature of the markets means that values at any subsequent date could be significantly different from the values reported above.
121 Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Financial Instruments continued Fair Value Hierarchy The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3: inputs for the assets or liability that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 31 December 2017 Derivative financial instruments 0.1 0.1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 345.4 345.4 31 December 2016 Derivative financial instruments 1.1 1.1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 337.0 337.0 There have been no transfers between levels in 2017.
No other financial instruments are held at fair value.
Capital Management The capital structure of the Group consists of the following items: 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 67.5 55.8 Bank loans 329.5 322.0 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 834.4 596.0 1,231.4 973.8 The Board of Directors constantly monitors the ongoing capital requirements of the business and has reviewed the current gearing ratio, being the ratio of bank debt to equity and considers it appropriate for the Groups current circumstances.
Ratios used in the monitoring of debt capital include the ratio of Adjusted EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent EBITDA to net finance charges.
The Groups objective when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business, to provide returns for shareholders and to optimise the capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The Board of Directors monitors both the demographic spread of shareholders, as well as the return on capital, which the Group defines as total shareholders equity and the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Operating Leases Non-cancellable operating lease rental commitments for land and buildings are as follows: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Less than one year 108.2 102.7 Between one and five years 410.4 390.7 More than five years 1,106.8 1,161.9 1,625.4 1,655.3 The total future minimum sublease payments expected to be received are 18.4m 2016: 17.5m.
Lease Arrangements The Group enters into operating leases for sites in all territories in UK and Ireland and the ROW.
These leases are typically for 25 35 years with rent increases and options to renew leases determined in line with local market practice in each territory.
The key contractual terms of each lease are taken into consideration when calculating the rental charge over the lease term.
There are no significant restrictions placed on the Group as a result of its leasing arrangements.
122 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23.
Capital Commitments Capital commitments at the end of the financial year for which no provision has been made: 31 December 31 December 2017 2016 m m Contracted 23.4 44.7 Capital commitments at the end of the current and preceding financial year relate to new sites and refurbishment projects which have commenced.
Related Parties The compensation of the Directors is as follows: Salary and Compensation fees including for loss of Pension bonus office contributions Total 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2017 Total compensation for Directors 4,856 234 5,090 Salary and Compensation fees including for loss of Pension bonus office contributions Total 000 000 000 000 Year ended 31 December 2016 Total compensation for Directors 5,192 151 5,343 Share-based compensation benefit charges for Directors was 2.0m in 2017 2016: 2.3m.
Details of the highest paid Director can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 67.
Other Related Party Transactions Digital Cinema Media Limited DCM is a joint venture between the Group and Odeon Cinemas Holdings Limited set up on 10July 2008.
Revenue receivable from DCM in the year ended 31 December 2017 totalled 20.8m 2016: 18.3m and as at 31December 2017 3.8m 2016: Nil was due from DCM in respect of receivables.
In addition, the Group has a working capital loan outstanding from DCM of 0.5m 2016: 0.5m.
During the year the Group incurred property charges of 8.7m by companies under the ownership of Global City Holdings N. V. GCH, which is considered a related party of the Group as Moshe Greidinger and Israel Greidinger are directors in both groups.
Details of subsidiaries held by the Group can be found in Note 29.
Post Balance Sheet Events On the 5 December 2017, the Group announced the proposed acquisition of Regal by means of an acquisition of the entire issued, and to be issued, share capital of Regal.
The acquisition was based on an implied enterprise value of US$5.8bn.
Due to the size of the proposed acquisition it was classed as a reverse takeover under the UK Listing Rules.
The acquisition of Regal completed on 28 February 2018.
Consideration for the acquisition of $3.4bn was settled fully in cash, funded by the proceeds of the fully underwritten Rights Issues at the Rights Issue Price of 157.0 pence per New Ordinary Share, which raised 1.7bn, plus an additional US$4.1bn was raised through committed Debt Facilities.
The restructured debt arrangement consists of a US Dollar and Euro term loan totalling $4.1bn and a $300.0m revolving credit facility.
The previous financing arrangements in place as at 31 December 2017 for the Group and Regal have been terminated and superseded by the new financing arrangements from 28 February 2018.
As the consideration was entirely paid in cash the acquisition is expected to be accounted for as an acquisition under IFRS 3 rather than as a reverse takeover acquisition under IFRS 3, notwithstanding the size of the acquisition.
Given the timing of the acquisition being post the year end and so close to the approval date of the 2017 financial statements, the accounting for the acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3 has not yet been prepared and completed and is therefore not disclosed in these financial statements.
