152 MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GLOSSARY Key terms Definition Adjusted EPS Adjusted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders, adjusted for exceptional items, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Cluster A group of attractions located in a city close to one another.
Constant currency growth Using 2017 exchange rates.
DreamWorks Tours Shreks This attraction opened in 2015.
It is part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
EBITDA Profit before finance income and costs, taxation, depreciation and amortisation and after taking account of attributable profit after tax of joint ventures.
EU GDPR EU General Data Protection Regulation.
Exceptional items Due to their nature, certain one-off and non-trading items can be classified as exceptional in order to draw them to the attention of the reader and to show the underlying business performance more accurately.
Existing estate EE EE comprises all attractions other than new openings.
High year Year of high spend in capital investment cycle of an attraction.
IRR Internal Rate of Return.
KIRKBI KIRKBI owns 75% of LEGO A S and owns 29.72% of the share capital of Merlin Entertainments plc.
LDC LEGOLAND Discovery Centre attractions.
These are part of the Midway Attractions Operating Group.
Lead price Face value of a ticket, which may then be discounted.
Like for like LFL 2017 LFL growth refers to the growth between 2016 and 2017 on a constant currency basis using 2017 exchange rates and includes all businesses owned and operated before the start of 2016.
Listing Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Little BIG City This is a new attraction that opened in 2017.
LLP LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group.
Merlin Magic Making MMM MMM is the unique resource that sits at the heart of everything Merlin does.
It is our specialist in-house site-search and business development: creative design: production: and project management team.
MMM also pursues acquisition and investment opportunities.
Merlins Magic Wand MMW MMW forms a key element of Merlins Corporate Social Responsibility commitment.
Our very own childrens charity delivers magical experiences around the world to children who are disadvantaged through sickness and disability.
Midway or Midway attractions The Midway Attractions Operating Group and or the Midway attractions within it.
Midway attractions are typically smaller, indoor attractions located in city centres, resorts or shopping malls.
Net Promoter Score How we measure the propensity of our customers to recommend our attractions.
New Business Development NBD relates to attractions that are newly opened or under development for future opening, together with the NBD addition of new accommodation at existing sites.
New openings can include both Midway attractions and new theme parks.
NBD combines with the existing estate to give the full estate of attractions.
Operating free cash flow EBITDA less existing estate capex.
MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 153 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 Key terms Definition Organic growth Growth from like for like businesses and new business development at constant currency and excluding growth from acquisitions.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
The profit measure used in calculating ROCE is based on underlying operating profit after tax.
The capital employed element of the calculation is based on average net operating assets which include all net assets other than deferred tax, derivative financial assets and liabilities, and net debt.
ROIC Return on Invested Capital.
Incremental EBITDA divided by the capital invested.
Rooms A single accommodation unit at one of our theme parks, for example a hotel room, lodge or glamping tent.
RPC Revenue per capita, defined as visitor revenue divided by number of visitors.
RTP Resort Theme Parks Operating Group.
SLC SEA LIFE Centre aquarium attractions.
Second gate A visitor attraction at an existing resort with a separate entrance and for which additional admission fees arecharged.
The Code UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Merlin Way The culture of the Group which encompasses our vision and values.
Top Box The highest level of customer satisfaction that we record in our customer surveys.
Underlying Underlying information presented excludes exceptional items that are classified separately within the financial statements.
Visitors Represents all individual visits to Merlin owned or operated attractions.
Wizard Wants to Know WWTK is our annual online employee survey.
WWTK Terms used Unless otherwise stated, the terms Merlin, Merlin Entertainments, the Group, We and Us refer to the Company Merlin Entertainments plc and, as applicable, its subsidiaries and or interests in joint ventures.
Percentages are calculated based on figures before rounding and are then rounded to one decimal place.
