132 | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Financial calendar 14 March 2018 Preliminary announcement of 2017 results 7 June 2018 Annual General Meeting 29 June 2018 2018 financial half year end 29 June 2018 subject to shareholder approval Payment of 2017 final dividend 1 August 2018 provisional Announcement of interim results 26 October 2018 provisional Payment of 2018 interim dividend 28 December 2018 Financial period end Forward-looking statements Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report or This Annual Report and the Dignity plc investor website may the Dignity plc investor website, or made subsequently, which are contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to Dignity attributable to the Company or any other member of the Group, or plc Company and the Groups financial condition, results of its persons acting on their behalf, are expressly qualied in their entirety operations and business, and certain plans, strategy, objectives, by the factors referred to in this statement.
Each forward-looking goals and expectations with respect to these items and the statement speaks only as of the date it is made.
Except as required economies and markets in which the Group operates.
by its legal or statutory obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identied by their use of a date in the future or such words as Nothing in this Annual Report or on the Dignity plc investor website anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, will, would, expects, should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each the securities of the Company.
case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By their very nature forward-looking statements are inherently unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Dignity is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
We own 826 funeral locations and operate 45 crematoria in the United Kingdom and have a strong market presence in pre-arranged funeral plans, where people plan and pay for their funeral in advance.
We are here to help people at one of the most dicult times in their lives and we are honoured to serve the local communities we are part of with expertise, compassion and total commitment.
We strive to set the highest possible standards in our facilities and in the funeral service and care we provide.
Delivering excellent client service in an evolving digital age and in an increasingly competitive funeral sector is core to our strategy.
In this way we are well positioned to provide the best quality service at each price point and market segment we choose to compete in.
IFC | Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 We are Dignity Contents Overview 01 Key financial highlights 02 Dignity at a glance Strategic Report 04 From the Chairman 06 Chief Executives review 14 Strategy and business model 16 Key performance indicators 18 The Dignity client survey 2017 19 Our summary performance in 2017 20 Operating review 27 Financial review 32 Principal risks and uncertainties 37 Corporate and social responsibility Governance 44 Chairmans introduction to governance 45 Governance structure 46 Board ofDirectors 48 Executive Management Team 49 Directors statement on corporate governance 53 Audit Committee report 56 Nomination Committee report 58 Report on Directors remuneration 72 Directors report Financial Statements Group Accounts 75 Independent auditors report to the members of Dignity plc 82 Consolidated income statement 82 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 83 Consolidated balance sheet 84 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 85 Consolidated statement of cash ows 86 Notes to the financial statements Company Accounts 120 Dignity plc Company balance sheet 121 Dignity plc Company statement of changes in equity Acknowledgements 122 Notes to the Dignity plc financial statements Dignity would like to thank all those who participated in producing this Annual Report, particularly the members ofstaff for their contributions.
128 Financial record Designed & produced by Bexon Woodhouse Main photography by Bexon Woodhouse www.
com Guide to icons Other Information Printed in the UK by CPI Colour, a certied CarbonNeutral 130 Shareholder information printing company, using vegetable based inks and water based sealants.
The printer and paper manufacturing 131 Contact details and advisers We have used icons throughout this Annual Report to guide you to further mill are both certied with ISO 14001 Environmental reading, links to other relevant information or to find out more online.
132 Financial calendar Management systems standards and both are Forest Stewardship Council FSC certied.
Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Delivering excellent client service in an evolving digital age and increasingly competitive funeral sector Dignity plc 4 King Edwards Court King Edwards Square Sutton Coldeld West Midlands B73 6AP www.
