MERLIN ENTERTAINMENTS PLC 89 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for keeping We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, The Directors are responsible for preparing the adequate accounting records that are taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Annual Report and the Group and parent sufficient to show and explain the parent understandable and provides the information Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Companys transactions and disclose with necessary for shareholders to assess the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Groups position and performance, business Company law requires the Directors to position of the parent Company and enable model and strategy.
prepare Group and parent Company financial them to ensure that its financial statements statements for each financial year.
Under comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They Nick Varney that law they are required to prepare the are responsible for such internal control as Group financial statements in accordance with Chief Executive Officer they determine is necessary to enable the International Financial Reporting Standards 28 February 2018 preparation of financial statements that are as adopted by the European Union IFRSs free from material misstatement, whether as adopted by the EU and applicable law Anne-Francoise Nesmes due to fraud or error, and have general and have elected to prepare the parent Chief Financial Officer responsibility for taking such steps as are Company financial statements in accordance 28 February 2018 reasonably open to them to safeguard the with UK accounting standards including FRS assets of the Group and to prevent and 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under company law the Directors must Under applicable law and regulations, not approve the financial statements unless the Directors are also responsible for they are satisfied that they give a true and preparing a Strategic Report, Directors fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Report, Directors Remuneration Report and parent Company and of their profit or and Corporate Governance Statement that loss for that period.
In preparing each of complies with that law and those regulations.
the Group and parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate Select suitable accounting policies and then and financial information included on the apply them consistently.
Legislation in the UK Make judgements and estimates that are governing the preparation and dissemination reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent.
of financial statements may differ from For the Group financial statements, state legislation in other jurisdictions.
whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: For the parent Company financial The financial statements, prepared in statements, state whether applicable UK accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards have been followed, accounting standards, give a true and fair subject to any material departures disclosed view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and explained in the parent Company and profit or loss of the Company and the financial statements.
undertakings included in the consolidation Assess the Group and parent Companys taken as a whole.
ability to continue as a going concern, The Directors Report and the other disclosing, as applicable, matters related to sections of this report referred to therein going concern.
include a fair review of the development and Use the going concern basis of accounting performance of the business and the position unless they either intend to liquidate the of the issuer and the undertakings included Group or the parent Company or to cease in the consolidation taken as a whole, operations, or have no realistic alternative together with a description of the principal but to do so.
risks and uncertainties that they face.
