Our Financials An overview of the scope of our audit This was our first year as auditor of Ocado and as such our audit approach included an investment of time to understand the business.
We reviewed the audit work papers of the previous auditor, visited each of the three operating Customer Fulfilment Centres CFCs and met with senior management across the group and members of the Audit Committee.
We gained a detailed understanding of key processes and controls supporting the groups transactions and assessed the risks of material misstatement for each account balance or disclosure item.
Taken together, this informed our group audit scope.
As set out in note 2.2 to the financial statements, during the year the group started to consider performance for two segments: the established online retail and distribution business: and the Ocado Solutions business set up to exploit the groups significant investment in technology.
The first new deals for this business were signed in the period and the results for the existing Morrisons contract were included in the segment.
Our audit procedures cover both segments.
The scope of our group audit includes all significant trading companies in the UK, including the joint venture with Morrisons.
The results taken together for these entities account for over 97% of the groups revenue, profit after tax and net assets.
For the entities not subject to detailed audit work, the groups captive insurance company in Malta and the development operations in Poland and Spain, we tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion there were no material misstatements in the aggregated financial information.
All entities are managed from one central location in the UK and all audit work is completed by the group audit team, led by the Senior Statutory Auditor.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the We have nothing to report in annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee: or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the groups and the parent companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
