GLOSSARY DPV means deliveries per van per week.
2014 ESOS means the Ocado 2014 Executive Companies Act means the Companies Act 2006.
A Company means Ocado Group plc, a company EBITDA means the non-GAAP measure which incorporated in England and Wales with registered 2016 Code means the UK Corporate Governance Ocado has defined as earnings before net finance Code published by the FRC in April 2016. number 07098618 whose registered office is at costs, taxation, depreciation, amortisation, A Buildings 1 & 2 Trident Place, Hatfield Business Park, impairment and exceptional items.
Active Customers means customers who have Mosquito Way, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9UL.
shopped with Ocado in the previous 12 weeks.
EBT as relating to the Income Statement, means Corporate Website means www.
As relating to share schemes, Administrative Expenses means all IT com.
costs, advertising and marketing expenditure, employment costs of all head office functions, CR means Corporate Responsibility.
EBT Trustee means the trustee from time to which include legal, finance, human resources, time of the employee benefit trust established for CSTM means Customer Service Team Member, marketing and procurement, rent and other the purposes of the JSOS, currently Estera Trust the title given to our customer facing delivery property-related costs for the head office, all fees Jersey Limited.
for professional services and the depreciation, EPS means earning per share.
amortisation and impairment associated with Customer Fulfilment Centre or CFC means a head office IT equipment, software, fixtures and dedicated highly automated warehouse used for ESOS means the HMRC-approved Ocado 2001 fittings and expenses relating to the Groups share the operation of the business.
The CFCs are: CFC1 Executive Share Option Scheme and the Ocado schemes.
in Hatfield, CFC2 in Dordon, CFC3 in Andover and 2001 Non-HMRC approved Executive Share Option CFC4 in Erith under construction.
Admission means the admission of the ordinary A shares of the Company to the premium listing Deloitte means Deloitte LLP, the Group's Exceptional Items means items that due to segment of the Official List and to trading on the statutory auditor or the Group's advisers in respect their material and non-recurring nature have been London Stock Exchanges main market for listed of non-audit services.
classified separately in order to draw them to the securities which occurred on 26 July 2010. attention of the reader of the financial statements.
Directors means the Directors of the Company AGM means the Annual General Meeting of the whose names and biographies are set out on Executive Directors means Tim Steiner, Neill Company, which will be held on 2 May 2018 at pages 116 and 117 with the exception of Alex Abrams, Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson.
11 am at Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet Street, Mahon who was a director of the Company Fabled.
com means the Groups premium beauty London, EC4A 2BB.
during the period but who retired from the Board online store in collaboration with Marie Claire and following the period end, and Luke Jensen, who American Depositary Receipts means Time Inc. will join the Board with effect from 1 March 2018 or securities that have been created to permit US the Directors of the Companys subsidiaries from Fetch.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated investors to hold shares in non-US companies time to time as the context may require.
and, in a Level 1 programme, to trade them on the over-the-counter market in the United States.
Directors Remuneration Policy means the Financial Period means the 52-week period, or Directors remuneration policy that the Company 53-week period where relevant, ending the closest Annual Incentive Plan or AIP means the which was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Sunday to 30 November.
Executive Director incentive plan for the Group annual general meeting and which is set out on applicable to a particular financial year.
Financial Year or FY see Financial Period.
Articles means the articles of association of the FRC means the Financial Reporting Council.
2014 Directors Remuneration Policy means Company.
the Directors remuneration policy which was GAAP means generally accepted accounting Beauty MIP means the management incentive approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual principles.
plan for key management of Marie Claire Beauty general meeting and which is set out on pages GDPR means General Data Protection Limited.
87 to 97 of the 2015 annual report and accounts Regulation.
and on the Companys corporate website at www.
Board means the Board of Directors of the ocadogroup.
GHG means greenhouse gas es.
Company or its subsidiaries from time to time as the context may require.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules GIP means the Growth Incentive Plan.
means the disclosure guidance and transparency Brexit means the UKs decision to leave the GMDC means the General Merchandise rules made under Part VI of the Financial Services European Union following the referendum on Distribution Centre in Welwyn Garden City, a and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
23 June 2016. dedicated highly automated warehouse used for Distribution Costs means all the costs incurred, the operation of the business.
Chairmans Share Matching Award means a excluding product costs, to the point of sale, one-off award of shares to Lord Rose, made in GPP means the Ocado Group Pension Plan.
This includes the May 2013. payroll-related expenses for the picking, dispatch A Gross Sales means sales net of returns, and delivery of product sold to the point of sale, Cash LTIP means the Companys cash-based including charges for delivery, before deducting the cost of making those deliveries, including fuel, Long Term Incentive Plan for senior employees.
relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
tolls, maintenance of vehicles, the operating costs Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off Code means the UK Corporate Governance of the properties required for the picking, dispatch coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multiCode published by the FRC in September 2014. and onward delivery operations and all associated buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges, See Alternative Performance This includes sales from ocado.
co. uk, A call centre costs and payment processing charges.
Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 194 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM
