Additional Information Group means Ocado Group plc, its subsidiaries, Morrisons means Wm Morrison Supermarkets Senior Secured Notes or Notes - means the significant undertakings and affiliated companies PLC, a company incorporated in the UK with Company's offering of 250 million Senior Secured under its control or common control.
registered number 353949, whose registered office Notes due 2024 at a coupon of 4% and an issue is at Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, West price of 100%.
For more details, see page 113.
HMRC means Her Majestys Revenue & Customs.
Shareholder means a holder for the time being IAS means International Accounting Standard s. Morrisons.
com means Morrisons online retail of ordinary shares in the Company.
IFRIC means International Financial Reporting Sharesave Scheme or SAYE Scheme means Standards Interpretations Committee.
the Ocado employee savings-related share option Net Finance Costs means finance income less finance costs.
Finance income is composed plan approved by HMRC.
IFRS means International Financial Reporting principally of bank interest and other interest.
Standard s. SIP means the Share Incentive Plan.
Finance cost is composed of interest on bank IGD means the Institute of Grocery Distribution.
loans and overdrafts, interest on finance leases Sizzle.
co. uk means the Groups dedicated and interest on other financing arrangements.
online kitchen and dining store.
Non-Executive Directors means the nonSKU means a stock keeping unit, that is each ISA UK & Ireland means International executive Directors of the Company designated as line of stock.
Standard on Auditing in the UK and Ireland.
Smart Pass previously Saving Pass means John Lewis means John Lewis plc, the parent Notice of Meeting means the notice of the the Ocado pre-pay membership scheme which company of Waitrose, incorporated in the UK with Companys AGM.
includes the delivery pricing scheme previously registered number 233462 whose registered office known as Delivery Pass and the discount is at 171 Victoria Street, London, SW1E 5NN.
com means the Groups online retail membership scheme formerly known as Saving business.
JSOS means the Groups Joint Share Ownership Pass.
It comprises three issues called JSOS1, Ocado Council means the Ocado forum used to Sourcing Agreement means the various JSOS2 and JSOS3.
sourcing and branding agreements between KPI means key performance indicators.
Ocado Smart Platform or OSP means the endOcado, Waitrose and John Lewis.
to-end solution for operating online in the grocery KPMG means KPMG LLP.
Spoke means the trans-shipment sites used for market, which has been developed by the Group.
the intermediate handling of customers orders.
LIBOR means the London Interbank Offered Ocado Solutions - means the Group's Solutions Rate.
Substitution means an alternative product business.
provided in place of the original product ordered Listing Rules means the Listing Rules made OPW means orders per week.
by the UK Listing Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as Other Income means primarily revenue for TSR means total shareholder return the amended.
advertising services provided by Ocado to growth in value of a shareholding over a specified suppliers and other third parties on the Webshop, period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to LPP means Low Price Promise, the Ocado commission income and sublease payments.
purchase additional units of the stock.
vouchering scheme which entitles customers to Other income is recognised in the period to which receive discount vouchers where their shopping UPH means average units processed per labour it relates on an accruals basis.
basket has cost more than it would have at hour.
Participants means eligible staff who USDAW means the Union of Shop, Distributive participate in one of the Companys staff share LTIP means the Companys Long Term Incentive and Allied Workers.
Plan for Executive Directors and selected senior Waitrose means Waitrose Limited, a company managers.
Prospectus means the Companys prospectus incorporated in the UK with registered number dated 6 July 2010 prepared in connection with the Management Committee means senior 00099405, whose registered office is at 171 Victoria Companys Admission.
management responsible for managing the dayStreet, London, SW1E 5NN.
to-day operations of the business.
PwC means  LLP, the Webshop means the customer facing Groups former statutory auditor or the Groups MHE means mechanical handling equipment.
internet-based virtual shop accessible via the advisers in respect of non-audit services.
com, MHE JVCo means MHE JVCo Limited, a company R&D means Research and Development.
incorporated in the UK with registered number 8576462, whose registered office is at Buildings 1 & Revenue means online sales net of returns 2 Trident Place, Hatfield Business Park, Mosquito through the Webshop and Ocado on the Go, Way, Hatfield, AL10 9UL.
MHE JVCo is jointly including charges for delivery, but excluding owned by a Group subsidiary and Morrisons.
relevant vouchers, offers and value added tax.
The recharge of costs to Morrisons and fees charged to Morrisons and other solutions clients are also included in Revenue.
Relevant vouchers and offers include money-off coupons, conditional spend vouchers and multi-buy offers, such as buy three for the price of two.
