ALTERNATIVE Performance Measures The Group assesses its performance using a variety of alternative performance A reconciliation from reported distribution and administrative costs, the most directly measures which are not defined under IFRS and are therefore termed non-GAAP comparable IFRS measures, to the segment distribution and administrative costs, is measures.
These measures provide additional useful information on the underlying set out below.
2017 2016 trends, performance and position of the Group.
The non-GAAP measures we used are: m m 52 Week Comparative for the 2017 Financial Year: Retail distribution and administrative costs 356.1 301.4 Gross Sales: Solutions distribution and administrative costs 115.1 93.9 Segment Revenue: Unsegmented distribution and Exceptional Items: administrative costs 80.7 71.0 Segment Administrative Costs and Distribution Costs: 551.9 466.3 EBITDA: 2017 2016 Segment EBITDA: m m External Gross Debt: and Reported distribution costs 434.2 365.7 Net Debt.
Reported administrative expenses 117.7 100.6 A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest measure prepared 551.9 466.3 in accordance with IFRS is presented below.
The alternative performance measures used may not be directly comparable with similarly titled measures used by other EBITDA companies.
In addition to measuring its financial performance based on operating profit, the Group also measures performance based on EBITDA.
EBITDA is defined as the 52 Week Comparative for the 2017 Financial Year Group earnings before depreciation, amortisation, impairment, net finance expense, As a predominately retail business, the business has a 53 week financial year every taxation and exceptional items.
EBITDA is a common measure used by investors and 56 years.
The business have removed the last trading week of the 2017 financial year analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies.
to aid comparability for the users.
These comparable numbers are not highlighted throughout the report.
The Group considers EBITDA to be a useful measure of its operating performance because it approximates the underlying operating cash flow by eliminating Gross Sales depreciation and amortisation.
EBITDA is not a direct measure of liquidity, which is Gross Sales is a measure of reported revenue before excluding value added tax and shown by the cash flow statement, and needs to be considered in the context of the relevant vouchers and offers.
Gross Sales is a common measure used by investors Group's financial commitments.
and analysts to evaluate the operating financial performance of companies within the A reconciliation from operating profit to EBITDA can be found on the face of the retail sector.
Consolidated Income Statement on page 127.
A reconciliation from reported revenue to Gross Sales can be found in Note 2.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Segment EBITDA EBITDA Retail EBITDA Solutions The financial performance of the Group's segments is measured based on EBITDA, as Segment Revenue Revenue Retail Revenue Solutions reported internally.
Segment revenue is a measure of reported revenue for the Group's Retail and A reconciliation of EBITDA for the segments to EBITDA for the Group can be found in Solutions segments.
A reconciliation of revenue for the segments to revenue for the Group can be found in note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
note 2.2 to the consolidated financial statements.
External Gross Debt Exceptional Items External gross debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and nonThe Groups Consolidated Income Statement separately identifies trading current, less finance leases payable to joint venture interests of the Group.
The Directors believe that presentation of the Groups results in this way is relevant to an understanding of the Groups financial External gross debt is a measure of the Groups indebtedness to third parties which performance.
This presentation is consistent with the way that financial performance are not considered a related party to the Group.
is measured by management and reported to the Board and assists in providing A reconciliation from external gross debt to gross debt can be found below.
a meaningful analysis of the trading results of the Group.
This also facilitates 2017 2016 comparison with prior periods to assess trends in financial performance more readily.
m m The Group applies judgement in identifying significant non-recurring items of income External gross debt 283.9 107.1 and expense that are recognised as exceptional to help provide an indication of Finance leases relating to joint ventures 94.1 108.7 the Groups underlying business.
In determining whether an event or transaction Gross debt 378.0 215.8 is exceptional in nature, management considers quantitative as well as qualitative Net Debt factors such as the frequency or predictability of occurrence.
Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less cash Examples of items that the Group considers exceptional include, but are not and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured as the net proceeds limited to, material costs relating to the opening of a new warehouse, corporate raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
reorganisations, material litigation, and any material costs, outside of the normal Net debt is a measure of the Groups net indebtedness that provides an indicator of the course of business as determined by management.
It is also a single measure that can be used to assess the Exceptional items are disclosed in Note 2.7 to the consolidated financial statements.
combined impact of the Groups cash position and its indebtedness.
The use of the term net debt does not necessarily mean that the cash included in the net debt calculation is Segment Administrative Costs and Distribution Costs available to settle the liabilities included in this measure.
Segment distribution and administrative costs are measures which seek to reflect the performance of the Groups segments in relation to the long-term sustainable Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure as it is not defined in IFRS.
These measures exclude the impact of certain costs that are not The most directly comparable IFRS measure is the aggregate of loans and other borrowings allocated to a segment: depreciation, amortisation, impairment and other central current and non-current and cash and cash equivalents.
A reconciliation from these measures to net debt can be found in Note 4.4 in the consolidated financial statements.
Adjusted to exclude exceptional items and share of result from joint venture.
com orders and includes standalone orders for Fetch.
This is after cancelled orders are deducted.
Average order size excludes destination sites from 2014 onwards, prior to this destination sites were not material.
Mature CFC operations CFC is considered mature if it had been open 12 months by the start of the half year reporting period.
See Alternative Performance A Measures on page 196 Stock Code: OCDO | www.
com 197 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM FINANCIAL Calendar 20 March 2018 Q1 Trading Statement 2 May 2018 Annual General Meeting 10 July 2018 Half Year Results Announcement 18 September 2018 Q3 Trading Statement 13 December 2018 Q4 Trading Statement 5 February 2019 Final Results Announcement COMPANY Information Registered office: Buildings One & Two Trident Place Mosquito Way Hatfield Hertfordshire AL10 9UL Company number: 07098618 Independent auditors: Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ Registrars: Link Market Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4ZF All Intellectual Property Rights in the content and materials in this Annual Report vests in and are owned absolutely by Ocado unless otherwise indicated, including in respect of or in connection with but not limited to all trade marks and the Reports design, text, graphics, its selection and arrangement.
Sobeys is a trade mark of Sobeys Inc. Casino and Groupe Casino are trade marks of Casino, Guichard-Perrachon Morrisons is a trade mark of Wm Morrisons Supermarkets plc Oxbotica, Selenium and Caesium are trade marks of Oxbotica Limited Copyright Ocado 2018 Ocado Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts for the 53 weeks ended 3 December 2017 198 25615 Proof 8 6 February 2018 12:13 AM
