William Hill PLC 158 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Group Accounting Policies General information William Hill PLC is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office isGreenside House, 50 Station Road, London N22 7TP.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 50 and note 2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the currency of the primary economic environment in which theGroup operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with our accounting policies.
Basis of accounting The Group financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB and endorsed by the European Union.
The Group financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except where certain assets or liabilities are held at amortised cost or at fair value as described in our accounting policies.
The key accounting policies adopted are set out on page 114.
Below is a complete list of the remaining accounting policies adopted.
Adoption of new and revised standards In preparing the Group financial statements for the current period the Group has adopted the following new IFRSs, amendments to IFRSs and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations, none of which have had a significant effect on the results or net assets of the Group: IAS 1 amended Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 16 amended Property, plant and equipment IAS 27 amended Separate financial statements IAS 38 amended Intangible assets IFRS 5 amended Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations IFRS 10 amended Consolidated financial statements IFRS 11 amended Joint arrangements IFRS 14 Regulatory deferral accounts Standards in issue but not effective At the date of authorisation of the Group financial statements, the following Standards, amendments and Interpretations, which have notbeen applied in these Group financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: New standards IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts Amendments and interpretations IAS 7 amended Statement of Cash Flows IAS 12 amended Income taxes IAS 28 amended Investments in associates and joint ventures IAS 40 amended Investment property IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IFRS 2 amended Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions IFRS 12 amended Disclosure of Interests in other entities IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces IAS 39 and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group has performed a high-level impact assessment of the key aspects of IFRS 9.
This preliminary assessment is based on currently available information and may be subject to changes in the future.
Classification and measurement New classification and measurement criteria require financial instruments to be classified into one of the three categories being amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income, or fair value through profit or loss.
The Group expects there to be nil impact based on our current profile of financial instruments, excluding those held relating to NYX, which have been disposed of in January 2018.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 159 Impairment IFRS 16 Leases will replace IAS 17 in its The results and assets and liabilities of entirety and is effective for accounting associates are incorporated in the Group IFRS 9 requires the Group to use an expected periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. financial statements using the equity method credit loss model for its financial assets It will result in most leases being recognised of accounting.
Interests in associates are measured at amortised cost, either on a on the Statement of Financial Position.
carried in the Statement of Financial Position 12-month or a lifetime basis.
The Group The Group continues to assess the full impact at cost asadjusted by post-acquisition financial assets at amortised cost currently of IFRS 16 but since the impact is influenced changes in the Groups share of the net assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, trade by interest rates in future years, it is not yet of theentity, less any impairment in thevalue receivables and loans receivable.
None of possible to reasonably quantify its effects.
Losses of the these financial assets have a significant At this stage, the directors assess that associates in excess ofthe Groups interest in financing component and the Group expects the implementation of the new standard those entities are not recognised.
to apply the simplified approach and will likely have a material impact upon the record lifetime expected losses on all trade Any excess of the cost of acquisition over Groups reported performance, Statement of receivables and loans receivable measured at the Groups share of the fair values of the Financial Position and operating cash flows.
The Group does not expect identifiable net assets of the entity at the these changes will have a significant impact.
We do not anticipate a material impact date ofacquisition is recognised as goodwill on the results or net assets of the Group within the interests in associates line.
Hedge accounting from any other standards, amendments Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition or interpretations that are in issue but not below the Groups share of the fair values The general hedge accounting mechanism of yet effective.
of the identifiable net assets of the entity IAS 39 has been retained, however greater at the date of acquisition i. e. discount flexibility has been introduced over the on acquisition is credited to the Income instruments eligible for hedge accounting and Basis of consolidation Statement in the period of acquisition.
The changes relating to The Group financial statements incorporate hedge accounting are not expected to impact the financial statements of the Company Where a Group Company transacts with an the Group.
and entities controlled by the Company associate of the Group, profits and losses its subsidiaries up to 26 December 2017. are eliminated to the extent of the Groups IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts Control is achieved where the Company with customers establishes a single interest in the relevant entity.
Losses may has the power to govern the financial and provide evidence of an impairment of the comprehensive model for entities to use in operating policies of an investee entity so as accounting for revenue arising from contracts asset transferred, inwhich case appropriate to obtain benefits from its activities.
provision is made for impairment.
with customers, with an effective date for accounting periods beginning on or after The results of subsidiaries acquired or 1 January 2018.
Under IFRS 15, an entity Goodwill disposed of during the period are included in recognises revenue when a performance the Consolidated Income Statement fromthe Goodwill arising on consolidation represents obligation is satisfied, i. e. when control of the effective date of acquisition or up to the the excess of the cost of acquisition over goods or services underlying the particular effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
the Groups interest in the fair value ofthe performance obligation is transferred to identifiable assets and liabilities, including the customer.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to separately identifiable intangible assets, of the financial statements of subsidiaries to a subsidiary, associate or jointly controlled The Groups core revenues of sports betting bring the accounting policies used into line entity at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is and gaming are not within the scope of with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group initially recognised as an asset at cost and IFRS 15.
Other operating income mostly transactions, balances, income and expenses is subsequently measured atcost less any represents rents receivable on properties are eliminated onconsolidation.
let by the Group, bookmaking software licensing income, bookmaking services income On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or jointly Business combinations and income from software development.
controlled entity, the attributable amount of On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and Rents receivable is also not within the scope goodwill is included in the determination of contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are of IFRS 15. the profit or loss on disposal.
measured at their fair values at the date Early assessment of the new standard of acquisition.
Anyexcess of the cost of Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the suggests that the performance obligations acquisition over the fair values of the date of transition to IFRS has been retained of bookmaking software licensing income, identifiable net assets acquired, including at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to bookmaking services income and income separately identifiable intangible assets, impairment testing.
from software development are satisfied is recognised as goodwill.
Any discount on over time and that the method currently used acquisition, i. e. where the cost of acquisition Investment income to measure the progress towards complete is below the fair values of the identifiable net satisfaction of these performance obligations Interest income assets acquired, is credited to the Income will continue to be appropriate under IFRS 15.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by Statement in the period of acquisition.
reference to the principal outstanding and at The Group expects there to be a nil impact the effective interest rateapplicable.
on the financial statements on adoption of Interests in associates IFRS 15.
An associate is an entity over which the Group Leasing is in a position to exercise significant influence, but not control or joint control, through Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer participation in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee.
substantially all the risks and rewards ofownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
William Hill PLC 160 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Group Accounting Policies continued Rentals payable under operating leases are Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for Retirement benefit costs charged to income on a straight-line basis taxable temporary differences arising on Payments to defined contribution retirement over the term of the relevant lease period.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, benefit schemes are charged as an expense except where theGroup is able to control the as they fall due.
Benefits received and receivable as an reversal of the temporary difference and it is incentive to enter into an operating lease are For defined benefit retirement schemes, probable that the temporary difference will also spread on a straight-line basis over the the cost of providing benefits is determined not reverse in the foreseeable future.
using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with The carrying amount of deferred tax assets actuarial valuations being carried out at each is reviewed at each period end date and Foreign currencies period end date.
Actuarial remeasurements reduced to the extent that it is no longer Transactions in currencies other than pounds are recognised infullinthe period in which probable that sufficient taxable profits will they occur.
Theyare recognised outside profit sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange be available to allow all or part of the asset to prevailing on the dates of thetransactions.
or loss and presented in the Statement of be recovered.
At each period end date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that The net retirement benefit asset or obligation currencies are re-translated at the rates are expected to apply in the period when the recognised in the Statement of Financial prevailing on the period end date.
Nonliability is settled or the asset is realised based Position represents the present value of monetary assets and liabilities carried at ontax laws and rates that have been enacted the definedbenefit obligation as adjusted fair value that aredenominated in foreign at the period end date.
Deferred tax is for unrecognised past service cost and as currencies are translated at the rates charged or credited in the Income Statement, reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
prevailing at the date when the fair value except when it relates to items charged or Any asset resulting from this calculation is was determined.
Gains and losses arising credited directly to equity, in which case the limited to past service cost plus the present on retranslation are included in net profit deferred tax is also dealt with inequity.
value of available refunds and reductions in or loss for the period, except for exchange future contributions to the plan.
differences arising on non-monetary assets Internally generated intangible and liabilities, where the changes in fair value assets computer software and Taxation are recognised directly inequity.
systems The tax expense represents the sum of the In order to hedge its exposure to certain Expenditure on initial investigation and tax currently payable and deferred tax.
foreign exchange risks, the Group makes research of computer software and systems efforts to match its foreign currency assets The tax currently payable is based on taxable is recognised as an expense in the period and liabilities andwhere necessary the Group profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs inwhich it isincurred.
takes out foreign currency hedges.
from net profit as reported in the Income An internally generated intangible asset Statement because it excludes items of On consolidation, the assets and liabilities arising from the Groups development of income or expense that are taxable or of the Groups overseas operations are computer systems is recognised only if all deductible in other periods and it further translated at exchange rates prevailing atthe ofthe following conditions are met: excludes items that are never taxable or period end date.
Income and expense items deductible.
The Groups liability for current an asset is created that can be identified are translated at the average exchange rates tax is calculated using tax rates that have such as software and new processes : for the period unless exchange rates fluctuate been enacted or substantively enacted by significantly, inwhich case the spot rate for it is probable that the asset created will theperiod end date.
Exchange differences generate future economic benefits: and arising, ifany, are classified as equity and Deferred tax is the tax expected to be the development cost of the asset can be transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
payable or recoverable on differences measured reliably.
Such translation differences are recognised as between the carrying amounts of assets Internally generated intangible assets income or as expenses in the period in which and liabilities in the financial statements are amortised on a straight-line basis the operation is disposed of.
and the corresponding tax bases used in over their useful lives, generally between the computation of taxable profit, and is three andfive years.
Whereno internally accounted for using the liability method.
Finance costs generated intangible asset can be recognised, Deferred tax liabilities are generally Finance costs and income arising on interestdevelopment expenditure is recognised asan recognised for all taxable temporary bearing financial instruments carried at expense in the period in which it is incurred.
differences and deferred tax assets are amortised cost are recognised in the Income recognised to the extent that it is probable Statement using the effective interest that taxable profits will be available against Intangible assets licences rate method.
Finance costs include the which deductible temporary differences can Betting licences recognised in acquisitions amortisation of fees that are an integral part be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not are recorded at fair value.
They are judged of the effective finance cost of a financial recognised if the temporary difference arises to have an indefinite life and are accordingly instrument, including issue costs, and the from goodwill or from the initial recognition not amortised but are subject to annual amortisation of any other differences other than in a business combination of impairment reviews.
The directors consider between the amount initially recognised and other assets and liabilities in a transaction that the Groups licences have an indefinite the redemption price.
that affects neither the taxable profit nor the life owing to: thefact that the Group is a accounting profit.
significant operator in a well-established Profit before interest and tax market: the proven and sustained demand Profit before interest and tax is stated after for bookmaking services: andthe Groups the share of results of associates but before track record of successfully renewing its investment income and finance costs.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 161 Intangible assets arising on acquisitions Intangible assets arising on acquisitions are recorded at their fair value.
Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write off the valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on astraight-line basis over itsexpected useful life, as follows: Acquired brands assessed separately for each asset, with lives ranging up to five years Customer relationships between 18 months and eight years Bookmaking and mobile technology between three and five years Wagering lottery contracts ten to 12 years Property, plant and equipment Land and buildings held for use in the supply of goods or services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the Statement of Financial Position at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is provided on all property plant and equipment, other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Freehold buildings 50 years Long leasehold properties 50 years Short leasehold properties over the unexpired period of the lease Short leasehold improvements ten years Fixtures, fittings and equipment and motor vehicles at variable rates between three and ten years The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of property plant and equipment and intangible assets At each period end date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its goodwill, property plant and equipment and intangible assets to determine whether there isany indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset maybe impaired.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future pre-tax cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
This process is described in more detail in note 12 to the financial statements.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Other than for goodwill, where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the point that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit inprior periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as incomeimmediately.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees and operates an HMRC-approved Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme open to all eligible employees which allows the purchase of shares at a discount.
The cost to the Group of share-based payment plans is measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Fair value is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, adjusted forthe Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black-Scholes-Merton pricing formula.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based onmanagements best estimates, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Where relevant, thevalue of the option has also been adjusted to take into account any market conditions applicable to the option.
At each period end date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of nonmarket-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in profit or loss such that thecumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment in reserves.
SAYE share options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme orresign fromthe Group.
This results in accelerated recognition of the expenses that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.
William Hill PLC 162 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Statement of Group Accounting Policies continued For any derivative instrument that is part of Equity instruments Interest-bearing borrowings a hedging relationship which is designated Equity instruments issued by the Company Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded as effective, changes in the fair value of are recorded at the proceeds received, net of at the fair value of the proceeds received, the derivative financial instruments are direct issue costs.
net of discounts and direct issue costs.
Changes in the Finance charges, including the unwinding fair value of ineffective hedges, including of any discounts, premiums payable on Financial instruments the ineffective portion of effective hedges, settlement or redemption and direct issue Financial assets and financial liabilities are arerecognised immediately in the Income costs, are charged on an accrual basis to the recognised on the Groups Statement of Statement.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm Income Statement using the effective interest Financial Position when the Group becomes commitment or forecasted transaction method.
Subsequent toinitial recognition, a party tothecontractual provisions of results in the recognition of an asset or interest-bearing borrowings are stated at the instrument.
a liability, then, at the time the asset or amortised cost.
Any accrued finance costs liability is recognised, the associated gains or are included in accruals within trade and Cash and cash equivalents losses on the derivative that had previously other payables.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and been recognised in equity are included in short-term bank deposits held by the Group the initial measurement of the asset or Payables with an original maturity ofthreemonths liability.
For hedges that do not result in the Trade and other payables are not interestor less.
recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts bearing and are initially measured at deferred in equity are recognised in the line fair value, and subsequently at their Receivables of Income Statement relating to the hedged amortised cost.
Trade and other receivables do not item, in the same period in which the hedged carry any interest and are stated at their item affects net profit or loss.
Derivative financial instruments gross receivable value as reduced by and hedge accounting Hedge accounting is discontinued when appropriate allowances for estimated The Groups activities expose it to the risks of the hedging instrument expires or is sold, irrecoverable amounts.
changes in interest rates and foreign currency terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies Loans receivable exchange rates.
The Group may use fixed rate for hedgeaccounting.
At that time, any borrowings to hedge some of its interest rate cumulative gain or loss on the hedging Loans receivable comprise loans granted exposure.
The Group may make use of foreign instrument recognised in equity is retained to other parties which have fixed or currency forwards to hedge a proportion of in equity until the forecasted transaction determinable payments and are not quoted its largest net foreign currency transactional occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer in an active market.
These are measured at exposures.
Where possible and practicable, expected to occur, the net cumulative gain amortised cost, less any impairment, with the Group retains foreign currency cash or loss recognised in equity is transferred interest income recognised using the effective balances equivalent to its foreign currency to net profit or loss for the period.
liabilities to hedge its exposure to foreign Derivatives embedded in other financial Investments currency exchange rates.
The Group does instruments or other host contracts are not use derivative financial instruments for treated as separate derivatives when their Investments comprise shareholdings in speculative purposes.
risks and characteristics are not closely entities where the Group is not in a position related to those of host contracts and the to have control, joint control or significant The use of financial derivatives is governed by host contracts are not carried at fair value influence over the financial and operating the Groups policies approved by the Board of with unrealised gains or losses reported policy decisions of the entity.
These are directors, which provide written principles on in the Income Statement under other classified as available-for-sale financial the use of financial derivatives.
assets and are revalued to fair value at each All derivative financial instruments are initially period end with any fair value movements Ante post bets are carried at fair market value measured at fair value at the contract date recognised in other comprehensive income.
as they meet the definition of a derivative.
and are subsequently remeasured to their The fair value is measured based on the share The resulting gains and losses from bets fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
The net liability Changes in fair value of any derivative resulting from open positions is reported on Financial liabilities and equity instrument that is not part of a hedging the Statement of Financial Position under relationship are recognised immediately in the Financial liabilities and equity instruments the term Derivative financial instruments Income Statement.
are classified according to the substance of within financial liabilities under the term Held the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when and only when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or otherwise expire.
