GLOSSARY OF TERMS Adjusted EPRA earnings EPRA earnings adjusted to include development profits from the housebuilding operating segment, the amortisation of loan arrangement fees including the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates and tax associated with both of these company specific adjustments.
Adjusted EPRA earnings per share Adjusted EPRA earnings divided by the weighted number of shares in issue during the period excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust.
Adjusted gearing the level of the Groups net borrowings at amortised cost and excluding finance leases expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Average lease length the weighted average lease term to the first tenant break.
EPRA the European Public Real Estate Association, a body that has put forward recommendations for best practice in financial reporting by real estate companies.
EPRA earnings the Group profit for the year, excluding investment property revaluation gains losses, gains losses on disposal of investment properties and inventories and associated items, and movements in the fair value of financial instruments.
Each of these adjustments is made for both the Group and the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates and is net of current and deferred tax charges credits.
EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV net asset value, adjusted to include the fair value of inventories and exclude deferred tax on capital allowances and revaluations, and the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments.
EPRA net asset value per share EPRA net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust.
EPRA triple net asset value EPRA NNNAV the Group balance sheet net assets, adjusted to include the fair value of inventories.
Equivalent yield the weighted average income return after adding notional purchasers costs a property will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent is received annually in arrears.
Equivalent yield shift the movement in the equivalent yield of a property asset during the period.
Estimated rental value ERV the Groups external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of the property.
EU IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Gearing the level of the Groups net debt expressed as a percentage of net assets.
Gross development value GDV the sale value of property after construction.
High yielding portfolio income generating assets with high yields that provide the Group with opportunity for further development and value creation in the longer term.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards.
Interest net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments, amortisation of loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Investment portfolio income generating assets held for further optimisation through active asset management.
Land bank 100% of the land and property owned and controlled by the Group together with joint ventures and associates including land under option and development agreements.
Like-for-like adjusts a reported measure to exclude the impact of property acquisitions and disposals.
Loan-to-value LTV the level of the Groups net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the Groups property portfolio excluding valued assets held under finance leases representing amounts that could be used as security of that debt.
Market value an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash consideration on the date of valuation, as determined by the Groups external valuers.
In accordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective purchasers costs, including stamp duty, agent and legal fees.
Net asset value NAV equity attributable to owners of the Company.
Net asset value NAV per share net asset value divided by the number of ordinary shares in issue at the period end excluding shares held by The St. Modwen Properties PLC Employee Share Trust.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 178 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Net borrowings total borrowings at amortised cost and excluding finance leases and fair value movements on the Groups convertible bond less cash and cash equivalents.
Net debt total borrowings and finance leases including fair value movements in the Groups convertible bond less cash and cash equivalents.
Net initial yield NIY the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on the current annualised rental income, net of nonrecoverable outgoings as determined by the external valuers, expressed as a percentage of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed actual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation is in line with EPRA guidance.
Net rental income the rental income receivable in the period less non-recoverable property costs for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Operating costs administrative expenses plus net finance costs excluding the mark-to-market of derivative financial instruments, amortisation of loan arrangement fees and other non-cash items for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Other income other rental type income generated from the operating assets of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
Passing rent the annualised rental income of a property net of outstanding rent-free lease incentives.
Persimmon joint venture a series of commercial contracts with Persimmon to develop residential units on agreed sites within St. Modwens land bank.
Profit before all tax profit before tax stated before the deduction of tax payable by joint ventures and associates.
Project MoDEL Project MoDEL originally saw six former London-based RAF sites freed up for disposal and development as the MoD relocated to an integrated site at RAF Northolt.
VINCI St. Modwen VSM was appointed by the MoD in 2006 to secure planning consent to redevelop the six sites of which VSM disposed of four, retaining RAF Mill Hill and RAF Uxbridge.
The latter was removed from the MoD arrangement and transferred to a separate joint venture with VINCI in 2012.
Property portfolio investment properties and inventories of the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates comprising income producing properties together with residential and commercial assets, but excluding assets held under finance leases not subject to revaluation.
Property profits development profit before the deduction of net realisable value provisions made during the period plus gains on disposals of investments investment properties for the Group including its share of joint ventures and associates.
RICS Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
See-through calculated on a proportionally consolidated basis including the Groups share of its joint ventures and associates.
See-through loan-to-value excluding residential see-through net borrowings expressed as a percentage of the see-through property portfolio excluding assets held under finance leases and residential land and developments.
Total accounting return TAR the increase in net asset value per share for the period, plus dividends paid per share during the period, expressed as a percentage of net asset value per share at the start of the period.
Total development costs the expected development costs of a project, including the value of land at the start of the project and any associated land capital expenditure.
Total shareholder return TSR the growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional units of stock.
Trading profit the total of net rental income, other net income and property profits for the Group including its share of joint venture and associates less operating costs.
Vacancy the ERV attributable to vacant space expressed as a percentage of total ERV including the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Weighted average term of borrowings each tranche of the Groups borrowings is multiplied by the remaining period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group borrowings at the period end.
Weighted average interest rate the Groups annualised loan interest and derivative financial instrument costs at the period end, divided by total Group borrowings at the period end.
Yield on cost the expected headline ERV on completion of a property under development expressed as a percentage of the estimated total development cost.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 179
