GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 November 2017 Basis of preparation The Groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the EU EU IFRSs as they apply to the Group for the year ended 30 November 2017, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments, the convertible bond and the defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
This is discussed in the strategic report and as confirmed in the directors report it is considered appropriate to prepare the financial statements for the year ended 30 November 2017 on a going concern basis.
Further detail is contained in the viability statement included in the strategic report on page 61.
In the current year the Group has adopted: Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle The adoption of the above amendments has had no material impact to the Groups financial statements.
The Companys functional currency together with that of all of its subsidiaries and the presentation currency for the Group is pounds sterling and its principal EU IFRS accounting policies are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC and the entities it controls.
Control comprises exposure, or rights, to variable returns, the power to direct the relevant activities of the investee and the investors ability to use its power over the investee to affect the returns.
This is achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights or by contractual agreement.
A list of the entities controlled is given in note D to the Company financial statements.
All entities are consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expense are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss and net assets that are not held by the Group and are presented separately within equity in the Group balance sheet.
Interests in joint arrangements Arrangements under which the Group has contractually agreed to share control with another party or parties are assessed to determine whether they represent joint ventures or joint operations.
Joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures where the parties have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
Should the parties have rights to assets and obligations for liabilities relating to the arrangement they would instead be classified as joint operations.
Currently, all arrangements where the Group has contractually agreed to share control have been determined to be joint ventures.
The Group recognises its interests in joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the joint venture is carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
The Group income statement reflects the Groups share of the joint ventures results after interest and tax.
Financial statements of joint ventures are prepared for the same reporting period as the Group.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used into line with those of the Group.
The Group statement of comprehensive income reflects the Groups share of any income and expense recognised by the joint venture entities outside the Group income statement.
Interests in associates The Groups interests in its associates, being those entities over which it has significant influence and which are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, are accounted for using the equity method of accounting, as described above.
Business combinations The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for business combinations.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary comprises the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred also includes the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement and is adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 126 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are, with limited exceptions, measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net identifiable assets.
The excess of the consideration transferred adjusted to reflect the fair value of any pre-existing equity interest in the subsidiary and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If those amounts are less than the fair value of the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary and the measurement of all amounts has been reviewed, the difference is recognised directly in the Group income statement as a bargain purchase.
Where settlement of any part of cash consideration is deferred, the amounts payable in the future are discounted to their present value as at the date of exchange.
The discount rate used is the entitys incremental borrowing rate, which is the rate that a similar borrowing could be obtained from an independent financier under comparable terms and conditions.
Contingent consideration is classified either as equity or a financial liability.
Amounts classified as a financial liability are subsequently remeasured to fair value with changes in fair value recognised in the income statement.
Properties Investment properties Investment properties, being freehold and leasehold properties held to earn rental income, for capital appreciation and or for undetermined future use, together with land options where the land is for an undetermined future use, are carried at fair value following initial recognition at the present value of the consideration payable.
To establish fair value, investment properties are independently valued on the basis of market value.
Any surplus or deficit arising is recognised in the Group income statement for the year.
Once classified as an investment property, a property remains in this category until development with a view to sale commences, at which point the asset is transferred to inventories at current valuation.
Where an investment property is being redeveloped for continued use as an investment property, the property remains within investment property and any movement in valuation is recognised in the Group income statement.
Investment property disposals are recognised on completion.
Profits and losses arising are recognised through the Group income statement and the profit or loss on disposal is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset.
Investment properties are not depreciated.
Inventories Inventories principally comprise properties previously developed and held for sale, properties under construction with a view to sale and land under option with a view to future sale.
All inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises land, direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
When inventory includes a transfer from investment properties, cost is recorded as the book value at the date of transfer.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Inventory is transferred to investment properties only when the asset meets the definition of an investment property and there has been a change in use evidenced by commencement of an operating lease.
Due to the scale of the Groups developments, the Group has to allocate site-wide development costs between properties on the site.
Such site-wide costs are allocated to properties based on the forecast value of each individual unit as a proportion of the aggregate forecast value of the individual units on the site.
In making these assessments, there is a degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal controls to assess and review carrying values and the appropriateness of estimates made.
Operating property, plant and equipment Operating property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Such cost includes costs directly attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
Depreciation is provided on all operating property, plant and equipment at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: leasehold operating properties over the shorter of the lease term and 25 years: and plant, machinery and equipment over two to five years.
Leases The Group as lessee Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are capitalised at the inception of the lease with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the Group income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Non-property assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset and the lease term.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 127 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 November 2017 continued Interests in leasehold investment properties are accounted for as finance leases with the value of guaranteed minimum rents inherent within the carrying value of the property and the liability reflected within long-term liabilities.
On payment of a guaranteed rent, initially the majority of such costs is charged to the income statement as interest payable, with the balance reducing the liability.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases, adjusted for the impact of any cash incentives given to the lessee and to reflect any rent-free incentive periods, is recognised in the Group income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Income taxes Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The tax currently payable is based on the taxable result for the year.
The taxable result differs from the result as reported in the Group income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that will not be taxable or deductible.
Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements on an undiscounted basis, using the rates of tax expected to apply based on legislation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, with the following exceptions: in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future: and deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Income tax is charged or credited directly to equity or other comprehensive income if it relates to items that are credited or charged to equity or other comprehensive income.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Group income statement.
As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions.
The outcome of tax treatments, including tax planning, are recognised by the Group to the extent that the outcome is reasonably certain.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the balance sheet date where such exposure is considered more likely than not to occur.
Pensions The Group operates a pension scheme with both defined benefit and defined contribution sections.
The defined benefit section is closed to new members and, from 1 September 2009, to future accrual.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit section is determined using the projected unit credit method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation and is based on actuarial advice.
Past service costs are recognised in the Group income statement on the earlier of: the date on which the plan amendment or curtailment occurs: or when the Company recognises related restructuring costs or termination benefits.
Net interest is calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset and is recognised in the Group income statement as finance cost.
Actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable and the return on scheme assets excluding interest are recognised in full in the Group statement of comprehensive income in the year in which they occur.
The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the Group balance sheet comprises the present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
When a pension asset net surplus arises from the above calculation, it is limited to the present value of any economic benefits that will be available to the Company in accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14 IAS 19The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are recognised in the Group income statement in the year in which they become payable.
Own shares Shares in St. Modwen Properties PLC held by the Group are classified as a deduction from equity attributable to owners of the Company and are recognised at cost.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 128 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Dividends Dividends are recognised when declared and approved and dividends declared and approved after the balance sheet date are not recognised as liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received including the fair value of any residential properties received in part-exchange, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty.
Where required, revenue is allocated between components in a multi-element transaction e. g. where there is simultaneously a sale of land and a construction contract with the purchaser of the land based on their respective fair values of the components.
The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised: Sale of property Revenue arising from the sale of property is recognised on legal completion of the sale.
Construction contracts Revenue arising from construction contracts is recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy on construction contracts see below.
An appropriate proportion of revenue from construction contracts is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of contract activity.
Rental income Rental income arising from investment properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Management and performance fees Where the Group is solely providing development management services without being responsible for the performance of the underlying construction, management fees receivable are recognised over time as the service is performed in the period to which they relate.
Performance fees are recognised when the Group has substantially fulfilled its obligations in respect of the transaction and hence the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the Group.
Interest income Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Dividend income Dividend income from joint ventures is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Construction contracts Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The extent to which the contract is complete is determined by the total costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total anticipated costs of the entire contract.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue.
Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised only to the extent of contract costs incurred where it is probable they will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Government grants Government grants relating to property are treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.
Share-based payments Share-based payments to employees are equity-settled and are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date, using an appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest.
Fair value hierarchy Assets and liabilities that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, are required to be grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices : and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset that are not based on observable market data unobservable inputs.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 129 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 November 2017 continued Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for any amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recognised and carried at the lower of their original invoiced value or recoverable amount.
Provision is made when there is evidence that the Group will not be able to recover balances in full.
Balances are written off when the probability of recovery is assessed as being remote.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturity less than three months.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recorded at amortised cost.
Where payment is on deferred terms the liability is initially recorded by discounting the nominal amount payable to net present value.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period of the deferred arrangement and charged to finance costs.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
After initial recognition, loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised in finance income or finance expense, as appropriate.
The effective interest rate method is used to charge interest to the Group income statement.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value.
The Group has determined that the derivative financial instruments in use do not qualify for hedge accounting and, consequently, any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives are taken to the Group income statement.
Equity instruments An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all its liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received less direct issue costs.
Convertible bonds Convertible bonds are assessed on issue as to whether they should be classified as a financial liability, as equity or as a compound financial instrument with both debt and equity components.
This assessment is based on the terms of the bond and in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
The Groups convertible bonds have been designated as at fair value through profit and loss.
Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the application of the Groups accounting policies outlined above, the directors are required to make judgements relating to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations which are dealt with separately below, that the directors have made in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Valuation of investment properties The Group adopts the valuation performed by its independent valuers as the fair value of its investment properties, following review by management.
The valuation is performed according to RICS rules, using appropriate levels of professional judgement for the prevailing market conditions.
Professional judgement is applied in determining such things as an appropriate yield for a given property and estimated rental values and the appropriateness of remediation expenditure and costs to complete.
Complex transactions Certain property transactions entered into by the Group involve an element of complexity and the need to exercise judgement to determine the most appropriate accounting policy.
Such transactions include the accounting for the right to secure the interest in the surplus land at New Covent Garden Market together with the associated obligation to procure the new market for the Covent Garden Market Authority further details of which are set out below.
New Covent Garden Market accounting treatment The contractual arrangement between VSM NCGM Limited the Groups 50:50 joint venture with Vinci in respect of New Covent Garden Market and the Covent Garden Market Authority CGMA involves VSM NCGM Limited committing to procure a new market for the CGMA and in return receiving an option to acquire the surplus land on the site.
In substance the arrangement represents a barter of development and construction services for the interest in the land.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 130 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In determining the most appropriate accounting policy for the arrangement, consideration was given as to whether to account for the transaction as the acquisition of an interest in the surplus land for non-cash consideration or to account for the development as a construction contract under IAS 11 Construction Contracts, with the consideration taking the form of the non-cash interest in the surplus land.
It was concluded that the former more faithfully and fairly represented the substance of the arrangement, reflecting that the key strategic rationale for entering into the transaction was to secure the interest in the surplus land and then to unlock its significant value, rather than to secure construction activity in building a new market.
Judgement was also applied in determining the appropriate classification for the interest in the surplus land, which legally takes the form of an option.
Given the intention to take physical delivery of the land and that, at the point of initial recognition, it had not been determined whether to hold the surplus land for capital appreciation or to sell it on to a third party, the surplus land interest was judged to meet the definition of an investment property under IAS 40 Investment Properties, and hence has been accounted for in this way rather than as a financial asset or as inventory.
Subsequent to initial recognition of the interest in the land as investment property and the recognition of the liability to procure the new market facilities, judgement was also applied in determining whether there should be any ongoing interaction between the two balances for example, whether any subsequent adjustment to the estimate of the liability should be accounted for as an adjustment to the original investment property purchase price which ultimately would give rise to an investment property revaluation gain or loss or as a separate provision remeasurement gain or loss in the income statement.
As, going forward, the two balances operate entirely independently of each other, it was determined that they should also be accounted for separately in accordance with the requirements of their respective applicable accounting standards.
Consequently, remeasurements of both the investment property valuation and provision liability are recognised, separately, in VSM NCGM Limiteds income statement in accordance with the requirements of IAS 40 Investment Property and IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets respectively.
Remeasurements of both the investment property valuation and provision liability are reflected together as component parts of the profits losses of joint ventures and associates post-tax line within the Group income statement.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Groups accounting policies outlined above, the directors are required to make estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant and so actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting period that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Cost to establish a market in Nine Elms The Group engages an external expert to estimate the costs to complete the market in Nine Elms, based on experience of construction to date, recent tendering activity and wider trends in relevant build costs, including inflation.
In determining the appropriate liability to recognise, the reasonably possible range of outcomes estimated by the external expert is reviewed, together with an assessment of the likelihood of sensitivities, risks and opportunities inherent in this complex, long-term project materialising.
Net realisable value of inventories The Group has ongoing procedures for assessing the carrying value of inventories and identifying where this is in excess of net realisable value.
The estimates and judgements for both revenue and costs were based on information available at, and pertaining to, the balance sheet date, with reference to recent experience on similar properties and site-specific knowledge.
Any subsequent adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional provisions being required, although it would require a fall in average house prices in excess of 10% before any additional net realisable value provisions would be required on residential development land.
Taxation As a property group, tax and its treatment is often an integral part of transactions.
The outcome of tax treatments are recognised by the Group to the extent the outcome is reasonably certain.
Where tax treatments have been challenged by HMRC, or management believe that there is a risk of such challenge, provision is made for the best estimate of potential exposure based on the information available at the balance sheet date.
Managements assessment of the level of provision required is, where applicable, supported by the Groups tax advisors.
If HMRC were to be successful in challenging tax treatments to a greater extent than has been provided at the balance sheet date then additional provisions may be required.
In particular, as a property group, the effective tax rate for the year reflects the benefit of certain investment gains not being taxable because of indexation, capital allowances, land remediation and other reliefs on certain property expenditure, the utilisation of capital tax losses brought forward and the property ownership structure of the Group.
The effect of these adjustments have to be estimated at the balance sheet date, based on historical corporation tax computations and the expected outcome from the preparation of the tax computations for the current year, in consultation with the Groups tax advisors.
Following the sale of the student accommodation at Swansea University Bay Campus post-year end as disclosed in note 23 and excluding certain companies in the process of being liquidated, all of the Groups subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are subject to full UK corporation tax.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 131 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 November 2017 continued Standards and interpretations not yet effective At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following standards, amendments and interpretations which have not been adopted in these financial statements were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts Amendments to IFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 2016 Cycle Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2015 2017 Cycle Clarifications to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The directors are still assessing the impact that the adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations will have on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Adoption of the majority of these standards, amendments and interpretations are expected to have little or no impact on the reported results of the Group, although amended disclosures may be required.
IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments and is effective for the Groups year ending 30 November 2019.
The Group has commenced, but not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the adoption and it is currently believed that the main impact of this will be on the Groups bad debt provision, which may increase as a result of recognising impairments on an expected loss basis.
Any such increase is not expected to be material to the Group.
IFRS 15 specifies how and when the Group will recognise revenue as well as requiring the Group to provide users of financial statements with more informative, relevant disclosures in respect of revenue.
The standard provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
The Group has commenced, but not yet completed, its evaluation of the effect of the adoption of implementing IFRS 15, which will be effective for the Groups year ending 30 November 2019.
The main impact is expected to be on certain contracts for the construction of assets, currently recognised under IAS 11 Construction Contracts, but this impact is not yet quantifiable.
There is also expected to be an impact on an element of revenue recognition within the housebuilding business, but this is not expected to be material.
IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is for 12 months or fewer or the underlying asset has a low value.
Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance, with IFRS 16s approach to lessor accounting substantially unchanged from its predecessor, IAS 17 Leases.
This standard is not effective until the Groups year ending 30 November 2020 and as a result, the Group has not yet completed its evaluation of the effect of the adoption.
However, the Groups leases currently classified as operating leases are not material.
Prior year restatement During the year ended 30 November 2017, the presentation of lease incentive assets arising from rent-free periods, stepped rent agreements and cash tenant incentives has been reviewed and compared with industry peers.
These assets were previously reported as a separate receivable on the balance sheet and deducted from the external property valuation in arriving at the reported investment properties balance.
In order to better reflect the property portfolio balance reported in note 2 and to align the presentation with that adopted by many industry peers, these assets of 13.5m have been reclassified from trade and other receivables to investment properties in the year ended 30 November 2017.
As a result of this change in accounting policy, the Group balance sheet as at 30 November 2016 has been retrospectively restated in these financial statements by reclassifying 11.7m from trade and other receivables to investment properties.
This restatement has had no impact on the income statement, total assets, net assets or any of the numbers or metrics disclosed in note 2.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 132 Annual report and financial statements 2017
