COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES for the year ended 30 November 2017 Basis of preparation The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial Reporting Requirements.
Accordingly, the Companys financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework as issued by the Financial Reporting Council, applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain properties, derivative financial instruments and the defined benefit section of the Companys pension scheme.
The Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions included within paragraph 8 of FRS 101.
The main impact of these disclosure exemptions is that these separate financial statements do not include a cash flow statement, financial instruments and related party disclosures and comparative information for plant and equipment and investment properties.
Certain disclosures required for the Company are included within the Group financial statements and are therefore not repeated within these separate financial statements.
Specifically, the following information relevant to the Company is found in the respective notes to the Group financial statements: Share-based payments note 4d Dividends note 8 Share capital note 18 Pensions note 19 Contingent liabilities note 21 Related party transactions note 22 The Companys functional and presentational currency is pounds sterling and its principal accounting policies are as set out for the Group on pages 126 to 132, except for the additional policy below: Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the interest in the subsidiary or joint venture is carried in the Company balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Companys share of its net assets, less distributions received and less any impairment in value of individual investments.
The income statement reflects the Companys share of the subsidiarys or joint ventures results after interest and tax.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 170 Annual report and financial statements 2017
