Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 23.
Subsequent events Completion of refinancing The Group completed its refinancing in December 2017, replacing 488.0m of bilateral secured debt facilities with a 475.0m unsecured revolving credit facility with an initial maturity of five years which can be extended to a maximum of seven years, subject to lender consent.
In line with our strategic plans, the refinancing provides a reduced cost of debt and improved operational flexibility.
The transition to unsecured debt financing provides the Group with the option to extend further its debt maturity profile and diversify its sources of unsecured finance ahead of the maturity of the Groups 100.0m convertible bond and 80.0m retail bond in 2019.
In doing so, the Group settled its balance sheet liability for out of the money interest rate swaps for a cash outlay of 5.1m and entered into an interest rate cap.
This hedging activity will result in initial annual savings of c. 2.5m.
A non-cash expense of an 3.4m will be recognised in the first half of the Groups 2018 financial year in respect of capitalised arrangement fees relating to the previous facilities.
These actions increased the Groups weighted average facility life 2.7 years at 30 November 2017 to 4.1 years or to 5.5 years if the two one-year extensions are applied.
Sale of Swansea student accommodation In February 2018, the Group completed the sale of its 45-year leasehold interest in its purpose-built student accommodation at Swansea University Bay Campus for a total cash consideration of 87.3m to UPP Group Limited, a specialist provider of on-campus student accommodation infrastructure and support services.
The assets that have been sold comprise the Groups interests in the completed student accommodation buildings, including ancillary commercial leases.
The sale is by way of a disposal of the entire issued share capital of St. Modwen Properties VIII S.. r. l. and St. Modwen SAC 2 Limited and certain freehold interests.
The planned disposal follows a competitive sales process and was broadly in line with book value.
The gross consideration for the 45-year leasehold asset is 139.3m, representing a yield of 5.7%, with a cash consideration of 87.3m reflecting the transfer of the associated finance lease liability.
The disposal will result in the reduction of c. 5.8m of net rental income compared to 2017, offset by the reduction of 2.1m of interest payable on finance lease obligations.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 167
