NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the seventy seventh Annual General subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Meeting AGM of St. Modwen Properties PLC the Company will be directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with held in the Evolution Suite, Innovation Centre, 1 Devon Way, treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, or Longbridge Technology Park, Birmingham B31 2TS on Wednesday, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws 28 March 2018 at 12.00 noon to consider and, if thought fit, to pass of, any country or territory or any other matter.
Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive will be Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the authorities proposed as ordinary resolutions and resolutions 15 to 18 will be conferred by this resolution 14 shall apply in substitution for proposed as special resolutions.
all existing authorities under section 551 of the Act until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on Ordinary business which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 27 June 2019, but, in Annual Report and financial statements each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into 1.
To receive the Companys Annual Report and financial agreements before the authority expires which would or might statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2017. require shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after the authority expires and the directors may allot shares or grant Directors remuneration report such rights under such an offer or agreement as if the authority 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report excluding the had not expired.
part containing the directors remuneration policy as set out on pages 86 to 109 of the Annual Report and financial statements for the financial year ended 30 November 2017.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights Special resolution Dividend 15.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 14, the directors 3.
To declare a final dividend for the financial year ended be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of the 30 November 2017 of 4.26 pence per ordinary share, payable Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within on 4 April 2018 to those shareholders on the register of the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to members at the close of business on 9 March 2018. the authority conferred by resolution 14 and or to sell ordinary Election and re-election of directors shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if 4.
To elect Jenefer Greenwood as a director.
section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be limited to: 5.
To elect Jamie Hopkins as a director.
a any such allotment and or sale in connection with an offer 6.
To re-elect Mark Allan as a director.
or issue by way of rights or other pre-emptive offer or issue, 7.
To re-elect Ian Bull as a director.
open for acceptance for a period fixed by the directors, to: 8.
To re-elect Simon Clarke as a director.
i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and 9.
To re-elect Rob Hudson as a director.
ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the 10.
To re-elect Lesley James as a director.
rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as 11.
To re-elect Bill Shannon as a director.
the directors otherwise consider necessary, Appointment and remuneration of auditor subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the 12.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the directors consider necessary or appropriate to deal with conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, or which accounts are laid.
legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any country or territory or any other matter: and 13.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the remuneration of the Companys auditor on behalf of the Board.
b any such allotment and or sale, other than pursuant to paragraph a of this resolution 15, having, in the case of Special business ordinary shares, an aggregate nominal amount or, in the Authority to allot shares case of other equity securities, giving the right to subscribe 14.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the directors in or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 nominal amount, not exceeding 1,111,884. the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to: Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers conferred a allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for by this resolution 15 shall apply in substitution for all existing or to convert any security into shares in the Company up powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the conclusion to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,412,566: and of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 27 June 2019, but, in each case, so b allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements of the Act up to a further aggregate nominal amount of before the power expires which would or might require equity 7,412,566 in connection with an offer by way of a rights securities to be allotted or equity securities held as treasury shares issue to: to be sold for cash after the power expires and the directors may i ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may allot equity securities and or sell equity securities held as treasury be practicable to their existing holdings: and shares for cash under such an offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
ii holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or, subject to such rights, as the directors otherwise consider necessary, St. Modwen Properties PLC 180 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Special resolution Notice of meetings other than AGMs 16.
That, subject and in addition to the passing of resolution 15, the Special resolution directors be generally empowered pursuant to section 570 of 18.
To authorise the Company to call a general meeting other than the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice, provided that this within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 and or Company after the date on which this resolution is passed.
to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such Recommendation allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be: The Board confirms that, in its opinion, all of the resolutions are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
a limited to any such allotment and or sale of equity The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in securities having, in the case of ordinary shares, an favour of each of the above resolutions, as they intend to do in aggregate nominal amount or, in the case of other equity respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
securities, giving the right to subscribe or convert into ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal amount, By order of the Board not exceeding 1,111,884: and Andrew Eames b used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, General Counsel and if the authority is to be used within six months after the Company Secretary Interim original transaction a transaction which directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment 15 February 2018 of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Registered number: 349201 Unless previously renewed, revoked or varied, the powers Registered office: Park Point, conferred by this resolution 16 shall apply in substitution for all 17 High Street, Longbridge, existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act until the Birmingham B31 2UQ conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 27 June 2019, but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements before the power expires which would or might Explanatory notes to proposed resolutions require equity securities to be allotted or equity securities held Ordinary resolutions as treasury shares to be sold for cash after the power expires For a resolution proposed as an ordinary resolution to be passed, and the directors may allot equity securities and or sell equity more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
securities held as treasury shares for cash under such an offer or Resolution 1 Annual Report and Financial Statements agreement as if the power had not expired.
Resolution 1 is an ordinary resolution to receive the Annual Report Purchase of own ordinary shares by the Company and Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 November Special resolution 2017.
Copies will be available at the AGM.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised Resolutions 2 Directors remuneration for the purposes of section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Act to make market purchases as defined in section 693 of the Remuneration Report, other than the part containing the directors Act of ordinary shares of 10 pence each in its capital Ordinary remuneration policy.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Shares on such terms and in such manner as the directors may this vote is advisory only and the directors entitlement to receive from time to time determine provided that: remuneration is not conditional on it.
The resolution and vote a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares provide a means for shareholders to give feedback to the Board hereby authorised to be purchased is 22,237,698: on directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the directors remuneration policy set out in full in the Annual Report and b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Financial Statements for the year ended 30 November 2016 Share is 10 pence exclusive of expenses : which is available at www.
co. uk was approved by c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Share is the highest of in each case exclusive of expenses : Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend i an amount equal to 105% of the average market value Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution by which shareholders are of an Ordinary Share for the five business days asked to declare a final dividend.
The directors recommend a final immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary dividend for the financial year ended 30 November 2017 of 4.26 Share is contracted to be purchased: and pence per ordinary share.
If approved, this will be paid on 4 April 2018 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and business on 9 March 2018. the highest current independent bid for any number of Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange: and Resolutions 4 to 11 Election and re-election of directors Resolutions 4 to 11 are ordinary resolutions which deal with the d this authority shall, unless previously renewed, expire at the election and re-election of the directors.
In accordance with the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company after the date Companys articles of association and the UK Corporate Governance on which this resolution is passed or, if earlier, 27 June 2019, Code, all directors must retire at each AGM and shall, subject to his except in relation to the purchase of any Ordinary Shares or her terms of appointment, be eligible for election or re-election.
the contract for which was concluded before the date of expiry of the authority and which would or might be completed wholly or partly after that date.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 181 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Following her appointment to the Board on 1 June 2017, Jenefer Whilst not considered to be independent for the purposes of the UK Greenwood will retire and offer herself for election.
Corporate Governance Code, as the longest serving director Simon brings continuity and extensive knowledge of the business to the On 29 January 2018, the Board approved the appointment of Jamie Board as well as strong commercial and management experience.
Hopkins as a non-executive director of the Company, effective from 1 March 2018.
Accordingly Mr. Hopkins will retire and offer himself Lesley James, CBE resolution 10 for election.
Lesley was appointed to the Board in October 2009 and is currently Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
She has considerable As announced, both Richard Mully and Kay Chaldecott will not be board experience across public, private, voluntary and education standing for re-election at the AGM.
All other directors will retire sectors and, as HR Director at Tesco plc for 14 years, has extensive and offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 66 and 67.
During the past year, Lesley led the Remuneration Committees The performance of and contribution made by individual directors discussions in respect of the implementation of the share-based has been reviewed by the Chairman during the course of the year incentive plans which were approved by shareholders at the 2017 and the Chairman has confirmed that the performance of each AGM and has engaged with the Groups major investors in the year.
director continues to be effective, that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and that their Bill Shannon resolution 11 respective skills complement one another to enhance the overall Bill was appointed to the Board in November 2010 and became operation of the Board.
The Board therefore recommends the non-executive Chairman in March 2011.
He chairs the Nomination reappointment of all directors standing for re-election.
Further Committee and is currently Deputy Chairman and Senior supporting information regarding the non-executive directors can Independent Director of LSL Property Services plc and a nonbe found opposite.
executive director of Johnson Service Group plc.
Jenefer Greenwood, OBE resolution 4 Bill has proven ability in leading large public and private Jenefer was appointed to the Board in June 2017 and is a member of companies as Chairman and has significant management and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She has over board level experience across retail, leisure, financial services and 30 years experience and knowledge of the real estate sector property sectors.
He continues to oversee succession planning for starting with Hillier Parker and subsequently working for Grosvenor Board appointments and supports the Remuneration Committee Ltd until 2012 when she retired as director of sales and lettings.
Jenefer has strengthened further the existing expertise of the board Resolutions 12 and 13 Auditor appointment and remuneration in relation to real estate and will make a meaningful contribution At last years AGM shareholders appointed KPMG as auditor of the with an extensive understanding of remuneration matters.
Company to hold office until the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
KPMG has expressed a willingness to continue in office and the Audit Jamie Hopkins resolution 5 Committee recommends their re-appointment.
Therefore resolutions Following a comprehensive search process for a new non-executive 12 and 13 are ordinary resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP as director, the Board was pleased to approve the appointment of auditor until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which Jamie Hopkins as a non-executive director with effect from 1 March accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Audit 2018 for an initial term of three years.
Chief Executive of Workspace Committee to determine their remuneration on behalf of the Board.
plc since 2012 and prior to that as a non-executive director, he is experienced in real estate, asset management services and Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares acquisitions in both public and private companies, as well as having The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM to allot strong operational skills including in financing and reporting.
Jamie shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
will complement the Boards skillsets and expertise and bring Resolution 14 is an ordinary resolution to renew this authority.
current commercial experience to the role.
The Investment Association IA guidelines on directors authority to Ian Bull resolution 7 allot shares state that IA members will permit, and treat as routine, Ian was appointed to the Board in September 2014 and is Chairman resolutions seeking authority to allot new shares representing up to of the Audit Committee.
He is currently Chief Financial Officer of one-third of a companys issued share capital.
In addition, they will Parkdean Resorts UK Ltd. His career in finance spans over 25 years, treat as routine a request for authority to allot shares representing including board level finance roles at Ladbrokes plc and Greene an additional one-third of a companys issued share capital King plc.
Ian brings to the Board a wealth of corporate and financial provided that it is only used to allot shares pursuant to a fully knowledge, together with a sound understanding of accounting pre-emptive rights issue.
Paragraph a of resolution 14 will, if resolution 14 is passed, During the past year, Ian has led the Audit Committee through its authorise the directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate first year with PwC, the Companys internal auditor and KPMG, the nominal amount of 7,412,566, which represents one-third of the external auditor.
As Committee Chair he also ensured that the Audit Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2018 Committee considered a number of significant matters in relation being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the to financial reporting, including the valuation of the Groups notice of AGM.
Paragraph b of resolution 14 proposes that, in property portfolio.
accordance with IA guidance, an additional authority be conferred on the directors to allot shares in connection with a rights issue up Simon Clarke resolution 8 to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 7,412,566.
Simon was appointed to the Board in October 2004 following the death of his father, Sir Stanley Clarke, the founder and former The authorities sought in paragraphs a and b of resolution 14 are Chairman of St. Modwen.
He is currently Chairman of Dunstall in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys Holdings Ltd, Trustee of Racing Welfare and Chairman of articles of association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to Racing Homes.
previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
The authorities will each expire at the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or 27 June 2019.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 182 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The directors have no present intention of exercising these The directors have no present intention of exercising these authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its authorities other than to fulfil the Companys obligations under its share incentive plans approved previously by shareholders, but share incentive plans approved by shareholders, but consider it believe that it is in the best interests of the Company to have the prudent to obtain the flexibility that these authorities provide.
authorities available to respond to market developments and to Resolution 17 Authority to purchase shares enable allotments to take place without the need for a general Resolution 17 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted meeting should they determine that it is appropriate to do so.
to the directors at last years AGM to make purchases of its own Special resolutions ordinary shares through the market as permitted by the Companies For a resolution proposed as a special resolution to be passed, at Act 2006 and in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
No least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the shares were purchased during the year and the Company does not resolution.
hold any shares in treasury.
Resolutions 15 and 16 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights If passed, the resolution gives authority for the Company to If the directors wish to allot new shares and other equity securities, purchase up to 22,237,698 of its ordinary shares, which represents company law requires that these shares are offered first to 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
At last years 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of AGM a special resolution was passed, under section 570 of the the notice of AGM.
The resolution specifies the minimum and Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot equity maximum prices which may be paid for any ordinary shares securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares purchased under this authority.
The authority will expire at the to existing shareholders.
It is proposed that this authority be earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company and renewed in line with institutional shareholder guidelines.
Under resolution 15, it is proposed that the directors be authorised The directors have no present intention for the Company to to issue shares for cash and or sell shares from treasury if any are exercise the authority granted by this resolution to purchase its so held without offering them first to existing shareholders in own shares.
They would do so only after taking account of the proportion to their current holdings: overall financial position of the Company and in circumstances where to do so would be regarded by the Board as being in the a in respect of a rights issue, open offer or other offer that best interests of shareholders generally and result in an increase in generally provides existing shareholders with the opportunity earnings per ordinary share.
The Company may either cancel any to subscribe for new shares pro rata to their existing holdings.
shares it purchases under this authority or transfer them into This part of the authority is designed to give the directors treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury or flexibility to exclude certain shareholders from such an offer cancel them.
where the directors consider it necessary or desirable to do so in order to avoid legal, regulatory or practical problems that As at 8 February 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to would otherwise arise: or the publication of the notice of AGM, the Company had options outstanding over 7,127,233 ordinary shares, representing 3.21% b up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,111,884 up to of the issued share capital on that date.
If the Company was to 11,118,840 new ordinary shares of 10p each.
This amount purchase the maximum number of shares permitted pursuant to represents approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary this resolution, the options outstanding at 8 February 2018 would share capital as at 8 February 2018 being the latest practicable represent 4.01% of the issued share capital.
date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
This part of the authority is designed to provide the Board with flexibility to Resolution 18 Notice period of general meetings raise further equity funding and to pursue acquisition The Company must give at least 21 clear days notice of any general opportunities as and when they may arise.
meeting, but is permitted to call meetings other than the AGM on at least 14 clear days notice if annual shareholder approval is The authority proposed under resolution 16 is in addition to the obtained beforehand.
The Company must also offer, for any authority granted by resolution 15.
Under resolution 16, it is meeting held on less than 21 clear days notice, a facility to vote by proposed that the directors be authorised to disapply statutory electronic means that is accessible to all shareholders.
pre-emption rights in respect of an additional 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 8 February 2018 being the latest Resolution 18 is a special resolution to renew the authority granted practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM.
This at last years AGM to allow the Company to hold general meetings further authority may only be used in connection with an other than AGMs on not less than 14 clear days notice.
This acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced authority will be effective until the Companys next AGM.
contemporaneously with the issue, or that has taken place in the The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the of the issue as contemplated by the Pre-Emption Groups March business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of 2015 Statement of Principles.
Excluding any shares issued in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as described above, the directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authorities sought in resolutions 15 and 16 are in substitution for all existing authorities granted in the Companys articles of association or otherwise, and are without prejudice to previous allotments or agreements or offers to allot made under such existing authorities.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 183 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Shareholder notes shareholder, the proxy form must be executed under its common 1.
Entitlement to attend and vote seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose In the case of an individual, the proxy form must be signed by the of determining the number of votes they may cast, shareholders appointing shareholder.
Any alterations made to the proxy form must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.30pm should be initialled.
on Monday, 26 March 2018 or, in the event of any adjournment, at 4.
Appointment of proxies electronically 6.30pm on the date which is two days before the date of the Shareholders who would prefer to register the appointment of their adjourned meeting.
Changes to the register of members after the proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of website at www.
co. uk using their personal Voting ID, any person to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number which are printed on number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Alternatively, shareholders who have already proposed that all votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be taken registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can by way of a poll.
appoint their proxy electronically by logging on to their portfolio 2.
Appointment of proxies general at www.
Full details and instructions on these A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened electronic proxy facilities are given on the respective websites.
A by the notice of AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any of his or her rights to attend and to speak and vote on his or any address other than those provided or if received after 12.00 her behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than noon on Monday, 26 March 2018. one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is 5.
Appointment of proxies through CREST appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies for the shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder AGM, and any adjournment s thereof, through the CREST electronic of the Company but must attend the meeting in person.
proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures For the appointment to be effective, a proxy form or electronic described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other appointment of proxy, see note 4 below must be received by the CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have Companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST meeting, i. e. not later than 12.00 noon on Monday, 26 March 2018. sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the The appointment of a proxy will not prevent a shareholder from appropriate action on their behalf.
subsequently attending the meeting and voting in person if he or In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the she is entitled to do so and so wishes.
CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST 3.
Appointment of proxies proxy form Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance A form which may be used to appointment a proxy and give proxy with Euroclear UK & Ireland Ltds EUI specifications and must instructions has been sent to shareholders.
If you do not have a contain the information required for such instructions, as described proxy form and believe that you should have one, or if you require in the CREST Manual available at www.
The additional forms to appoint more than one proxy, please contact message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a the Companys registrars, Equiniti, on 0371 384 2198 overseas proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously callers should dial 44 0 121 415 7047.
Lines are open from 8.30am appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays in be received by Equiniti ID RA19 by the latest time for receipt of England and Wales.
Alternatively, photocopy the proxy form which proxy appointments specified above.
For this purpose, the time of has been sent to you.
All forms must be signed and should be receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time returned together in the same envelope.
stamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which Equiniti is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to The notes to the proxy form explain how to direct your proxy to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any vote on each resolution or withhold their vote.
Please note that the change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should vote withheld option on the proxy form is provided to enable you be communicated to the appointee through other means.
to abstain on any particular resolution: it is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or resolution.
If you sign the proxy form and return it without any voting service providers should note that EUI does not make specific directions your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
If you wish to appoint a proxy other than the Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in Chairman of the meeting, please insert the name of your chosen relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the proxy holder in the space provided on the proxy form.
If the proxy responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the is being appointed in relation to less than your full voting CREST member is a CREST Personal Member or sponsored member entitlement, please enter in the box next to the proxy holders or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his name the number of shares in relation to which they are authorised CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as to act as your proxy.
If left blank your proxy will be deemed to be shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by authorised in respect of your full voting entitlement or if the proxy means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this form has been issued in respect of a designated account for a connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST shareholder, the full voting entitlement for that designated account.
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior joint holder who of the CREST system and timings.
tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, in respect of the holding will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the joint holders.
For this purpose seniority is determined by the order circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated in which the names appear in the Companys register of members Securities Regulations 2001. in respect of the joint holding.
In the case of a corporate St. Modwen Properties PLC 184 Annual report and financial statements 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 6.
Changing and revoking proxy instructions 11.
Website publication of audit concerns To change your proxy instruction simply submit a new proxy Shareholders satisfying the threshold requirements in section 527 appointment using the methods set out above.
Where two or more of the Companies Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the statement on its website setting out any matter that such same share and for the same meeting, those received last by shareholder proposes to raise at the meeting relating to a the Equiniti will take precedence.
audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or b In order to revoke a proxy instruction, a shareholder will need to any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company inform the Company by sending a signed hard copy notice clearly ceasing to hold office since the last AGM.
The Company cannot stating his her intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Equiniti require the shareholders requesting the publication to pay its Ltd, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA.
In the case of expenses in complying with the request.
Any statement placed on a corporate shareholder, the revocation notice must be executed the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor no later under its common seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised than the time the statement is made available on the website.
Any power of attorney or any other authority business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified statement that the Company has been required to publish on its copy of such power of attorney must be included with the website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006. revocation notice.
Termination of proxy appointments made through CREST must be made in accordance with the procedures 12.
Total voting rights described in the CREST Manual.
As at 8 February 2018 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice of AGM, the Companys issued share 7.
Corporate representatives capital consisted of 222,376,988 shares carrying one vote each.
A corporate shareholder can appoint one or more corporate Therefore the total voting rights in the Company as at 8 February representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as 2018 was 222,376,988. a shareholder provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations 13.
Documents available for inspection will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when The following documents are available for inspection at the attending the AGM.
Please contact Equiniti for further guidance.
registered office of the Company during normal business hours and will be at the place of the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior to and 8.
Nominated persons during the AGM: Any person to whom this notice is sent who is not a shareholder but is a person nominated by a shareholder under section 146 of a copies of the directors service agreements with the Company: the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated b copies of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: Person may, under an agreement with the shareholder who nominated him her, have a right to be appointed, or have someone c a copy of the Companys articles of association: and else appointed, as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has d a copy of the Companys indemnity for directors: no such right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give voting instructions to the 14.
Communication with the Company shareholder.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of AGM or any related documents including the proxy form to The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those appointment of proxies set out in notes 2 to 7 above does not expressly stated.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
If you are a Nominated Person it is important to remember that your main contact in terms of your investment remains the registered shareholder or the custodian or broker who administers the investment on your behalf.
Shareholder participation Any shareholder attending the AGM has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting and the Company has an obligation to answer such questions unless i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Availability of information on a website A copy of this notice of AGM, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found on the Companys website at www.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2017 185
