In September 2017, we entered into an agreement to sell an EAA segment 700-passenger capacity ship.
The ship will be transferred to the buyer in March 2018.
NOTE4OtherAssets We have a 40% noncontrolling interest in Grand Bahama Shipyard Ltd. Grand Bahama, a ship repair and maintenance facility.
Grand Bahama provided services to us of $97 million in 2017, $58 million in 2016 and $33 million in 2015.
The interest rates on some of our debt, and in the case of our main revolving credit facility, fluctuate based on the applicable rating of senior unsecured long-term securities of Carnival Corporation or Carnival plc.
We use the net proceeds from our borrowings for payments related to the purchases of new ships and general corporate purposes.
For the twelve months ended November 30, 2017, we had borrowings of $111 million and repayments of $364 million of commercial paper with original maturities greater than three months.
Interest-bearing debt is recorded at initial fair value, which normally reflects the proceeds received by us, net of debt issuance costs, and is subsequently stated at amortized cost.
On December 1, 2016, we adopted the FASB 18 issued amended guidance Interest Imputation of Interest and reclassified $55 million from Other Assets to Long-Term Debt on our November 30, 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Debt issuance costs are generally amortized to interest expense using the straight-line method, which approximates the effective interest method, over the term of the debt.
In addition, all debt issue discounts and premiums are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the term of the notes.
Substantially all of our fixed rate debt can be called or prepaid by incurring additional costs.
In addition, substantially all of our debt agreements, including our main revolving credit facility, contain one or more financial covenants that require us to: Maintain minimum debt service coverage Maintain minimum shareholders equity Limit our debt to capital and debt to equity ratios Limit the amounts of our secured assets as well as secured and other indebtedness Generally, if an event of default under any debt agreement occurs, then pursuant to cross default acceleration clauses, substantially all of our outstanding debt and derivative contract payables could become due, and all debt and derivative contracts could be terminated.
At November 30, 2017, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants.
These commitments, if drawn at the time of ship delivery, are generally repayable semi-annually over 12 years.
We have the option to cancel each one at specified dates prior to the underlying ships delivery date.
 At November 30, 2017, we had $3.0 billion of total revolving credit facilities comprised of a $2.7 billion $1.9 billion, 500 million and 169 million multi-currency revolving credit facility that expires in 2021 the Facility and a $300 million revolving credit facility that expires in 2020.
A total of $2.5 billion of this capacity was available for drawing, which is net of outstanding commercial paper.
The Facility currently bears interest at LIBOR EURIBOR plus a margin of 30 basis points bps.
The margin varies based on changes to Carnival Corporations and Carnival plcs long-term senior unsecured credit ratings.
We are required to pay a commitment fee on any undrawn portion.
