Most of these claims and lawsuits, or any settlement of claims and lawsuits, are covered by insurance and the maximum amount of our liability, net of any insurance recoverables, is typically limited to our self-insurance retention levels.
Management believes the ultimate outcome of these claims, lawsuits, and settlements, as applicable, each and in the aggregate, will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 LILO Transaction At November 30, 2017, we had an estimated contingent obligation of $123 million.
At the inception of the lease, we paid the aggregate of the net present value of the obligation to a group of major financial institutions, who agreed to act as payment undertakers and directly pay this obligation.
As a result, this contingent obligation is considered extinguished and neither the funds nor the contingent obligation have been included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
As of January 2, 2018, this transaction was terminated at no cost.
 Some of the debt contracts that we enter into include indemnification provisions obligating us to make payments to the counterparty if certain events occur.
These contingencies generally relate to changes in taxes or changes in laws which increase lenders costs.
There are no stated or notional amounts included in the indemnification clauses, and we are not able to estimate the maximum potential amount of future payments, if any, under these indemnification clauses.
NOTE8Taxation A summary of our principal taxes and exemptions in the jurisdictions where our significant operations are located is as follows: U. S. IncomeTax We are primarily foreign corporations engaged in the business of operating cruise ships in international transportation.
We also own and operate, among other businesses, the U. S. hotel and transportation business of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours through U. S. corporations.
Our North American cruise ship businesses and certain ship-owning subsidiaries are engaged in a trade or business within the U. S. Depending on its itinerary, any particular ship may generate income from sources within the U. S. We believe that our U. S. source income and the income of our ship-owning subsidiaries, to the extent derived from, or incidental to, the international operation of a ship or ships, is currently exempt from U. S. federal income and branch profit taxes.
