The FASB issued amended guidance, Statement of Cash Flows Restricted Cash, which requires restricted cash to be presented with cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows.
This guidance is required to be adopted by us in the first quarter of 2019 and must be applied using a retrospective approach to each period presented.
Early adoption is permitted, including adoption in an interim period.
The adoption of this guidance is not expected to have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued amended guidance,  , which requires the bifurcation of net benefit cost.
This guidance is required to be adopted by us in the first quarter of 2019 and must be applied using a retrospective approach for the presentation of the service cost component and the other components of net benefit cost, and on a prospective basis for the capitalization of only the service cost component of net benefit cost.
The FASB issued amended guidance, Service Concession Arrangements, which clarifies that the grantor in a service arrangement should be considered the customer of the operating entity in all cases.
This guidance is required to be adopted by us in the first quarter of 2019 and can be applied using either a retrospective or a modified retrospective approach.
We are currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements.
The FASB issued guidance, Leases, which requires an entity to recognize both assets and liabilities arising from financing and operating leases, along with additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures.
This guidance is required to be adopted by us in the first quarter of 2020 and must be applied using a modified retrospective approach.
The FASB issued guidance, Derivatives and Hedging, which targeted improvements to accounting for hedging activities such as hedging strategies, effectiveness assessments, and recognition of derivative gains or losses.
SalesofShips In April 2017, we transferred an EAA segment 1,550-passenger capacity ship under a bareboat charter agreement which was accounted for as a sale.
In July 2017, we entered into a bareboat charter agreement, which will be accounted for as a sale, for an EAA segment 1,300-passenger capacity ship.
The ship will be transferred to the charterer in April 2018.
