Conducting business with large, well-established financial institutions, insurance companies and export credit agencies Diversifying our counterparties Having guidelines regarding credit ratings and investment maturities that we follow to help safeguard liquidity and minimize risk Generally requiring collateral and or guarantees to support notes receivable on significant asset sales, long-term ship charters and new ship progress payments to shipyards We currently believe the risk of nonperformance by any of our significant counterparties is remote.
At November 30, 2017, our exposures under foreign currency and fuel derivative contracts and interest rate swap agreements were not material.
We also monitor the creditworthiness of travel agencies and tour operators in Asia, Australia and Europe, which includes charter-hire agreements in Asia and credit and debit card providers to which we extend credit in the normal course of our business.
Our credit exposure also includes contingent obligations related to cash payments received directly by travel agents and tour operators for cash collected by them on cruise sales in Australia and most of Europe where we are obligated to honor our guests cruise payments made by them to their travel agents and tour operators regardless of whether we have received these payments.
Concentrations of credit risk associated with these trade receivables, charter-hire agreements and contingent obligations are not considered to be material, principally due to the large number of unrelated accounts, the nature of these contingent obligations and their short maturities.
We have not experienced significant credit losses on our trade receivables, charter-hire agreements and contingent obligations.
We do not normally require collateral or other security to support normal credit sales.
 We have four reportable segments that are comprised of 1 North America, 2 EAA, 3 Cruise Support and 4 Tour and Other.
Our segments are reported on the same basis as the internally reported information that is provided to our chief operating decision maker CODM, who is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc.
The CODM assesses performance and makes decisions to allocate resources for Carnival Corporation & plc based upon review of the results across all of our segments.
31 Our North America segment includes Carnival Cruise Line, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises and Seabourn.
Our EAA segment includes AIDA, Costa, Cunard, P&O Cruises Australia and P&O Cruises UK.
The operations of these reporting units have been aggregated into two reportable segments based on the similarity of their economic and other characteristics, including types of customers, regulatory environment, maintenance requirements, supporting systems and processes and products and services they provide.
Our Cruise Support segment represents certain of our port and related facilities and other services that are provided for the benefit of our cruise brands.
Our Tour and Other segment represents the hotel and transportation operations of Holland America Princess Alaska Tours and other operations.
A portion of the North America segments revenues includes revenues for the tour portion of a cruise when a cruise and land tour package are sold together by Holland America Line and Princess Cruises.
These intersegment tour revenues, which are also included in our Tour and Other segment, are eliminated by the North America segments revenues and operating expenses in the line Intersegment elimination.
Tour and Other segment assets primarily include hotels and lodges in the state of Alaska and the Canadian Yukon, motorcoaches used for sightseeing and charters, glass-domed railcars, which run on the Alaska Railroad, and our owned ships that we leased out under long-term charters to unaffiliated entities.
