CARNIVALCORPORATION&PLC  NOTE1General  Carnival Corporation was incorporated in Panama in 1972 and Carnival plc was incorporated in England and Wales in 2000.
Together with their consolidated subsidiaries, they are referred to collectively in these consolidated financial statements and elsewhere in this 2017 Annual Report as Carnival Corporation & plc, our, us and we.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc and their respective subsidiaries.
We are the worlds largest leisure travel company and among the most profitable and financially strong in the cruise and vacation industries.
We are also the largest cruise company, carrying nearly half of global cruise guests, and a leading provider of vacations to all major cruise destinations throughout the world.
With operations in North America, Europe, Australia and Asia, we operate over 100 cruise ships within a portfolio of leading global, regional and national cruise brands that sell tailored cruise products, services and vacation experiences in all the worlds most desirable destinations.
DLCArrangement Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc operate a dual listed company DLC arrangement, whereby the businesses of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are combined through a number of contracts and provisions in Carnival Corporations Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and Carnival plcs Articles of Association.
The two companies operate as a single economic enterprise with a single senior executive management team and identical Boards of Directors, but each has retained its separate legal identity.
Each companys shares are publicly traded: on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE for Carnival Corporation and the London Stock Exchange LSE for Carnival plc.
The Carnival plc American Depository Shares are traded on the NYSE.
The constitutional documents of each company provide that, on most matters, the holders of the common equity of both companies effectively vote as a single body.
The Equalization and Governance Agreement between Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc provides for the equalization of dividends and liquidation distributions based on an equalization ratio and contains provisions relating to the governance of the DLC arrangement.
Because the equalization ratio is 1 to 1, one share of Carnival Corporation common stock and one Carnival plc ordinary share are generally entitled to the same distributions.
Under deeds of guarantee executed in connection with the DLC arrangement, as well as stand-alone guarantees executed since that time, each of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have effectively cross guaranteed all indebtedness and certain other monetary obligations of each other.
Once the written demand is made, the holders of indebtedness or other obligations may immediately commence an action against the relevant guarantor.
Under the terms of the DLC arrangement, Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc are permitted to transfer assets between the companies, make loans to or investments in each other and otherwise enter into intercompany transactions.
In addition, the cash flows and assets of one company are required to be used to pay the obligations of the other company, if necessary.
Given the DLC arrangement, we believe that providing separate financial statements for each of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc would not present a true and fair view of the economic realities of their operations.
Accordingly, separate financial statements for Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc have not been presented.
