,   Fair value is defined as the amount that would be received for selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and is measured using inputs in one of the following three categories: Level 1 measurements are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access.
Valuation of these items does not entail a significant amount of judgment.
Level 2 measurements are based on quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active or market data other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities.
Level 3 measurements are based on unobservable data that are supported by little or no market activity and are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value.
Accordingly, certain estimates of fair value presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in a current or future market exchange.
The fair values of our Level 2 notes receivables were based on estimated future cash flows discounted at appropriate market interest rates.
The fair values of our Level 3 notes receivable were estimated using risk-adjusted discount rates.
b The debt amounts above do not include the impact of interest rate swaps or debt issuance costs.
The fair values of our publicly-traded notes were based on their unadjusted quoted market prices in markets that are not sufficiently active to be Level 1 and, accordingly, are considered Level 2.
The fair values of our other debt were estimated based on current market interest rates being applied to this debt.
  As of July 31, 2017, we performed our annual goodwill and trademark impairment reviews and we determined there was no impairment for goodwill or trademarks related to AIDA, Carnival Cruise Line, Costa, Cunard, Holland America Line, Princess Cruises and P&O Cruises UK.
During the third quarter of 2017, we made a decision to strategically realign our business in Australia, which includes reducing capacity in P&O Cruises Australia.
We performed discounted cash flow analyses and determined that the estimated fair values of the P&O Cruises Australia reporting unit and its trademark no longer exceeded their carrying values.
We recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $38 million and a trademark impairment charge of $50 million during the third quarter of 2017.
The determination of our reporting unit goodwill and trademark fair values includes numerous assumptions that are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
The principal assumptions, all of which are considered Level 3 inputs, used in our cash flow analyses consisted of: Forecasted operating results, including net revenue yields and net cruise costs including fuel prices Capacity changes and the expected rotation of vessels into or out of each of these cruise brands, including decisions about the allocation of new ships amongst brands, the transfer of ships between brands and the timing of ship dispositions Weighted-average cost of capital of market participants, adjusted for the risk attributable to the geographic regions in which these cruise brands operate Capital expenditures, proceeds from forecasted dispositions of ships and terminal values 25 We believe that we have made reasonable estimates and judgments.
Changes in the conditions or circumstances may result in a need to recognize an additional impairment charge.
Primarily as a result of our decision during the third quarter of 2017 to strategically realign our business in Australia, which includes reducing capacity in P&O Cruises Australia, we performed undiscounted cash flow analyses on certain ships as of July 31, 2017.
Based on these undiscounted cash flow analyses, we determined that certain ships had net carrying values that exceeded their estimated undiscounted future cash flows.
We estimated the July 31, 2017 fair values of these ships based on their discounted cash flows and comparable market transactions.
We then compared these estimated fair values to the net carrying values and, as a result, we recognized $304 million of ship impairment charges in the EAA segment, included in other ship operating expenses of our consolidated statements of income for the third quarter of 2017.
The principal assumptions used in our analyses consisted of forecasted future operating results, including net revenue yields and net cruise costs including fuel prices, estimated ship sale proceeds, and changes in strategy, including decisions about the transfer of ships between brands.
All principal assumptions are considered Level 3 inputs.
26  November30, in millions BalanceSheetLocation 2017 2016 Derivativeassets Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Net investment hedges a........................... Prepaid expenses and other $ 3 $ 12 Other assets - 3 Foreign currency zero cost collars b.................. Prepaid expenses and other 12 - Total derivative assets.................................. $ 15 $ 15  Derivatives designated as hedging instruments Net investment hedges a...........................
Accrued liabilities and other $ 13 $ 26 Other long-term liabilities 17 - Interest rate swaps c..............................
Accrued liabilities and other 10 10 Other long-term liabilities 17 23 Foreign currency zero cost collars b..................
Accrued liabilities and other - 12 Other long-term liabilities - 21 57 92 Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments Fuel d..........................................
Accrued liabilities and other 95 198 Other long-term liabilities 9 144 104 342 Total derivative liabilities............................... $161 $434 a At November 30, 2017 and 2016, we had foreign currency swaps totaling $324 million and $291 million, respectively, that are designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign operations with a eurodenominated functional currency.
At November 30, 2017, these foreign currency swaps settle through September 2019.
At November 30, 2016 we had foreign currency forwards totaling $456 million that were designated as hedges of our net investments in foreign operations, which have a euro-denominated functional currency.
b At November 30, 2017 and 2016, we had foreign currency derivatives consisting of foreign currency zero cost collars that are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges for a portion of our euro-denominated shipbuilding payments.
See Newbuild Currency Risks below for additional information regarding these derivatives.
c We have euro interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges whereby we receive floating interest rate payments in exchange for making fixed interest rate payments.
These interest rate swap agreements effectively changed $479 million at November 30, 2017 and $500 million at November 30, 2016 of EURIBOR-based floating rate euro debt to fixed rate euro debt.
At November 30, 2017, these interest rate swaps settle through March 2025. d At November 30, 2017 and 2016, we had fuel derivatives consisting of zero cost collars on Brent crude oil Brent to cover a portion of our estimated fuel consumption through 2018.
See Fuel Price Risks below for additional information regarding these fuel derivatives.
27 Our derivative contracts include rights of offset with our counterparties.
We have elected to net certain of our derivative assets and liabilities within counterparties.
November30,2017 GrossAmounts TotalNetAmounts GrossAmounts Offsetinthe Presentedinthe notOffsetinthe Net in millions GrossAmounts BalanceSheet BalanceSheet BalanceSheet Amounts Assets........... $ 15 $- $ 15 $ 8 $ 7 Liabilities........ $161 $- $161 $ 8 $153 November30,2016 GrossAmounts TotalNetAmounts GrossAmounts Offsetinthe Presentedinthe notOffsetinthe Net in millions GrossAmounts BalanceSheet BalanceSheet BalanceSheet Amounts Assets........... $ 15 $- $ 15 $ 15 $ - Liabilities........ $434 $- $434 $ 15 $419 The effective gain loss portions of our derivatives qualifying and designated as hedging instruments recognized in other comprehensive income loss were as follows: November30, in millions 2017 2016 2015 Net investment hedges................................................ $ 31 $ 33 $ 58 Foreign currency zero cost collars cash flow hedges........................ $ 45 $ 8 $ 57 Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges.................................... $ 8 $ 8 $ 2 There are no credit risk related contingent features in our derivative agreements, except for bilateral credit provisions within our fuel derivative counterparty agreements.
These provisions require cash collateral to be posted or received to the extent the fuel derivative fair value payable to or receivable from an individual counterparty exceeds $100 million.
At November 30, 2017 and 2016, no collateral was required to be posted to or received from our fuel derivative counterparties.
The amount of estimated cash flow hedges unrealized gains and losses that are expected to be reclassified to earnings in the next twelve months is not significant.
FinancialRisk FuelPriceRisks Substantially all of our exposure to market risk for changes in fuel prices relates to the consumption of fuel on our ships.
We have Brent call options and Brent put options, collectively referred to as zero cost collars, that establish ceiling and floor prices and mitigate a portion of our economic risk attributable to potential fuel price increases.
To maximize operational flexibility we utilized derivative markets with significant trading liquidity.
28 Our zero cost collars are based on Brent prices whereas the actual fuel used on our ships is marine fuel.
Changes in the Brent prices may not show a high degree of correlation with changes in our underlying marine fuel prices.
We will not realize any economic gain or loss upon the monthly maturities of our zero cost collars unless the average monthly price of Brent is above the ceiling price or below the floor price.
We believe that these zero cost collars will act as economic hedges: however, hedge accounting is not applied.
November30, in millions 2017 2016 2015 Unrealized gains losses on fuel derivatives, net................................ $ 227 $ 236 $ 332 Realized losses on fuel derivatives, net........................................ 192 283 244 Gains losses on fuel derivatives, net......................................... $ 35 $ 47 $ 576 At November 30, 2017, our outstanding fuel derivatives consisted of zero cost collars on Brent as follows: Transaction Barrels Weighted-Average Weighted-Average Maturities a Dates inthousands FloorPrices CeilingPrices Fiscal 2018 January 2014 2,700 $75 $110 October 2014 3,000 $80 $114 5,700 a Fuel derivatives mature evenly over each month in 2018.
 OverallStrategy We manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates through our normal operating and financing activities, including netting certain exposures to take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered appropriate, through the use of derivative and non-derivative financial instruments.
Our primary focus is to monitor our exposure to, and manage, the economic foreign currency exchange risks faced by our operations and realized if we exchange one currency for another.
We currently only hedge certain of our ship commitments and net investments in foreign operations.
The financial impacts of the hedging instruments we do employ generally offset the changes in the underlying exposures being hedged.
 Our EAA segment operations generate significant revenues and incur significant expenses in their functional currencies, which subjects us to foreign currency translational risk related to these currencies.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations in their functional currencies against the U. S. dollar will affect our reported financial results since the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar.
Any strengthening of the U. S. dollar against these foreign currencies has the financial statement effect of decreasing the U. S. dollar values reported for this segments revenues and expenses.
Any weakening of the U. S. dollar has the opposite effect.
Substantially all of our operations also have non-functional currency risk related to their international sales.
In addition, we have a portion of our operating expenses denominated in non-functional currencies.
Accordingly, we also have foreign currency transactional risks related to changes in the exchange rates for our revenues and expenses that are in a currency other than the functional currency.
The revenues and expenses which occur in the same non-functional currencies create some degree of natural offset.
29  We consider our investments in foreign operations to be denominated in stable currencies.
Our investments in foreign operations are of a long-term nature.
We have $5.3 billion and $415 million of euroand sterlingdenominated debt, respectively, including the effect of foreign currency swaps, which provides an economic offset for our operations with euro and sterling functional currency.
We also partially mitigate our net investment currency exposures by denominating a portion of our foreign currency intercompany payables in our foreign operations functional currencies.
 Our shipbuilding contracts are typically denominated in euros.
Our decision to hedge a non-functional currency ship commitment for our cruise brands is made on a case-by-case basis, considering the amount and duration of the exposure, market volatility, economic trends, our overall expected net cash flows by currency and other offsetting risks.
We use foreign currency derivative contracts to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk for some of our ship construction payments.
At November 30, 2017 for the following newbuilds, we had foreign currency zero cost collars for a portion of euro-denominated shipyard payments.
These collars are designated as cash flow hedges.
Weighted-Average Weighted-Average EnteredInto Maturesin FloorRate CeilingRate Carnival Horizon............. 2016 March 2018 $1.02 $1.25 Seabourn Ovation............ 2016 April 2018 $1.02 $1.25 Nieuw Statendam............. 2016 November 2018 $1.05 $1.25 If the spot rate is between the ceiling and floor rates on the date of maturity, then we would not owe or receive any payments under these collars.
At November 30, 2017, our remaining newbuild currency exchange rate risk primarily relates to eurodenominated newbuild contract payments, which represent a total unhedged commitment of $6.8 billion and substantially all relates to newbuilds scheduled to be delivered in 2019 through 2022 to non-euro functional currency brands.
The cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the future that is denominated in a different currency than our cruise brands will be affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
These foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may affect our decision to order new cruise ships.
InterestRateRisks We manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates through our debt portfolio management and investment strategies.
We evaluate our debt portfolio to determine whether to make periodic adjustments to the mix of fixed and floating rate debt through the use of interest rate swaps, issuance of new debt, amendment of existing debt or early retirement of existing debt.
 As part of our ongoing control procedures, we monitor concentrations of credit risk associated with financial and other institutions with which we conduct significant business.
We seek to minimize these credit risk exposures, including counterparty nonperformance primarily associated with our cash equivalents, investments, committed financing facilities, contingent obligations, derivative instruments, insurance contracts and new ship progress payment guarantees, by: 30
