| 70 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Glossary Borrowings at amortised cost is the nominal value of the NAV is net asset value per share after deducting Companys borrowings less any unamortised issue borrowings at amortised cost or market value, as stated.
NAV total return is the measure of how the Companys Borrowings at market value is the Companys estimate NAV has performed over a period of time, taking into of the fair value of its borrowings.
The current estimated account both capital returns and entitlement to fair value of the Companys borrowings is based on the dividends declared by the Company.
redemption yield of the relevant existing reference gilt plus a margin derived from the spread of BBB UK Ongoing charges figure is the measure of the regular, corporate bond yields 15 years over UK gilt yields recurring costs of the Company expressed as a 15 years.
The reference gilt for the secured bonds is percentage of the average daily shareholders funds the 6% UK Treasury Stock 2028 and the reference gilt for with borrowings at market value.
the perpetual debenture stocks is the longest-dated UK Treasury stock listed in the Financial Times.
Portfolio turnover rate is the average of investment purchases and sales expressed as a percentage of Discount is the difference between the market price of a opening total assets.
share and the NAV, expressed as a percentage of the NAV.
Share price total return is the measure of how the Companys share price has performed over a period of Ex-income NAV is the NAV excluding current year time, taking into account both capital returns and revenue.
entitlement to dividends declared by the Company.
Gearing is the true geared position of the Company: Total assets means total assets less current liabilities.
borrowings less cash and equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Gross gearing is the geared position if all the borrowings were invested in equities: borrowings expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 71
