| 66 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Investor Information Investors who hold share certificates can check their How to invest holdings by registering on the Companys registrars You can buy the Companys shares directly on website, www.
co. uk or through the the stockmarket through a stockbroker or a share link in the shareholder information section on the dealing platform.
Your bank, lawyer, accountant Companys website, www.
co. uk or other professional adviser may also be able to help with this.
The Companys registrar, Please note that to access this facility, investors will Computershare Investor Services PLC, provides need to quote the shareholder reference number a share dealing service which can be accessed shown on their share certificate.
co. uk or by By registering for the Investor Centre facility on telephoning 0370 703 0195.
Computershares website, investors can also view details of all their holdings for which Computershare is registrar, as well as access additional facilities and Dividends documentation.
The following dividends have been paid during 2016 17: Please see www.
co. uk for further information.
Record Payment Dividends Amount XD date date date Interim 2017 5.50p 29 June 30 June 28 July Electronic communications 2017 2017 2017 Shareholders who hold share certificates Investors who hold share certificates may choose to Final 2016 8.25p 31 December 13 January 17 February receive the Companys interim and Annual Reports 2016 2017 2017 and other shareholder communications electronically Special 2016 9.00p 31 December 13 January 17 February instead of in paper form.
2016 2017 2017 To register, simply visit the link in the shareholder information section on the Companys website, www.
co. uk and provide email details.
Shareholders who hold share certificates Investors will then be advised by email when an For shareholders who hold share certificates investors electronic communication is available to be accessed.
whose names are on the Companys share register, dividends are automatically paid as income.
However, Other publications it is easy to arrange to have these dividends reinvested If you would like to receive electronic versions of our by joining the Companys Dividend Reinvestment newsletter, monthly factsheet and alerts when we Plan DRIP.
Details are available from Computershare publish information on the company please register Investor Services, the Companys registrar, on 0370 your email address at www.
co. uk subscribe 703 0195, or from the literature section on the Companys website, www.
co. uk Shareholders meetings Shareholders who hold share certificates Monitoring your investment Investors who hold share certificates are entitled The Companys share price, together with performance to attend and vote at the AGM and other general information can be found on the Companys website, meetings.
Notices of meetings and proxy cards are sent www.
co. uk to their registered addresses.
A number of financial websites, such as the Financial The AGM will be held at the Royal College of Physicians Times, www.
ft. com and the London Stock Exchange, of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh EH2 1JQ, on www.
com carry share price Friday 2 February 2018 at 10.30am.
In addition, the share price is published daily in most quality newspapers.
The Company publishes a daily NAV and a monthly factsheet on its website.
An Interim Report is issued in June of each year and the Annual Report is distributed to all investors in December.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 67 Investor Information continued Investors who are in any doubt as to their liability for Attendance at AGM CGT should seek professional advice.
All investors are welcome to attend our AGM.
If your shares are held on the main register please ISA investments remain exempt from CGT.
return your proxy card to Computershare, the Please remember that we are unable to offer individual Companys Registrar.
If you require such advice, If your shares are held by your stockbroker or other you should consult your professional adviser.
platform nominee please email info@thescottish.
co. uk to reserve your place.
The Common Reporting Standard With effect from 1 January 2016 all new shareholders Electronic voting outside of CREST will be sent a certification Shareholders who hold share certificates form for the collection of information required for Shareholders who hold share certificates are able to compliance with The OECD Common Reporting submit proxy votes electronically for the AGM.
Please Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account follow the instructions on your proxy card.
Information The Common Reporting Standard.
Further information can be found on HMRCs website: Voting www.
uk government publications exchange-ofIf you hold your shares through AJ Bell Youinvest you .
can ask them to vote your shares.
To do this you will need to log into your account and send them a secure Retail investors advised by IFAs message not email with your instructions for each The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its resolution.
shares can be recommended by Independent Financial If you hold your shares through a stockbroker or other Advisors IFAs to retail private investors in accordance platform nominee you should contact them to make with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA rules arrangements to vote.
in relation to non-mainstream pooled investment producers.
You will not be able to vote at the meeting if your shares are held in a nominee.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in a UK-listed investment trust.
Personal taxation Dividend tax allowance The Company will continue to provide registered Risk warning shareholders with a confirmation of the dividends paid Past performance may not be repeated and is not and this should be included with any other dividend a guide to future performance.
The value of shares income received when calculating and reporting and the income from them can go down as well as total dividend income received.
It is the shareholders up as a result of market and currency fluctuations.
responsibility to include all dividend income when You may not get back the amount you invest.
The calculating any tax liability.
Scottish Investment Trust PLC has a long-term policy If you have any tax queries, please contact a Financial of borrowing money to invest in equities in the Advisor.
expectation that this will improve returns but should stockmarkets fall, such borrowings would magnify Capital Gains Tax CGT losses on these investments.
The Company can buy When investors sell all or part of their holdings, they back and cancel its own shares.
All other things may be liable to CGT.
Currently, the first 11,300 being equal, this would have the effect of increasing per annum of such gains from all sources is exempt gearing.
Investment in The Scottish Investment Trust 11,700 for 2018 19 tax year.
is intended as a long-term investment.
Tax rates and For investors who acquired shares prior to 31 March reliefs can change in the future and the value of any tax 1982, the cost for CGT purposes may be based on the advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
| 68 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 69 Financial Calendar 2018 Dividend and interest payments Announcement of results Final and special for the financial year NAV Daily to 31 October 2017 9 February 2018 Interim figures June First Interim May 2018 Final figures December Second Interim August 2018 Annual Report & Accounts December Third Interim November 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM 2 February 2018 Final February 2019 Secured bonds 17 April, 17 October Perpetual debenture stock 30 April, 31 October Useful Addresses Registered Office The Association of Investment Companies 6 Albyn Place The Scottish Investment Trust is a member of The Edinburgh EH2 4NL Association of Investment Companies AIC which Registered no.
SC001651 publishes a number of useful fact sheets and email Telephone: 0131 225 7781 updates for investors interested in investment trust Website: www.
co. uk The AIC Company Secretary 9th Floor Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited 24 Chiswell Street 20 Forth Street London EC1Y 4YY Edinburgh EH1 3LH Telephone: 0207 282 5555 Website: www.
co. uk Depositary Northern Trust Global Services Limited 50 Bank Street For valuations and other details of your investment or to Canary Wharf notify a change of address please contact the following: London E14 5NT Shareholders who hold share certificates: Custodian Computershare Investor Services PLC The Northern Trust Company The Pavilions 50 Bank Street Bridgwater Road Canary Wharf Bristol BS99 6ZZ London E14 5NT Helpline: 0370 703 0195 Website: www.
co. uk Auditor Deloitte LLP Saltire Court 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh EH1 2DB Actuaries Punter Southall & Co 7 Castle Street Edinburgh EH2 3AH
