| 72 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which thirtieth Annual General Meeting AGM of The Scottish may be paid for a share shall be the higher of: Investment Trust PLC will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh i 105% of the average of the middle market EH2 1JQ, on Friday 2 February 2018 at 10.30am, for the quotations as derived from the Daily Official purpose of transacting the following: List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date 1.
To receive and consider the Directors Report and of purchase: and Accounts for the year to 31 October 2017. ii the higher of the price of the last independent 2.
To approve the Directors' remuneration policy.
trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for carried out: the year to 31 October 2017. d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the 4.
To declare a final dividend of 14.50p per share.
authority hereby conferred shall expire on 2 May 2019, save that the Company may, prior to such 5.
To declare a special dividend of 5.00p per share.
expiry, enter into a contract to purchase shares under such authority which will or might be 6.
To elect Karyn Lamont as a Director.
executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of shares 7.
To re-elect James Will as a Director.
pursuant to any such contract.
To re-elect Russell Napier as a Director.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions except number 12 which is a special resolution.
To re-elect Jane Lewis as a Director.
To re-elect Mick Brewis as a Director.
Maitland Administration Services Scotland Limited Company Secretary 11.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to 8 December 2017 authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Map showing location of AGM venue 12.
To authorise the Company, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and in substitution for any pre-existing such authority, to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 of the Act of shares of 25p each for cancellation, provided that: a the maximum number of shares hereby Map image required authorised to be purchased shall be 11,785,598 or, if less, 14.99% of the aggregate issued shares on the date this resolution is passed: b the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 25p: | The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 73 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes For a proxy appointment or instruction made using the Arrangements have been made to enable all investors CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST to attend, speak and vote at the AGM message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Registered shareholders whose names appear on the Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the Companys register of members no later than 48 hours information required for such instruction, as described in excluding non-working days prior to the the CREST manual.
The message, regardless of whether commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote or be amendment to the instruction given to a previously represented at the meeting in respect of the shares appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the transmitted so as to be received by the Companys register of members after the relevant deadline shall be registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST disregarded in determining the rights of any person to ID number 3RA50 no later than 48 hours excluding attend and vote at the meeting.
non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will A member entitled to attend, speak and vote at the be taken to be the time as determined by the time meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to stamp applied to the message by the CREST Application attend, speak and vote on his or her behalf.
If a Host from which the Companys registrar is able to shareholder wishes to appoint more than one proxy, retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner each proxy must be appointed to exercise rights prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of attaching to a different share or shares held by the instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the be communicated to the appointee by other means.
Company but must attend the AGM to represent the relevant shareholder.
Shareholders may not use any CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST electronic address provided either in this notice or any sponsors or voting service provider s should note that related documents, including the proxy form, to Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited does not make communicate with the Company for any purpose other available special procedures in CREST for any particular than those expressly stated.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy A proxy may only be appointed using the procedure set Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member out in these notes and the notes to the proxy form.
Proxy concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST forms and the original or duly certified copy of the personal member, or sponsored member, or has power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that it is signed or authenticated, must be lodged with the his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s Companys registrar not less than 48 hours excluding such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a non-working days before the meeting or, in the case of message is transmitted by means of the CREST system a poll taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded, by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST not less than 24 hours, excluding non-working days, members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a member those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical from attending the meeting and voting in person.
limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation or proxies through the CREST electronic 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations proxy appointment service may do so by 2001. using the procedures described in the CREST Manual and by logging on to the website Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights www.
CREST personal members in the Company who appoints a person other than the or other CREST-sponsored members and those CREST Chairman as his proxy will need to ensure that both he members who have appointed a voting service provider, and such third party comply with their respective should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and provider who will be able to take the appropriate action Transparency Rules.
On 7 December 2017, the on their behalf.
Companys issued share capital comprised 78,623,069.
| 74 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued shares none of which is held in treasury.
Each share The Directors letters of appointment are available for carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the inspection at the registered office of the Company Company.
during normal business hours on any weekday.
The register of Directors interests maintained by the Accordingly, as at 7 December 2017, the total number Company together with copies of Directors of voting rights exercisable at the AGM was 78,623,069. appointment letters will be available at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes prior to the commencement of Shareholders may require the Company to publish, on the AGM until the conclusion thereof.
No Director has its website, without payment, a statement, which is also any service contract with the Company.
passed to the auditor, setting out any matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Investors whose holdings are in nominee names and auditors report and the conduct of the audit, which they who wish to attend and vote are advised to contact their intend to raise at the meeting.
The Company will be nominee before 26 January 2018. required to do so once it has received such requests from either i members representing at least 5% of the The final and special dividends, if approved, total voting rights of the Company or ii at least 100 will be paid on 9 February 2018 to shareholders members who have rights to vote and hold shares in the registered at the close of business on 12 January 2018.
Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such requests must This report was sent to the address at present registered be made in writing and must state the members full for communications.
Any change of address should be name and address and be sent to the Companys notified to the Companys registrar or the savings registered office at 6 Albyn Place, Edinburgh, EH2 4NL.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Further information regarding the AGM, including the information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is available from www.
co. uk Under section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company must answer any question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member attending the meeting unless: a answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
| The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 75 | | 6 ALBYN PLACE EDINBURGH EH2 4NL | T: 0131 225 7781 E: info@thescottish.
