The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 General Shareholder Information AIFMD Disclosures Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers FATCA is a United States federal law enacted in 2010 whose intent Directive AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage is to enforce the requirement for United States persons including and remuneration of Janus Henderson, as the Companys Alternative those living outside the USA to file yearly reports on their non-USA Investment Fund Manager AIFM are required to be made available financial accounts.
As a result of HMRCs change of interpretation to investors.
These disclosures, including those on the AIFMs on the meaning of shares and securities regularly traded on an remuneration policy, are contained in a separate document called established securities market, investment trusts now need to monitor AIFMD Disclosure which can be found on the Companys website.
each year the trading volume and frequency of their shares and securities to assess whether they have financial accounts.
The Company will therefore need to make an annual assessment, before BACS the FATCA return is due, to determine if the shares represent Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Bankers financial accounts and, where they do, will need to identify and report Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms for this purpose are USA reportable accounts to HMRC, as required.
available from the UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the UK Registrar the address is given on ISA page 24 to give their instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order to to which payments are to be made.
qualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Shareholders on the register in New Zealand can have their Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments dividends paid in New Zealand dollars by writing to the New Zealand Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc the address isgiven NMPI status on page 24.
The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary shares of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Common Reporting Standard FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and Tax legislation under The Organisation for Economic Co-operation intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares and Development Common Reporting Standard for Automatic are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to nonExchange of Financial Account Information was introduced with mainstream investment products because they are shares in an effect from 1January 2016.
The legislation requires the Company investment trust.
toprovide personal information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
This information will have to beprovided annually to the local tax authority of the tax residencies Packaged Retail and Insurance-based of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders and Investment Products Regulation PRIIPs corporate entities.
KeyInformation Document KID Investors should be aware that the PRIIPs Regulation requires the Equality Act 2010 Manager, as the PRIIP manufacturer, to prepare a key information Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company document in respect of the Company.
This KID must be made are available from the Corporate Secretary.
If needed, copies can be available by the Manager to retail investors prior to them making made available in a variety of formats, including Braille or larger type anyinvestment decision and is available on the Companys website.
The Company is not responsible for the information contained in theKID and investors should note that the procedures for You can contact the Registrar, which has installed textphones to calculatingthe risks, costs and potential returns are prescribed allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own bythe law.
The figures in the KID may not reflect the expected textphone to contact them directly, without the need for an returns for the Company and anticipated performance returns intermediate operator by dialling 0371 384 2255.
operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
69 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 General Shareholder Information continued Performance Details Share Price Information Details of the Companys share price and NAV per share can be found on www.
The Companys NAV per share is published daily.
Shareholder Details Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check their shareholding with the Registrar contact details can be found onpage 24.
There is now a range of shareholder information online.
You can check your holding and find practical help on transferring shares orupdating your details at www.
Share Price Listings The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published daily in The Financial Times.
The Financial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV per share and the discount.
The market price of the Companys shares can be found in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Warning to Shareholders Companys UK Registrar, Equiniti Limited, or the New Zealand Many companies have become aware that their shareholders have Registrar, Computershare Investor Services plc, would make received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls investment matters.
These are typically from overseas-based would relate only to official documentation already circulated to 'brokers' who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what shareholders and never in respect of investment 'advice'.
often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary call, please call either the Corporate Secretary or the Registrar at ofany unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or the numbers provided on page 24. offers of free company reports.
