Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information GLOSSARY Non-GAAP measures are provided because they are closely tracked by management to evaluate Britvics operating performance and to make financial, strategic and operating decisions.
Volume is defined as number of litres sold, excluding factored brands sold by Counterpoint in Ireland.
No volume is recorded in respect of international concentrate sales.
AER refers to Actual Exchange Rate where variances are calculated on sterling values translated at actual exchange rate.
ARP is defined as average revenue per litre sold, excluding factored brands and concentrate sales.
Revenue is defined as sales achieved by the group net of price promotional investment and retailer discounts.
Brand contribution is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as revenue less material costs and all other marginal costs that management considers to be directly attributable to the sale of a given product.
Such costs include brand specific advertising and promotion costs, raw materials, and marginal production and distribution costs.
Brand contribution margin is a non-GAAP measure and is a percentage measure calculated as brand contribution, divided by revenue.
Each business units performance is reported down to the brand contribution level.
Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure defined as operating profit before adjusting items, depreciation, amortisation, impairment of PPE intangible assets and profit loss from sale of PPE intangible assets.
Adjusted EBITA is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as operating profit before adjusting items and amortisation.
Only amortisation attributable to intangibles related to acquisitions is added back, in the period this is 10.7m 2016: 7.4m.
EBITA margin is EBITA as a proportion of group revenue.
Adjusted earnings per share are a non-GAAP measure calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by the average number of shares during the period.
Adjusted earnings is defined as the profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders before adjusting items and adjusted for the adding back of acquisition related amortisation.
Average number of shares during the period is defined as the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period excluding any own shares held by Britvic that are used to satisfy various employee share-based incentive programmes.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for adjusted earnings per share for the period was 263.0m 2016: 261.7m.
Adjusted free cash flow is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as net cash flow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments and adjusting items.
Adjusted net debt is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as group net debt, adding back the impact of derivatives hedging the balance sheet debt.
Organic is a non-GAAP measure and excludes the impact of the acquisition of Bela Ischia and on a constant currency basis.
Innovation is defined as new launches over the last three years, excluding new flavours and pack sizes of established brands.
Revenue management is a measure and is used to define a range of actions to affect ARP.
It includes, but is not limited to, price increases, changes to price promotions and variation of pack size.
Quality distribution is a measure used to describe the placement of products in the appropriate outlets for the specified product.
Retail market value and volume is a measure and is a measure of the recorded sales at the retail point of purchase.
This data is typically collated by independent organisations such as Nielsen and IRI from data supplied by retailers.
A&P is a measure of marketing spend including marketing, research and advertising.
Non-working A&P is a measure of marketing spend that is not spent directly on consumer facing activity.
It would include, but not limited to, agency fees, research and production costs.
Constant currency is a non-GAAP measure of performance in the underlying currency to eliminate the impact of foreign exchange movements.
Great Place to Work GPTW is a methodology process adopted by businesses to measure employee engagement.
Britvic plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151
