The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Yield The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Directive AIFMD Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union and adopted into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies certain Investment Trusts investment vehicles, including investment companies, as Alternative Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint an Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Depositary to managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from manage and oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to Board of the Company retains responsibility for strategy, operations meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is and compliance and the Directors retain a fiduciary duty to substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also shareholders.
known as investment companies although the tax legislation retains the reference to investment trusts.
Association of Investment Companies AIC The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for Liquidity investment companies and represents the industry in relation to In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid that share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares Custodian should find ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price Companys assets and that all transactions in the underlying that might be negotiated for a sale.
holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
Market Capitalisation Market Cap Depositary The market value of a company calculated by multiplying the From 22 July 2014 AIFs were required to appoint a Depositary which mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
has responsibility for overseeing the operations of the Company, including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of ownership and valuation of the underlying holdings.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the loss of any investments or other assets in its custody unless it has notified that it has discharged its liability in certain markets.
TheDepositary has confirmed that it has not discharged liability inrelation to any of the Companys assets.
Derivative A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying security.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying securitys value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Dividend Dates When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which shareholders will receive their dividend either by BACS transfer or by receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the dividend is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know which shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on the record date will receive the dividend.
The ex-dividend date is the business day before the record date and is the date upon which the Companys net asset value per share will be disclosed ex-dividend.
