SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AGM WEBSITE The AGM will be held at 1st Floor, North Building, 200 Aldersgate, The Groups corporate website, www.
com, London EC1A 4HD on 8 February 2018 at 10.30am.
The last date provides information including: for AGM proxy votes to be received by the Registrar is 10.30am news, updates, press releases and regulatory announcements: 6 February 2018. investor information, including the Annual Report, financial results, financial calendar and share price information: All Shareholders can submit their proxy vote for the AGM details of Shareholder meetings and poll results: electronically at www.
To register their vote, biographies of the Board of Directors: Shareholders will need the numbers detailed on their form of proxy.
the Companys Articles of Association, the Terms of Reference for Alternatively, Shareholders who have already registered the Committees of the Board and the Board Appointments Policy: with Shareview can submit their proxy vote by logging on to and www.
co. uk and clicking on the link to vote underneath sustainability reporting.
their Thomas Cook Group plc holding.
MULTIPLE ACCOUNTS ON THE SHARE REGISTER SHARE REGISTER AND SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES If a Shareholder receives two or more sets of the documents The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
concerning the AGM, this means that there is more than one account Queries relating to Thomas Cook Group plc shares should be in their name on the Shareholder register, perhaps because either the addressed to: name or the address appears on each account in a slightly different The Registrar way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not amalgamate the accounts Equiniti without the Shareholders written consent.
Therefore, if a Shareholder Aspect House would like their multiple accounts to be combined, they should write Spencer Road to Equiniti, detailing the different Shareholder reference numbers, and Lancing request that they be combined into one account.
West Sussex BN99 6DA ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Tel: 0371 384 2154 At the AGM on 10 April 2008, the Company passed a resolution International telephone number: 44 0 121 415 0182 allowing the Groups corporate website to be used as the primary Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm London time, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
means of communication with its Shareholders.
A consultation card was sent to Shareholders enabling them to choose either to: Shareholders should quote the Company reference number 3174 and their Shareholder reference number which can be found on their receive notification by email when Shareholder documentation is share certificates, when contacting the Registrar.
available on the website: or continue to receive Shareholder documentation in hard copy.
SHAREVIEW Shareholders who did not respond were deemed, in accordance To be able to access information about their shares and other with the Companies Act 2006, to have agreed to receive Shareholder investments online, Shareholders can register with Shareview documentation via the Companys corporate website.
Registration is free: Shareholders will need their Shareholder reference number which is shown on their These arrangements for electronic Shareholder communications form of proxy and share certificate.
By registering for this service, provide Shareholders with the opportunity to access information in Shareholders will: a timely manner and help the Company to reduce both its costs and its environmental impact.
help reduce paper, print and postage costs: help the environment: DIVIDEND be able to submit their queries by email: and The Board has proposed a final dividend of 0.6 pence per share.
be able to manage their shareholding easily and securely online.
The ex-dividend date will be 8 March 2018 and, subject to Once registered, whenever Shareholder documents are available, Shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting, the final Shareholders will be sent a link to the appropriate website, dividend of 0.6 pence will be paid on 5 April 2018 to Shareholders on where the documents will be available to view or download.
the register at the close of business on 9 March 2018.
Receiving documents online does not affect Shareholders rights inany way.
More information about our dividend policy can be found on page 73.
If you have any questions about the payment of this dividend, please contact our Registrars Equiniti, whose contact details are set out on this page.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 183 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED THOMAS COOK AG MYTRAVEL GROUP PLC REPORT A SCAM MERGER If you are approached about a share scam you should tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.
uk scams, Thomas Cook Group plc was formed in June 2007 upon the merger where you can find out about the latest investment scams.
You can ofThomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc.
also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
If you have MyTravel Group plc Shareholders received one Thomas Cook already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Group plc Ordinary Share for every one MyTravel Group plc share Fraud on 0300 123 2040. previously held.
MyTravel Group plc share certificates are no longer valid and can be destroyed.
Replacement Thomas Cook Group plc SHAREGIFT share certificates were sent to Shareholders, who held shares in Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which certificated form, on or around 19 June 2007.
If you have any queries make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them relating to this, please contact the Registrar.
to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity Number 1052686, whichspecialises in using such holdings for charitable benefit.
WARNING TO SHAREHOLDERS ABOUT SHARE Find out more about ShareGift at www.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
SHAREVIEW DEALING A telephone and internet dealing service has been arranged They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or throughthe Registrar to provide a simple way of buying and non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an selling Thomas Cook Group plc shares for existing and prospective upfront payment.
For telephone dealing call 03456 037 037 While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way international telephone number: 44 0 121 415 7560 between you will probably lose your money.
8.00am and 4.30pm London time, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays, or visit the website: www.
5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority about share Shareholders will need the Shareholder reference number shown on fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000. their share certificate s. How to avoid share fraud If you are offered unsolicited investment advice, discounted CAUTIONARY STATEMENT shares, a premium price for shares you own, or free company or This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for the research reports, you should take these steps before handing over members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
any money: The Company, its Directors, employees, agents or advisers do not 1.
Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares.
document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties facing andfirm contacting you and then end the call.
the Group in this Annual Report involve uncertainty since future 3.
Check the Financial Services Register from www.
uk events and circumstances can cause results and developments to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by to differ materially from those anticipated.
statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date 4.
Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes copying its website or giving you false contact details.
no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back.
Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date.
Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
184 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Registered office 3rd Floor, South Building, 200 Aldersgate, London EC1A 4HD Registered Number: 6091951 SHAREHOLDER CONTACTS Shareholder Helpline: 0371 384 2154 International telephone number: 44 0 121 415 0182 Website: www.
co. uk Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm London time Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
FINANCIAL CALENDAR Date Event 8 February 2018 Q1 2018 Quarterly Results 8 February 2018 Annual General Meeting 17 May 2018 Interim results for six months ended 31 March 2018 31 July 2018 Q3 2018 Quarterly Results www.
com The Thomas Cook Group website provides news and details of the Groups activities, plus links to our customer sites and up-to-date information, including: This report is printed on Edixion Offset, produced at a mill certified c orporate news to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental management standards.
presentations Manufactured using responsible sources and is FSC certified.
share price data This report is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
historic Annual and Sustainability Reports Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar.
half-year results and interim management statements Printed by Park Communications.
n ews alerts career opportunities WWW.
