FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Accounting Policies For the year ended 30 September 2017 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 1.5 Revenue recognition accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the EU and in accordance Revenue is measured as the fair value of the consideration with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable to companies received or receivable for goods and services supplied to reporting under IFRS.
The accounting policies set out below have customers, after deducting sales allowances and value added been consistently applied in 2017 and the comparative year.
taxes: revenue receivable for services supplied to customers, as opposed to goods, is less than ca.
There were no new Standards, amendments or interpretations Revenue is recognised when the risk and rewards of ownership to existing Standards which have been published and endorsed transfers to the customer, which depending on individual by the EU and which have a significant impact on the results, customer terms, is at the time of despatch, delivery or upon financial position or presentation of the consolidated financial formal customer acceptance.
Provision is made for returns statements for the year ended 30 September 2017. where appropriate.
Service revenue received in advance is deferred and recognised on a pro rata basis over the period 1.1 Basis of preparation of the contract.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except for derivative 1.6 Employee benefits financial instruments which are held at fair value.
The The Group operates a number of pension plans, both of the consolidated financial statements have been prepared defined contribution and defined benefit type.
The defined on a going concern basis, as discussed on page 65. benefit plan is operated by Diploma Holdings PLC and is closed to the accrual of further benefits.
1.2 Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial a Defined contribution pension plans: Contributions to the statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Groups defined contribution schemes are recognised as an Company its subsidiaries.
Control exists when the Company employee benefit expense when they fall due.
has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The assets, b Defined benefit pension plan: The deficit recognised in the liabilities and results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of balance sheet for the Groups defined benefit pension plan is during the year are included in the Consolidated Income the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the balance sheet date less the fair value of the scheme assets.
effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated by independent actuaries using the projected unit cost method and by Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial discounting the estimated future cash flows using interest statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into rates on high quality corporate bonds.
The pension expense line with those detailed herein to ensure that the Group financial for the Groups defined benefit plan is recognised as follows: statements are prepared on a consistent basis.
All intra-Group i Within the Consolidated Income Statement: transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in Gains and losses arising on settlements and preparing the consolidated financial statements.
curtailments where the item that gave rise to the settlement or curtailment is recognised in operating Non-controlling interests, defined as minority interests, in the profit.
net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately Interest cost on the net deficit in the plan calculated from the Groups equity therein.
Minority interests consist of the by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit amount of those interests at the date of the original business liability at the start of the annual reporting period.
combination and the minoritys share of changes in equity since ii Within the Consolidated Statement of Income and Other the date of the combination.
Comprehensive Income Other Comprehensive Income : Actuarial gains and losses arising on the assets and 1.3 Acquisitions liabilities of the plan arising from actual experience and Acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method as any changes in assumptions at the end of the year.
at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Goodwill at the acquisition date The Group has adopted a policy of recognising all actuarial represents the cost of the business combination excluding gains and losses for its defined benefit plan in the period in acquisition related costs, which are expensed as incurred plus which they occur, outside the Consolidated Income the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree in Statement, but in Other Comprehensive Income.
excess of the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
c Share-based payments: Equity-settled transactions which are where the Executive Directors and certain senior Minority interests may be initially measured at fair value or, employees receive a part of their remuneration in the form of alternatively, at the minority interests proportionate share of shares in the Company, or rights over shares are measured the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at The choice of measurement basis is made for each business the grant date takes account of the effect of market based combination separately.
measures, such as the Total Shareholder Return TSR targets upon which vesting of part of the award is conditional 1.4 Divestments and is expensed to the Consolidated Income Statement The results and cash flows of major lines of businesses that have on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a been divested have been classified as discontinued businesses.
The cumulative expense There were no discontinued operations in either 2017 or 2016. recognised is adjusted to take account of shares forfeited by Executives who leave during the performance or vesting period and, in the case of non-market related performance conditions, where it becomes unlikely that shares will vest.
For the market-based measure, the Directors have used a predicted future value model to determine fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
88 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Group operates an Employee Benefit Trust for the 1.8 Taxation granting of shares to Executives.
The cost of shares in the The tax expense relates to the sum of current tax and Company purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust are deferred tax.
shown as a deduction from equity.
Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, which differs 1.7 Foreign currencies from profit before taxation as reported in the Consolidated The individual financial statements of each Group entity are Income Statement.
Taxable profit excludes items of income and prepared in their functional currency, which is the currency expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and also of the primary economic environment in which that entity excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial liability for current tax, including UK corporation tax and statements, the results and financial position of each entity are overseas tax, is calculated using rates that have been enacted or translated into UK sterling, which is the presentational currency substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability a Reporting foreign currency transactions in functional currency: method.
Deferred tax is recognised on differences between Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial currency foreign currencies are initially recorded at the rates statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Deferred tax liabilities are At each subsequent balance sheet date: generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and i Foreign currency monetary items are retranslated at deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Exchange probable that taxable profits will be available against which differences arising on the settlement or retranslation deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Temporary of monetary items are recognised in the Consolidated differences arise primarily from the recognition of the deficit on Income Statement.
the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the difference ii Non-monetary items measured at historical cost in between accelerated capital allowances and depreciation and a foreign currency are not retranslated.
for short term timing differences where a provision held against iii Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign receivables or inventory is not deductible for taxation purposes.
currency are retranslated using the exchange rates at the However, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if date the fair value was determined.
Where a gain or loss the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial on non-monetary items is recognised directly in equity, recognition other than in a business combination of other any exchange component of that gain or loss is also assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax recognised directly in equity and conversely, where profit, nor the accounting profit.
a gain or loss on a non-monetary item is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement, any exchange Deferred tax liabilities are also recognised for taxable temporary component of that gain or loss is also recognised in the differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where Consolidated Income Statement.
the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is possible that the temporary difference will b Translation from functional currency to presentational not reverse in the foreseeable future.
No deferred tax is currency: recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries, When the functional currency of a Group entity is different as the Group controls the dividend policies of its subsidiaries.
from the Groups presentational currency, its results and financial position are translated into the presentational Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to currency as follows: apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability is i Assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates settled.
Deferred tax is charged or credited to the Consolidated prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income Statement, except when the item on which the tax or ii Income and expense items are translated at average charge is credited or charged directly to equity, in which case exchange rates for the year, except where the use of such the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
The carrying amount an average rate does not approximate the exchange rate of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date at the date of the transaction, in which case the and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that transaction rate is used.
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of iii All resulting exchange differences are recognised in Other the assets to be recovered.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset Comprehensive Income: these cumulative exchange when there is a legally enforceable right to enforce current tax differences are recognised in the Consolidated Income assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred Statement in the period in which the foreign operation income tax relates to the same fiscal authority.
1.9 Property, plant and equipment c Net investment in foreign operations: Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less Exchange differences arising on a monetary item that accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
forms part of a reporting entitys net investment in a Cost comprises the purchase price plus costs directly incurred in foreign operation are recognised in the Consolidated bringing the asset into use, but excluding interest.
All repairs Income Statement in the separate financial statements of and maintenance expenditure is charged to the Consolidated the reporting entity or the foreign operation as appropriate.
Income Statement in the period in which it is incurred.
In the consolidated financial statements such exchange differences are initially recognised in Other Comprehensive Income as a separate component of equity and subsequently recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on disposal of the net investment.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 1.9 Property, plant and equipment continued d Goodwill business combinations Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other items of Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary represents the property, plant and equipment begins when the asset is available excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration for use and is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on over the aggregate fair value of the identifiable intangible, a straight-line basis to write off the cost, less residual value of the tangible and current assets and net of the aggregate fair value asset, over its estimated useful life as follows: of the liabilities including contingent liabilities of businesses acquired at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially Freehold property between 20 and 50 years recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Transaction costs Leasehold property term of the lease are expensed and are not included in the cost of acquisition.
Plant and equipment plant and machinery between 3 and 7 years 1.11 Impairment of tangible and intangible assets IT hardware between 3 and 5 years An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying fixtures and fittings between 5 and amount of an asset or cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its 15 years recoverable amount.
Hospital field equipment 5 years The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the higher of: The depreciation method used, residual values and estimated i its fair value less costs to sell: and ii its value in use: its value useful lives are reviewed and changed, if appropriate, at least at in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to each financial year end.
Assets held under finance leases are be derived from the asset or CGU, discounted using a pre-tax depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or lease.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately cash-generating unit.
Impairment losses are recognised to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Gains and losses arising on disposals are determined by comparing sales a Impairment of goodwill proceeds with carrying amount and are recognised in the Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to a Consolidated Income Statement.
CGU: CGUs for this purpose are the Groups three Sectors which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill 1.10 Intangible assets is monitored by the Groups Board of Directors for internal and All intangible assets, excluding goodwill arising on a business management purposes.
CGUs to which goodwill has been combination, are stated at their amortised cost or fair value less allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently any provision for impairment.
when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
a Research and development costs If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying Research expenditure is written off as incurred.
Development amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to costs are written off as incurred unless forecast revenues for a reduce the goodwill attributable to the CGU.
Impairment losses particular project exceed attributable forecast development cannot be subsequently reversed.
costs in which case they are capitalised and amortised on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated useful life.
Costs b Impairment of other tangible and intangible assets are capitalised as intangible assets unless physical assets, Other tangible and intangible assets are reviewed for such as tooling, exist when they are classified as property, impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate plant and equipment.
the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the b Computer software costs Consolidated Income Statement.
Where computer software is not integral to an item of property, plant or equipment its costs are capitalised as other intangible 1.12 Inventories assets.
Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis over its Inventories are stated at the lower of cost generally calculated useful economic life of between three and seven years.
on a weighted average cost basis and net realisable value, after making due allowance for any obsolete or slow moving inventory.
c Acquired intangible assets business combinations Cost comprises direct materials, duty and freight-in costs.
Intangible assets that may be acquired as a result of a business combination, include, but are not limited to, customer lists, Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less supplier lists, databases, technology and software and patents all estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs that can be separately measured at fair value, on a reliable basis, necessary to make the sale.
are separately recognised on acquisition at the fair value, together with the associated deferred tax liability.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis to the Consolidated Income Statement over the expected useful economic lives.
Fair values of customer and supplier relationships on larger acquisitions are valued using a discounted cash flow model: databases are valued using a replacement cost model.
For smaller acquisitions, intangible assets are assessed using historical experience of similar transactions.
90 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.13 Financial instruments f Borrowings Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Group Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the consideration received.
They are subsequently measured at contractual provisions of the instrument.
Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment date is more than 12 months from the period-end a Trade receivables date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 Trade receivables are initially measured at fair value, do not carry months to expiry.
any interest and are reduced by a charge for impairment for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such impairment charges are 1.14 Investments available for sale financial assets recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
The investment held by the Group comprises equity shares which are not held for the purposes of equity trading and in b Trade payables accordance with IAS39 is classified as available for sale.
They Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are initially are initially recognised at fair value.
Subsequent to initial measured at their nominal value.
recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income.
c Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, interest 1.15 Leases bearing deposits, bank overdrafts and short term highly liquid Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms investments with original maturities of three months or less that of the lease transfer substantially all the risk and rewards of are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are ownership to the lessee.
Leases include hire purchase contracts subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank which have characteristics similar to finance or operating leases.
overdrafts are repayable on demand and can form an integral All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Rentals part of the Groups cash management.
payable under operating leases are charged to the Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the d Put options held by minority interests relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive The purchase price of shares to be acquired under options held to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line by minority shareholders in the Groups subsidiaries are basis over the expected lease term.
calculated by reference to the estimated profitability of the relevant subsidiary at the time of exercise, using a multiple 1.16 Other liabilities based formula.
The net present value of the estimated future Other liabilities are recognised when the Group has legal or payments under these put options is shown as a financial constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is liability.
The corresponding entry is recognised in equity as a possible that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
At the end of each year, Other liabilities are measured at the Directors best estimate of the estimate of the financial liability is reassessed and any the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance change in value is recognised in the Consolidated Income sheet date.
Statement, as part of finance income or expense.
Where the liability is in a foreign currency, any change in the value of the 1.17 Dividends liability resulting from changes in exchange rates is recognised The annual final dividend is not provided for until approved at the in the Consolidated Income Statement.
AGM: interim dividends are charged in the period they are paid.
e Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting 1.18 Share capital and reserves The Group holds derivative financial instruments in the form Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs of forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in currency exposure.
These derivatives are designated as cash equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
also maintains the following reserves: Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all a derivative contract is entered into and subsequent changes foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are the financial statements of foreign businesses.
designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised in equity in the hedging reserve and in Other b Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the Comprehensive Income and are reclassified to profit or loss on effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair maturity of the derivative.
Changes in the fair value of foreign value of cash flow hedging instruments that are determined currency derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the to be an effective hedge.
criteria for hedge accounting in accordance with IAS39 are recognised immediately in the Consolidated Income Statement.
c Retained earnings reserve The retained earnings reserve comprises total cumulative recognised income and expense The Group documents, at the inception of the transaction, the attributable to shareholders.
Bonus issues of share capital relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, and dividends to shareholders are also charged directly to as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for this reserve.
In addition the cost of acquiring shares in the undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also Company and the liability to provide those shares to documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an employees, is accounted for in this reserve.
ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of hedged items.
No derivative contracts have been designated as fair value hedges or net investment hedges.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Group Accounting Policies continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 1.18 Share capital and reserves continued 1.21 Accounting estimates and judgements Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity The preparation of the Groups consolidated financial share capital and holds that share either directly as treasury statements does not require management to make any critical shares or indirectly within an ESOP trust, the consideration paid, accounting judgements, assumptions or estimates with regard including any directly attributable incremental costs net of toassets or liabilities that could potentially have a material income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the adjustment to the carrying amount of assets or liabilities in Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, thenext 12 months.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly Management however are required to make judgements, attributable incremental transaction costs and the related assumptions and estimates relating to certain assets and income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the liabilities that could potentially have a material impact over Companys equity holders.
These shares are used to satisfy the longer term.
These relate to: share awards granted to Directors under the Groups share schemes.
The Trustee purchases the Companys shares on the 1.21.1 Acquisition accounting and goodwill impairment open market using loans made by the Company or a subsidiary When the Group makes an acquisition it recognises the of the Company.
identifiable assets and liabilities, including intangible assets, at fair value with the difference between the fair value of net 1.19 Related parties assets acquired and the fair value of consideration paid There are no related party transactions other than with the key comprising goodwill.
Acquisitions are accounted for using the management that are required to be disclosed in accordance acquisition method as described in note 1.3 and 1.10 of Group with IAS24.
Details of their remuneration are given in note 5 to Accounting Policies the key assumptions and estimates used the consolidated financial statements.
to determine the valuation of intangible assets acquired are the forecast cash flows, the discount rate and customer supplier 1.20 Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments attrition.
Customer and supplier relationships are valued using to published standards not yet effective a discounted cash flow model.
Acquisitions often comprise an The IASB has published a number of new Standards, element of deferred consideration and may include a minority amendments and interpretations to existing Standards which interest, which are subject to put options.
These put options are not yet effective, but will be mandatory for the Groups are valued at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Deferred accounting periods beginning on or after 1 October 2017. consideration is fair valued based on the Directors estimate Set out below are those which are considered most relevant of future performance of the acquired entity.
to the Group: The Groups growth strategy is to grow through acquisitions.
IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers: IFRS15 is This results in material amounts of goodwill and intangible effective for the Group for the year ended 30 September assets principally customer and supplier relationships being 2019.
The Group reviewed its revenue recognition policies recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
and concluded that for substantially all of its sales to As set out in note 1.11 of Group Accounting Policies, goodwill customers the performance obligation is the delivery of is tested annually to determine if there is any indication of goods and it is therefore appropriate to recognise revenue impairment.
Assumptions are then used to determine the at a single point of time, on delivery of goods, which is recoverable amount of each CGU, principally based on the consistent with the current accounting policies.
The review present value of estimated future cash flows to derive the has identified specific contracts within Life Sciences where value in use to the Group of the capitalised goodwill.
goods and services are sold together which in aggregate The key estimates made and assumptions used in performing account for less than 5% of Group consolidated revenues.
impairment testing this year are set out in note 10 to the The impact of the application of IFRS15 to these contracts consolidated financial statements.
is unlikely to have a material impact on Group revenues or adjusted operating profit.
1.21.2 Inventory provisions IFRS16 Leases: IFRS16 is effective for the Group for the Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable year ended 30 September 2020 and the Group has begun an value as set out in note 1.12 of Group Accounting Policies.
impact assessment on the consolidated financial statements In the course of normal trading activities, judgement is used to in 2018. establish the net realisable value of inventory and impairment charges are made for obsolete or slow-moving inventories and The following new or amended standards are not expected against excess inventories.
to have a significant impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements: The decision to make an impairment charge is based on a number of factors including managements assessment of the IAS12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised current trading environment, aged profiles and historical usage Losses: and and other matters which are relevant at the time the IFRS9 Financial Instruments.
consolidated financial statements are approved.
1.21.3 Defined benefit pension Defined benefit pensions are accounted for as set out in note 1.6 of Group Accounting Policies.
Determining the value of the future defined benefit obligation requires estimates in respect of the assumptions used to calculate present values.
These include discount rate, future mortality and inflation.
Management makes these estimates in consultation with an independent actuary.
Details of the estimates and key sensitivities made in calculating the defined benefit obligation at 30 September 2017 are set out in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
92 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017
