Other information Glossary of terms Property Dividend cover Loan to value LTV CHARM Earnings per share divided by dividends Ratio of net debt to the market value The CHARM portfolio is a financial interest per share.
of properties and property related assets.
in equity mortgages held by the Church of Earnings per share EPS Operating profit before England Pensions Board as mortgagee.
Profit after tax attributable to valuation movements OPBVM Investment value shareholders divided by the weighted Operating profit before valuation or market value average number of shares in issue in movements and non-recurring items.
Open market value of a property the year.
subjectto relevant tenancy in place.
Return on capital employed EPRA NAV ROCE Private rented sector PRS Shareholders funds adjusted for the Operating profit after net valuation Housing tenure classification that relates market value of property assets held as movements on investment properties to residential units owned by the private stock but before deduction for deferred plus the share of results from joint sector to provide rental accommodation.
tax on property revaluations and before ventures associates plus the movement This excludes units owned by government adjustments for the fair value of derivatives.
on the uplift of trading stock to market authorities and housing associations.
value as a percentage of opening EPRA NNNAV gross capital defined as investment Regulated tenancy EPRA NAV adjusted for deferred tax property, financial interest in property Tenancy regulated under the 1977 and those contingent tax liabilities which assets CHARM, investment in joint RentAct.
Rent usually sub-market is would accrue if assets were sold at market venture associates and trading stock setby the rent officer and the tenant value and for the fair value of long-term at market value.
Return on shareholder equity Tenanted residential EU IFRS ROSE Activity covering the acquisition, renting International Financial Reporting Growth in NNNAV in the year plus the out and subsequent sale usually on Standards, as adopted by the EU, dividend per share relating to each year vacancy of residential units subject mandatory for UK-listed companies for as a percentage of opening NNNAV.
accounting periods ending on or after 31December 2005.
Swap Vacant possession VP value Financial instrument to protect Open market value of a property Gearing againstinterest rate movements.
The ratio of borrowings, net of cash, to market net asset value.
Total shareholder return TSR Financial Return attributable to shareholders on Goodwill Adjusted earnings the basis of share price growth with On acquisition of a company, the Profit before tax before valuation dividends reinvested.
difference between the fair value of movements and non-recurring items.
net assets acquired and the fair value Weighted average cost Cap of the purchase price paid.
of capital WACC Financial instrument which, in return The weighted average cost of funding the Hedging fora fee, guarantees an upper limit Groups activities through a combination The use of financial instruments to fortheinterest rate on a loan.
of shareholders funds and debt.
Contingent tax The amount of tax that would be payable Interest cover should trading property be sold at the Profit on ordinary activities before interest market value shown in the market value and tax divided by net interest payable.
co. uk E14 5JP Numis Securities Limited 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LT Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 This report has been printed on paper which supports the FSC Forest Stewardship Council chain of custody environmental sustainment programme.
The material used throughout the report is biodegradable, fully recyclable and elemental chlorine free.
Both the paper mill andprinter involved in the production support the growth of responsible forest management and are both accredited to ISO 14001 which specifies a process for continuous environmental improvement.
Vegetablebased inks were used throughout the production process.
Consultancy, design and production www.
co. uk Design and production www.
co. uk Waterloo Estate, Waterloo Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate addresses Newcastle Citygate St James Boulevard Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4JE Tel: 0191 261 1819 London 1 London Bridge 3rd Floor East London SE1 9BG Tel: 020 7795 4700 Birmingham The Circle Harborne Birmingham B17 9DY Manchester St Johns House Barrington Road Altrincham Cheshire WA14 1TJ www.
