Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Forward-looking statements The information in this document may include forward looking statements, which are based on assumptions, expectations, valuations, targets, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events.
These can be identified by the use of words such as expects, aims, targets, seeks, anticipates, plans, intends, prospects outlooks, projects, believes, estimates, potential, possible, and similar words or phrases.
These forward looking statements, as well as those included in any other material discussed at any presentation, are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about the Group and its securities, investments and the environment in which it operates, including, among other things, the development of its business and strategy, trends in its operating industry, changes to customer behaviours and covenant, macroeconomic and or geopolitical factors, changes to its board and or employee composition, exposures to terrorist activity, IT system failures, cyber-crime, fraud and pension scheme liabilities, changes to law and or the policies and practices of the BoE, the FCA and or other regulatory bodies, inflation, deflation, interest rates, exchange rates, changes in the liquidity, capital, funding and or asset position and or credit ratings of the Group, the repercussions of the UKs referendum vote to leave the European Union, and future capital expenditures and acquisitions.
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events in the forward looking statements may not occur.
Forward looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
Other events not taken into account may occur and may significantly affect the analysis of the forward looking statements.
No member of the Group or their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, advisers or affiliates gives any assurance that any such projections or estimates will be realised or that actual returns or other results will not be materially lower than those set out in this document and or discussed at any presentation.
All forward looking statements should be viewed as hypothetical.
No representation or warranty is made that any forward looking statement will come to pass.
No member of the Group or their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, advisers or affiliates undertakes any obligation to update or revise any such forward looking statement following the publication of this document nor accepts any responsibility, liability or duty of care whatsoever for whether in contract, tort or otherwise or makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the truth, fullness, fairness, merchantability, accuracy, sufficiency or completeness of, the information in this document.
The information, statements and opinions contained in this document do not constitute a public offer under any applicable legislation or an offer to sell or solicitation of any offer to buy any securities or financial instruments or any advice or recommendation with respect to such securities or other financial instruments.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 263 264 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The paper used for this report is produced using 100% virgin wood fibre from well-managed forests.
The pulp is bleached using an Elementary Chlorine Free ECF process and the mill has TM both FSC and PEFC certification.
Designed by FleishmanHillard Fishburn fhflondon.
co. uk ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 A DIFFERENT WAY OF BANKING WE ARE PROUD TO HAVE BEEN SERVING OUR CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES FOR OVER 175 YEARS CYBG PLC Registered number 09595911 England and Wales ARBN 609 948 281 Australia www.
com A DIFFE REN T WAY OF BANKING Head Ofce: London Ofce: Registered Ofce: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 30 St. Vincent Place Floor 15, The Leadenhall Building 20 Merrion Way Glasgow 122 Leadenhall Street Leeds, West Yorkshire G1 2HL London EC3V 4AB LS2 8NZ
