Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Glossary Term Definition Additional Tier 1 securities AT1 Securities that are considered additional Tier 1 capital in the context of CRD IV.
Arrears A customer is in arrears when they fail to adhere to their contractual payment obligations resulting in an outstanding loan that is unpaid or overdue.
Average assets Represents the average of assets over the year adjusted for any disposed operations.
B The Groups digital application suite, offering Retail customers money management capabilities across Web, Android and Apple platforms.
Bank levy Applicable to certain UK financial institutions and UK operations of foreign banks from 1 January 2011.
The amount due is based on a percentage of the chargeable equity and liabilities for each applicable entity as at the balance sheet date.
Bank surcharge Introduced by the Finance Act No2 2015 for the Groups banking entity from 1 January 2016 and is an 8% charge on taxable profits over 25m before the offset of brought forward losses or Group relief.
Basel II The capital adequacy framework issued by the BCBS in June 2006 defining how firms should calculate their regulatory capital requirements.
Basel III Reforms issued by the BCBS in December 2010 to strengthen global capital and liquidity rules with the goal of promoting a more resilient banking sector.
In Europe the new requirements were implemented by CRD IV, on a phased basis from 1 January 2014 with full implementation by 1 January 2019.
Basis points bps One hundredth of a percent 0.01% : meaning that 100 basis points is equal to 1%.
This term is commonly used in describing interest rate movements.
Board Refers to the CYBG PLC Board or the Clydesdale Bank PLC Board as appropriate.
Capped Indemnity The indemnity from NAB in favour of CYBG PLC in respect of certain qualifying conduct costs incurred by CYBG Group, which is capped at the Capped Indemnity Amount, subject to the Loss Sharing Arrangement, under the terms of the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Capped Indemnity Amount An amount equal to 1.58bn less any Pre Covered provision amount.
Carrying value also referred to as carrying The value of an asset or a liability in the balance sheet based on either amortised cost or amount fair value principles.
Collateral The assets of a borrower that are used as security against a loan facility.
Collateral Account A cash deposit with the BoE in an amount equal to the Unutilised Indemnity Amount from time to time used to collateralise certain obligations of NAB under the Capped Indemnity.
Collective impairment provision Impairment assessment on a collective basis for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant and to cover losses which have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment.
Commercial paper An unsecured promissory note issued to finance short-term credit requirements.
These instruments have a specified maturity date and stipulate the face amount to be paid to the investor on that date.
Common Equity Tier 1 capital The highest quality form of regulatory capital that comprises total shareholders equity and CET1 related non-controlling interests, less goodwill and intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments.
Conduct Indemnity Deed The deed between NAB and CYBG PLC setting out the terms of: The Capped Indemnity: and Certain arrangements for the treatment and management of certain Conduct Matters.
Conduct Matters In the context of the Conduct Indemnity Deed, conduct issues relating to PPI, standalone IRHP, voluntary scope TBLs and FRTBLs and other conduct matters in the period prior to the demerger date whether or not known at the demerger date.
Conduct risk The risk of treating customers unfairly and or delivering inappropriate outcomes resulting in customer detriment, regulatory fines, compensation, redress costs and reputational damage.
Contractual maturities The date on which the final payment of any financial instrument is due to be paid or received, at which point all the remaining outstanding principal and interest have been repaid in full.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 253 Additional information Glossary Term Definition Counterparty The other party that participates in a financial transaction, with every transaction requiring a counterparty in order for the transaction to complete.
Covered bonds A corporate bond with primary recourse to the institution and secondary recourse to a pool of assets that act as security for the bonds on issuer default.
Covered bonds remain on the issuers balance sheet and are a source of term funding for the Group.
CRD IV European legislation to implement Basel III.
It replaces earlier European capital requirements directives with a revised package consisting of a new Capital Requirements Directive and a new Capital Requirements Regulation.
CRD IV sets out capital and liquidity requirements for European banks and harmonises the European framework for bank supervision.
CRD V A set of proposals issued by the European Commission including amendments of among other things the existing Capital Requirements Directive and Capital Requirements Regulation.
Credit risk adjustment credit An adjustment to the valuation of financial instruments held at fair value to reflect the valuation adjustment creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Customer deposits Money deposited by individuals and corporate entities that are not credit institutions, and can be either interest bearing, non-interest bearing or term deposits.
Default A customer is in default when either they are more than 90 days past due on a credit obligation to the Group, or are considered unlikely to pay their credit obligations in full without recourse to actions such as realisation of security if held.
Demerger The demerger of CYBG Group from NAB pursuant to which all of the issued share capital of CYBI Limited was transferred to CYBG PLC by NAB in consideration for the issue and transfer of CYBG shares to NAB in part for the benefit of NAB which NAB subsequently sold pursuant to the IPO and in part for the benefit of NAB shareholders under a scheme of arrangement.
Demerger date 8 February 2016 Derivative A financial instrument that is a contract or agreement whose value is related to the value of an underlying instrument, reference rate or index.
Earnings at risk EaR A measure of the quantity by which net interest income might change in the event of an adverse change in interest rates.
Effective interest rate method The method used to measure the carrying value of certain financial instruments which amortises the relevant fees over the expected life of the instrument.
Effective tax rate The tax charge in the statutory income statement as a percentage of the statutory profit before tax.
Encumbered assets Assets that have been pledged as security, collateral or legally ring fenced in some other way which prevents those assets being transferred, pledged, sold or otherwise disposed.
Exposure A claim, contingent claim or position which carries a risk of financial loss.
Fair value The price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal or most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Fair value adjustment An adjustment to the fair value of a financial instrument which is determined using a valuation technique Level 2 and Level 3 to include additional factors that would be considered by a market participant that are not incorporated within the valuation model.
Financial Ombudsman Service FOS An independent body set up by the UK Parliament to resolve individual complaints between financial businesses and their customers.
Financial Services Compensation The UKs compensation fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services Scheme FSCS firms and is funded by the financial services industry.
The FSCS may pay compensation if a firm is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
This is usually because it has stopped trading or has been declared in default.
FINREP A standardised Financial Reporting framework mandated by the EBA.
Its aim is to establish a single rule book to ensure a robust and uniform regulatory framework.
254 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Term Definition Forbearance The term generally applied to the facilities provided or changes to facilities provided to assist borrowers, both retail and SME, who are experiencing, or are about to experience, a period of financial stress.
Forborne non-performing loans Loans to which forbearance measures have been granted and which are more than 90 DPD, or where the debtor is assessed as unlikely to pay its credit obligations in full without realisation of collateral, regardless of the existence of any past-due amount or of the number of DPD.
Forborne performing loans Loans to which forbearance measures have been granted and which are up to 90 DPD and do not otherwise meet the criteria of forborne non-performing loans.
Funding risk A form of liquidity risk arising when the liquidity needed to fund illiquid asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected terms and when required.
Group CYBG and its controlled entities.
Hedge ineffectiveness Represents the extent to which the income statement is impacted by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedging instruments not being fully offset by changes in fair value or cash flows of hedged items.
Housing lending Mortgages secured by residential properties as collateral.
iB The Groups IT digital platform, built on an open architecture framework providing integration and connectivity for our customer systems, applications and technology partners.
IFRS 9 The new financial instrument accounting standard which is applicable for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, which the Group will adopt from 1 October 2018.
Impaired loans Loans in arrears with insufficient security to cover principal and arrears of interest revenue or where there is sufficient doubt about the ultimate collectability of principal and interest.
Impairment allowances A provision held on the balance sheet to recognise that a loan is impaired.
This can be calculated at either the individual or collective level.
Impairment losses Where an assets recoverable amount is less than its carrying value and the difference is recognised in the income statement with the carrying value of the asset reduced by creating an impairment allowance.
This can be assessed at either the individual or collective level.
Interest rate hedging products This incorporates: i standalone hedging products identified in the Financial Services IRHP Authority FSA 2012 notice: ii the voluntary inclusion of certain of the Groups more complex tailored business loan TBL products: and iii the Groups secondary review of all fixed-rate tailored business loans FRTBLs complaints which were not in scope for the FSA notice.
Internal Capital Adequacy The Groups assessment of the levels of capital that it needs to hold through an Assessment Process ICAAP examination of its risk profile from regulatory and economic capital viewpoints.
Internal Liquidity Adequacy The Groups assessment and management of balance sheet risks relating to funding Assessment Process ILAAP and liquidity.
Internal ratings-based approach A method of calculating credit risk capital requirements using internal, rather than IRB supervisory, estimates of risk parameters.
Investment grade The highest possible range of credit ratings, from AAA to BBB, as measured by external credit rating agencies.
Jaws The net difference between movements in total income and underlying costs for the period expressed as a percentage.
Level 1 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from unadjusted quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Level 2 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets and financial instruments valued using models where all significant inputs are observable.
Level 3 fair value measurements Financial instruments whose fair value is derived from valuation techniques where one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 255 Additional information Glossary Term Definition Listing Rules Regulations applicable to any company listed on a United Kingdom stock exchange, subject to the oversight of the UK Listing Authority UKLA.
The Listing Rules set out mandatory standards for any company wishing to list its shares or securities for sale to the public.
Loan to value ratio LTV A ratio that expresses the amount of a loan as a percentage of the value of the property on which it is secured.
Loss Share The percentage of a provision raised or an increase in a provision which CYBG PLC will be responsible for under the Conduct Indemnity Deed.
Fixed at 9.7% at the demerger date.
Loss Sharing Arrangement The arrangement relating to the Capped Indemnity pursuant to which CYBG PLC will be responsible for the Loss Share.
Medium Term Notes Debt instruments issued by corporates, including financial institutions, across a range of maturities.
Minimum requirement for own funds and MREL is a minimum requirement for institutions to maintain equity and eligible debt eligible liabilities MREL liabilities, to help ensure that when an institution fails the resolution authority can use these financial resources to absorb losses and recapitalise the continuing business.
The BoE set out its approach to setting banks MREL in November 2016.
Net interest income The amount of interest received or receivable on assets, net of interest paid or payable on liabilities.
Net promoter score NPS This is an externally collated customer loyalty metric that measures loyalty between a Provider, who in this context is the Group, and a consumer.
Non-impaired assets 90 DPD Consist of well-secured assets that are more than 90 DPD and portfolio-managed facilities that are not well secured and are between 90 and 180 DPD.
Operational risk The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people strategies and systems or from external events.
Overall Liquidity Adequacy Rule OLAR An FCA and PRA rule that firms must at all times maintain liquidity resources which are adequate both as to amount and quality, to ensure that there is no significant risk that its liabilities cannot be met as they fall due.
This is included in the Groups Risk Appetite and subject to approval by the Board as part of the ILAAP.
Past due loans and advances Loans and advances on which repayments are overdue.
Pension risk The risk that, at any point in time, the available assets to meet pension liabilities are at a value below current and future scheme obligations.
PPI redress Includes PPI customer redress and all associated costs excluding fines.
Pre Covered provision amount The amount of any provision s relating to Conduct Matters raised or increased by CYBG Group between 31 March 2015 and the demerger date in respect of which NAB has provided specific support at any time after 31 March 2015 but before the demerger date.
This was 465m at the demerger date.
Probability of default PD The probability that a customer will default usually within a one-year time horizon : although the time horizon will change on 1 October 2018 in line with IFRS 9 requirements.
Property revaluation Represents revaluation increments and decrements of land and buildings based on Directors valuations to reflect fair value.
Regulatory capital The capital which the Group holds, determined in accordance with rules established by the PRA.
Residential mortgage-backed Securities that represent interests in groups or pools of underlying mortgages.
Investors in securities RMBS these securities have the right to cash received from future mortgage payments interest and principal.
256 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Term Definition Restructured loans A restructured loan is where the terms and conditions of a loan contract have been varied that may involve one or both of the following: the original scheduled repayment contract has been re-written by changing the frequency and pattern of repayments with a lengthening of the final repayment maturity profile on a non-commercial basis e. g. non-market extension of principal repayment period : the Group has previously made a specific provision for the customer and written off the debt in part or converted the debt to a changed obligation in exchange for realisable assets not previously held or a debt for equity swap.
Retail lending Lending to individuals rather than institutions.
This includes both secured and unsecured lending such as personal loans, residential and BTL mortgages, overdrafts and credit card balances.
Ring fencing A new regime of rules which require banks to change the way that they are structured by separating retail banking services from investment and international banking.
This is to ensure the economy and taxpayers are protected in the event of any future financial crises.
Risk appetite The level and types of risk the Group is willing to assume within the boundaries of its risk capacity to achieve its strategic objectives.
Risk-weighted assets RWA On and off balance sheet assets of the Group are allocated a risk weighting based on the amount of capital required to support the asset.
Sale and repurchase agreement A short-term funding agreement that allows a borrower to create a collateralised loan by repo selling a financial asset to a lender.
As part of the agreement, the borrower commits to repurchase the security at a date in the future repaying the proceeds of the loan.
For the counterparty buying the security and agreeing to sell in the future it is a reverse repurchase agreement or a reverse repo.
Scheme of arrangement A scheme of arrangement under Part 5.1 of the Australian Corporations Act between NAB and NAB shareholders to effect the demerger.
Scheme The Groups defined benefit pension scheme, the Yorkshire and Clydesdale Bank Pension Scheme.
Secured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges some asset e. g. property as collateral for the lending.
Securitisation The practice of pooling similar types of contractual debt and packaging the cash flows from the financial asset into securities that can be sold to institutional investors in debt capital markets.
It provides the Group with a source of secured funding than can achieve a reduction in funding costs by offering typically AAA rated securities secured by the underlying financial asset.
SME lending Lending to non-retail customers, including overdrafts, asset and lease financing, term lending, bill acceptances, foreign currency loans, international and trade finance, securitisation and specialised finance.
Sovereign exposures Exposures to governments, ministries, departments of governments, embassies, consulates and exposures on account of cash balances and deposits with central banks.
Specific impairment provision A specific provision relates to a specific loan, and represents the estimated shortfall between the carrying value of the asset and the estimated future cash flows, including the estimated realisable value of securities after meeting securities realisation costs.
Standardised approach In relation to credit risk, a method for calculating credit risk capital requirements using External Credit Assessment Institutions ECAI ratings and supervisory risk weights.
In relation to operational risk, a method of calculating the operational capital requirement by the application of a supervisory defined percentage charge to the gross income of eight specified business lines.
Stress testing The term used to describe techniques where plausible events are considered as vulnerabilities to ascertain how this will impact the own funds or liquidity which a bank holds.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 257 Additional information Glossary Term Definition Structured entities SE An entity created to accomplish a narrow well-defined objective e. g. securitisation of financial assets.
An SE may take the form of a corporation, trust, partnership or unincorporated entity.
SEs are often created with legal arrangements that impose strict limits on the activities of the SE.
May also be referred to as an SPV.
Subordinated debt Liabilities which rank after the claims of other creditors of the issuer in the event of insolvency or liquidation.
Term Funding Scheme TFS Launched in 2016 by the BoE to allow banks and building societies to borrow from the BoE at rates close to base rate.
This is designed to increase lending to businesses by lowering interest rates and increasing access to credit.
Tier 1 capital A measure of a banks financial strength defined by CRD IV.
It captures Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus other Tier 1 securities in issue, subject to deductions.
Tier 2 capital A component of regulatory capital, including qualifying subordinated debt, eligible collective impairment allowances and other Tier 2 securities as defined by CRD IV.
Unaudited unverified Financial information that has not been subject to validation by the Groups external auditor.
Unsecured lending Lending in which the borrower pledges no assets as collateral for the lending such as credit cards and current account overdrafts.
Unutilised Covered Amount The amount of any unutilised accounting provision in the accounts of a member of the Group for matters covered by the Capped Indemnity to the extent indemnified by NAB pursuant to the Capped Indemnity or covered by an amount of a released or reduced provision, interest or tax deduction applied or required to be applied against such provision pursuant to the Conduct Indemnity.
Unutilised Indemnity Amount The amount of support available pursuant to the Capped Indemnity at any given time following the demerger of the Group from NAB.
Value at risk VaR A measure of the loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of adverse movements in market risk factors e. g. rates, prices, volatilities over a specified time horizon and to a given level of confidence.
Write down A reduction in the carrying value of an asset due to impairment or adverse fair value movements.
258 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
