Additional information Measuring financial performance glossary Financial performance measures As highlighted in the Strategic report, the Financial results section and the Risk report, the Group utilises a range of performance 1 measures to assess the Groups performance.
These can be grouped under the following headings: Profitability: Asset quality: and Capital optimisation.
The performance measures used are a combination of statutory, regulatory and alternative performance measures: with the type of performance measure used dependent on the component elements and source of what is being measured.
Statutory performance measures S These are used when the basis of the calculation is derived from a measure that is required under generally accepted accounting principles GAAP.
An example of this would be references to earnings per share.
Regulatory performance measures R These are used when the basis of the calculation is required and specified by the Groups regulators.
Examples of this would be the leverage ratio and the Tier 1 ratio.
Alternative performance measures A These are used when the basis of the calculation is derived from a non-GAAP measure also referred to as APMs.
Examples of this would be the cost to income ratio and the return on tangible equity.
Where a performance measure refers to an underlying metric, the detail on how this measure is arrived at, along with managements reasoning for excluding the item from the Groups current underlying performance rationale, can be found on page 252, directly following this section.
These adjustments to the Groups statutory results made by management are necessary to provide a more meaningful underlying basis.
Descriptions of the performance measures used, including the basis of calculation where appropriate, are set out below: Profitability: Term Type Definition Net interest margin NIM A Net interest income as a percentage of average interest earning assets for a given period.
Net interest income of 844m 2016: 806m is divided by average interest earning assets for a given period of 37,697m 2016: 36,257m which is then adjusted to exclude short-term repos used for liquidity management purposes, amounts received under the Conduct Indemnity and not yet utilised, and any associated income.
As a result of the exclusions noted above, average interest earning assets used as the denominator have reduced by 491m 2016: 698m and the net interest income numerator has reduced by 1.1m 2016: 2.6m.
Underlying return on A Underlying profit after tax less preference share and other distributions as a percentage of tangible equity RoTE average tangible equity total equity less intangible assets and AT1 for a given period.
Underlying cost to income A Underlying total operating expenses as a percentage of underlying total operating income for ratio CIR a given period.
Underlying basic earnings A Underlying profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders including tax relief on any per share EPS distributions made to other equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for a given period.
Statutory RoTE A Statutory profit loss after tax less preference share and non-controlling interest distributions as a percentage of average tangible equity total equity less intangible assets and AT1 for a given period.
Statutory CIR A Statutory total operating expenses as a percentage of total operating income for a given period.
Statutory basic EPS S Statutory profit loss attributable to ordinary equity shareholders including tax relief on any distributions made to other equity holders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for a given period.
1 The term financial performance measure covers all metrics, ratios and percentage calculations used to assess the Groups performance and is interchangeable with similar terminology used in the Annual Report and Accounts such as highlights, key metrics, key performance indicators KPIs and key credit metrics.
250 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Asset quality: Term Type Definition Impairment charge to A Impairment losses on credit exposures plus credit risk adjustment on fair value loans to average customer loans average customer loans defined as loans and advances to customers, other financial assets cost of risk at fair value and due from customers on acceptances.
90 days past due DPD A Customer loans that are either impaired or where the repayment is more than 90 days plus impaired assets to overdue as a percentage of total customer loans at a given date.
customer loans Specific provision to gross A The specific impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of gross impaired impaired assets assets at a given date.
Total provision to customer A Total impairment provision on credit exposures as a percentage of total customer loans loans at a given date.
Indexed loan to value LTV A The mortgage portfolio weighted by balance and indexed using the MIAC Acadametrics of the mortgage indices at a given date.
portfolio Net write offs to customer A Net write offs, including loans at fair value, as a percentage of total customer loans loans at a given date.
Capital optimisation: Term Type Definition Common Equity Tier 1 R CET1 capital divided by RWAs at a given date.
CET1 ratio Tier 1 ratio R Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets.
Total capital ratio R Total capital resources divided by risk-weighted assets at a given date.
Leverage ratio R This is a regulatory standard ratio proposed by the Basel III as a supplementary measure to the risk based capital requirements.
It is intended to constrain the build-up of excess leverage in the banking sector and is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of on and off-balance sheet items plus derivatives.
Modified leverage ratio R The Groups leverage ratio on a modified basis, excluding qualifying central bank claims from the exposure measure in accordance with the policy statement issued by the PRA in October 2017.
Tangible net asset value A Tangible equity as at the period end divided by the closing number of ordinary shares.
TNAV per share Loan to deposit ratio LDR R Customer loans as a percentage of customer deposits at a given date.
Liquidity coverage ratio R Measures the surplus or deficit of the banks high quality liquid assets relative to weighted net LCR stressed cash outflows over a 30 day period.
It assesses whether the bank has sufficient liquid assets to withstand a short-term liquidity stress based on cash outflow assumptions provided by regulators.
Net stable funding ratio R The total amount of available stable funding divided by the total amount of required stable NSFR funding, expressed as a percentage.
The Group monitors the NSFR based on its own interpretations of current guidance available for CRD IV NSFR reporting.
Therefore, the reported NSFR may change over time with regulatory developments.
Due to possible differences in interpretation of the rules, the Groups ratio may not be directly comparable with those of other financial institutions.
The Group no longer reports Return on Assets statutory and underlying basis as a financial performance measure.
Other measures presented, such as RoTE, are considered more relevant and useful for assessing profitability.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 251 Additional information Measuring financial performance glossary Underlying adjustments to the statutory view of performance In arriving at an underlying basis, the effects of certain items that do not promote an understanding of historical or future trends of earnings or cash flows are removed: with management believing this presents a set of results that provide a more reflective year-on-year comparison.
These items are: FY2017 FY2016 Reason for exclusion from the Groups current underlying Item m m Description performance Conduct 58 51 These are customer redress and These costs are historical in nature and are not charges associated costs arising from indicative of the Groups current underlying legacy products and past sales performance.
Restructure 67 45 Restructuring of the business is These costs are significant and are part of the expense currently ongoing with costs Groups strategic objective in simplifying and including redundancy payments, streamlining operations and processes to enhance property vacation costs and productivity.
Consequently, this expense is not associated enablement costs.
viewed as a normal ongoing operating cost to the Group.
Separation 8 11 Costs incurred directly relating to Specific costs relating to the demerger from NAB costs the demerger from NAB.
are historic and not indicative of the Groups current underlying performance.
Net gains on 1 These are the net gains arising on Losses or gains from one-off or infrequent debt the repurchase of subordinated transactions, such as those rising from debt restructuring debt from NAB at the time of the restructures, are not indicative of the Groups demerger.
Impairment 45 This relates to the impairment of Specific costs or gains relating to the demerger of intangible historic development costs and from NAB are historic and not indicative of the assets legacy software developed pre Groups current underlying performance.
includes the impact on the impairment of legacy intangible assets where post demerger, the Group had greater flexibility in its digital direction.
Gain on 20 7 A one-off gain recognised on the Losses or gains from one-off or infrequent disposal of disposal of the Groups VocaLink transactions are not indicative of the Groups VocaLink and Visa Europe Limited share.
Visa share Gain on DB 88 A one-off gain on the closure of Losses or gains from one-off or infrequent pension the defined benefit pension transactions are not indicative of the Groups scheme scheme to future accrual for the current underlying performance.
reforms majority of members 252 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
