Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Shareholder information Electronic communications Annual general meeting AGM CYBG PLC uses its website www.
com as its primary The AGM of the Company will be held at 10am GMT on means of communication with its shareholders provided that Wednesday 31 January 2018 at the offices of Pinsent Masons LLP, the shareholder has agreed or is deemed to have agreed that 30 Crown Place, Earl Street, London, EC2A 4ES, United Kingdom.
communications may be sent or supplied in that manner.
Electronic The Notice of AGM can be found on the CYBG PLC website communications allow shareholders to access information instantly www.
as well as helping the Company reduce its costs and its impact on the environment.
Shareholders who have consented or are Shareholder enquiries deemed to have consented to electronic communications can The Companys share register is maintained by the Companys revoke their consent at any time by contacting the Companys Registrar, Computershare.
Shareholders with queries relating to Registrar, Computershare.
their shareholding should contact Computershare directly using one of the methods below: Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications online via the following links: Registrar Holders of shares on the London Stock Exchange: Computershare UK www.
co. uk ecomms Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Holders of CDIs on the Australian Securities Exchange: Bridgwater Road www.
com au Bristol United Kingdom BS99 6ZZ Corporate website Information on the Company is available at the CYBG PLC website Tel within UK 0370 707 1172 www.
com including: Tel outside UK 44 370 707 1172 Email: www.
co. uk contactus Financial information annual and half-yearly reports as well as Web: www.
co. uk trading updates: Computershare Australia Share price information current trading details and historical Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited charts: Yarra Falls Shareholder information investor presentations and share 452 Johnston Street register profile: Abbotsford VIC 3067 Australia News releases current and historical.
Tel within Australia 1800764308 Unsolicited telephone calls and communication Tel outside Australia 03 9415 4142 Shareholders are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice, Email: www.
com contact offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free reports about Web: www.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target shareholders, offering to sell them what often turns Duplicate shareholder accounts out to be worthless or high risk shares.
These operations are If you receive more than one copy of Company mailings this may commonly known as boiler rooms and the brokers can be very indicate that more than one account is held in your name on the persistent and extremely persuasive.
This happens when the registration details of separate transactions differ slightly.
If you believe more than one account Shareholders are advised to deal with only financial services firms exists in your name you may contact the Companys Registrar, that are authorised by the FCA.
You can check a firm is properly Computershare, to request that the accounts are combined.
authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting There is no charge for this service.
If you do deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if anything goes wrong.
For more detailed information on how you can protect yourself from an investment scam, or to report a scam, go to www.
CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 261 Additional information Shareholder information Shareholder interests as at 30 September 2017 By size of holding No.
