British Empire Trust plc 85 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING This Document is Important and Requires your Immediate Attention rights, in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired: and all unexercised authorities If you are in any doubt about the action to take, you should consult your previously granted to the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares be and stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent are hereby revoked.
professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended without delay.
If you have sold or transferred To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as all of your Ordinary Shares in the capital of British Empire Trust plc the Special Resolutions: Company and, as a result, no longer hold any Ordinary Shares in the Company, please send this document and the accompanying form of 11.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 10 above, the Directors of proxy as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee or to the person the Company be and are hereby generally authorised and empowered through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the purchaser or transferee.
Act to allot equity securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any Notice is hereby given that the One Hundred and Twenty-Eighth Annual securities into, Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the General Meeting of British Empire Trust plc will be held at 11 Cavendish Company Ordinary Shares and the sale of Ordinary Shares held Square, London W1G 0AN at 11.00am on Wednesday, 20 December by the Company in treasury wholly for cash pursuant to any existing 2017 to consider the following business: authority given in accordance with Section 551 of the Act, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this Ordinary Business power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities: 1.
To receive and adopt the financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 30 September 2017 together with the Strategic a in connection with an offer of such securities by way of rights to holders Report and the Reports of the Directors and Auditor.
of Ordinary Shares on the register of members of the Company on a fixed record date in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their 2.
To approve a final ordinary dividend of 10.0p per Ordinary Share.
respective holdings of Ordinary Shares but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient 3.
To elect Calum Thomson as a Director of the Company.
in relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of, or the requirements of, 4.
To re-elect Steven Bates as a Director of the Company.
any territory or any regulatory or governmental body or authority or stock exchange: and 5.
To re-elect Susan Noble as a Director of the Company.
b otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above, equating to 6.
To re-elect Nigel Rich as a Director of the Company.
a maximum of 5,778,492 Ordinary Shares being approximately 5% of the equity share capital in issue as at 9 November 2017, 7.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditor.
and the authority hereby granted shall expire on the date which is 8.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, Auditors remuneration.
the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement 9.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after Implementation Report for the year ended 30 September 2017. such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities and sell Treasury Shares in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as Special Business if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution as an Ordinary Resolution: 10.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all of the powers of the Company to allot Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into Ordinary Shares in the Company up to a maximum of 38,523,282 Ordinary Shares provided that such authority shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, save that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require Ordinary Shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after such expiry and the Directors may allot Ordinary Shares, or grant such 86 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 12.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares either for cancellation or to hold as Treasury Shares within the meaning of Section 724 of the Act provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 17,323,920: b the Directors be authorised to determine at their discretion that any Ordinary Shares purchased be cancelled or held by the Company as Treasury Shares: c the minimum price which may be paid for a share shall be 10p exclusive of associated expenses : d the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share shall be the higher of: i 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the relevant share is contracted to be purchased exclusive of associated expenses : and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: and e unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority hereby conferred shall expire on the date which is 15 months after the date of the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company save that the Company may prior to such expiry enter into a contract or arrangement to purchase Ordinary Shares under this authority which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the expiry of this authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary Shares pursuant to any such contract or arrangement as if the authority hereby conferred had not expired.
THAT the articles of association produced to the meeting and initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the new articles of association of the Company in substitution for, and to the exclusion of, the existing articles of association with effect from the conclusion of the meeting.
By Order of the Board Link Company Matters Limited Corporate Secretary Registered Office: Beaufort House 51 New North Road Exeter, Devon EX4 4EP 10 November 2017 British Empire Trust plc 87 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Investment Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notes 4.
Appointment of Proxy by Joint Shareholders 1.
Attending the AGM in Person In the case of joint shareholders, where more than one of the joint If you wish to attend the AGM in person, you should sign the attendance shareholders purports to appoint one or more proxies, only the purported card enclosed with this document and hand it to the Companys Registrars appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint shareholders appear in the Companys register of members in respect 2.
Appointment of Proxy of the joint shareholding, with the first named being the most senior.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
Nominated Persons A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the be a shareholder of the Company.
shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
Appointment of Proxy Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
Where two or more valid the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in relation to the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment replacing and revoking the other or others.
If the Company is unable to of proxies does not apply to Nominated Persons as such rights can only determine which is last sent, the one which is last received shall be so be exercised by registered shareholders of the Company.
If the Company is unable to determine either which is last sent or which is last received, none of such appointments shall be treated as valid 6.
Entitlement to Attend and Vote in respect of that share.
The termination of the authority of a person to act To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the as proxy must be notified to the Company in writing.
determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.30pm To be valid, any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must on Monday, 18 December 2017 or, in the event of any adjournment, be received by post or during normal business hours only by hand 6.30pm on the date which is two business days before the time of the at the Companys Registrars, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA by 11.00am on Monday, deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to 18 December 2017. attend and vote at the meeting.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any 7.
Issued Share Capital and Total Voting Rights CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not As at 9 November 2017, the Companys issued share capital consisted prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she of 129,526,165 Ordinary Shares, carrying one vote each, of which wishes to do so.
If you require additional proxy forms, please contact 13,956,317 were in treasury.
Therefore, the voting rights in the Company as the Registrars helpline on 0371 384 2490 44 121 415 7047 from outside at 9 November 2017 equate to a total of 115,569,848 votes.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
CREST Members CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the Alternatively, you may, if you wish, register the appointment of a proxy CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the electronically by logging on to www.
To use this service procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members you will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who printed on the accompanying form of proxy.
Full details of the procedure have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor are given on the website.
or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy electronically must be made by 11.00am on Monday, 18 December 2017.
88 British Empire Trust plc Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information a statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual available it must forward the statement to the Companys Auditor not later than the via www.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so Company has been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by 11.00am on Monday, 2006 to publish on a website.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the message by the 11.
Questions and Answers CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, b the answer CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
the good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST However, where appropriate, the Chairman may offer to provide an member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal answer to a question after the conclusion of the AGM.
member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such 12.
Information on the Companys Website action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the contents means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares in respect CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at the AGM and, system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST if applicable, any members statements, members resolutions or members Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
matters of business received by the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website www.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities 13.
None of the Directors has a contract of service with the Company.
Copies of the Letters of Appointment of the Directors will be available for You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice inspection at the registered office of the Company during usual business of Meeting or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to hours on any weekday except weekends and public holidays until the communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those date of the meeting and at the place of the meeting for a period of 15 expressly stated.
minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Corporate Members A copy of the current articles of association of the Company and the Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate proposed new articles of association of the Company will be available for representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and public member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
holidays excepted at the offices of Asset Value Investors Limited, 25 Bury To be able to attend and vote at the meeting, corporate representatives Street, London SW1Y 6AL from the date of the Annual Report in which will be required to produce, prior to their entry to the meeting, evidence this notice is included up until the close of the AGM.
Copies will also be satisfactory to the Company of their appointment.
available at 11 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN, being the place of the AGM, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
Rights to Publish Statements under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys financial statements including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual financial statements and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
