CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2017 Certain new standards, amendments and interpretations of existing INTRODUCTION standards have been published that, once they have been endorsed The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the by the European Union, will be mandatory for the Groups Groups financial statements are set out below: accounting period beginning on 1 October 2017 or for later periods.
A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF The Group has not yet adopted these pronouncements and does not PREPARATION currently believe that the adoption of these standards, amendments or interpretations would have a material effect on the consolidated The financial statements have been prepared in accordance results or financial position of the Group unless stated otherwise.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC IFRS 9 Financial instruments removes the multiple classification interpretations as adopted by the European Union that are effective and measurement models for financial assets required by IAS 39 for the year ended 30 September 2017.
They have been prepared and introduces a model that has only two classification categories: under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation amortised cost and fair value.
Classification is driven by the business of certain financial instruments.
model for managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those assets.
The accounting and presentation The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern for financial liabilities and for derecognising financial instruments is basis.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 33. relocated from IAS 39 without any significant changes.
The Group In the current financial year, the Group has adopted: plans to apply IFRS 9 for the year ended 30 September 2019.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative IFRS 9 will impact the classification and measurement of the Groups financial instruments and will require certain additional Amendments to IAS 16 and 38 Clarification of acceptable disclosures.
The primary change relates to provisioning for potential methods of depreciation and amortisation future credit losses on financial assets.
The Group does not consider Amendments to IAS 27 Equity method in separate financial it likely that the impact of these changes will have any major impact statements on the Groups financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for acquisitions of interests IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers which has been of joint operations endorsed by the European Union and subsequent amendments Clarifications to IFRS 15 which have not yet been endorsed by the Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20122014 Cycle European Union set out the requirements for recognising revenue In addition, there have been other minor improvements to existing and costs from contracts with customers.
The Group has made good IFRS and interpretations that are effective for the first time in the progress in training staff and identifying areas of divergence with current financial year which have been adopted by the Group with current practice and, based on this assessment, believes that IFRS no impact on its consolidated results or financial position.
15 will not have a significant impact on the timing and recognition of revenue, operating profit margin or net assets.
It is anticipated that ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, AMENDMENTS there will be some impact on the Group as a result of changes in the AND INTERPRETATIONS TO EXISTING STANDARDS disclosure of some client contract intangibles, variable payments to, THAT ARE NOT YET EFFECTIVE and variable receipts from clients and the accounting for sales The following accounting standards, interpretations and commissions.
The Group plans to apply IFRS 15 for the year ended amendments that are applicable to the Group have been issued by 30 September 2019 with a retrospective approach to the the IASB but had either not been adopted by the European Union or restatement of comparatives.
were not yet effective in the European Union at 30 September 2017.
The Group is currently analysing the impact these standards would IFRS 16 Leases not yet endorsed by the European Union will have on its consolidated results and financial position.
primarily change lease accounting for lessees.
A single model will be applied by lessees to all leases with the option not to recognise IFRS 9 Financial instruments leases of small value or with terms less than 12 months.
It is IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers expected that, as a result of this standard, most operating leases will be included on the balance sheet as an asset, together with the IFRS 16 Leases corresponding lease liability.
A Group-wide project team has been Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure initiative established and is currently assessing the application of this new standard.
Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets forunrealised losses B CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS IN APPLYING ofshare-based payment transactions ACCOUNTING POLICIES The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that consideration affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments liabilities, income and expenses.
These estimates, judgements and assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 20142016 Cycle that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 113 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2017 results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates, judgements D SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material ARRANGEMENTS adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the next SUBSIDIARIES financial year are discussed below.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Company has control.
TAXES Control exists when the Company has power over an entity, exposure to variable returns from its involvement with an entity and the ability The Group has operations in around 50 countries that are subject to to use its power over the entity to affect its returns.
The existence direct and indirect taxes.
The tax position is often not agreed with tax and effect of potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or authorities until sometime after the relevant period end and, if convertible are also considered when assessing control.
subject to a tax audit, may be open for an extended period.
In these circumstances, the recognition of tax liabilities and assets requires ASSOCIATES management estimates and judgement to reflect a variety of factors: Associates are undertakings that are not subsidiaries or joint these include the status of any ongoing tax audits, historical arrangements over which the Group has significant influence and experience, interpretations of tax law and the likelihood can participate in financial and operating policy decisions.
Investments in associated undertakings are accounted for using the The changing regulatory environment affecting all multinationals equity method.
The consolidated income statement includes the increases the estimation uncertainty associated with calculating the Groups share of the profit after tax of the associated undertakings.
This is as a result of amendments to tax law at Investments in associates include goodwill identified on acquisition the national level, increased co-operation between tax authorities and are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus postand greater cross border transparency.
acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in value.
The Group estimates and recognises liabilities of whether additional taxes will be due based on managements interpretation of country JOINT ARRANGEMENTS specific tax law, external advice and the likelihood of settlement.
Joint arrangements are entities in which the Group holds an interest Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the on a long term basis and which are jointly controlled by the Group amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the and other entities under a contractual agreement.
The Group results in the year in which such determination is made.
accounts for its own share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses measured according to the terms of the agreements In addition, calculation and recognition of temporary differences covering the joint operations.
Joint ventures are accounted for using giving rise to deferred tax assets requires estimates and judgements the equity method.
to be made on the extent to which future taxable profits are available against which these temporary differences can be utilised.
ADJUSTMENTS Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements GOODWILL of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used in line with The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any those used by the Group.
impairment in accordance with the accounting policy set out in section M on page 116.
The recoverable amounts of cashACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS generating units CGU have been determined based on value in The results of subsidiaries, associates or joint arrangements use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates acquired or disposed of during the period are included in the and assumptions consistent with the most up to date budgets and consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition plans that have been formally approved by management.
The key or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
assumptions used for the value in use calculations are set out in INTRA-GROUP TRANSACTIONS note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are POST EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS eliminated on consolidation.
Where a Group subsidiary transacts Defined benefit schemes are reappraised annually by independent with a joint operation of the Group, profits or losses are eliminated to actuaries based on actuarial assumptions.
Judgement is required in the extent of the Groups interest in the relevant joint operation.
The principal assumptions used are described in note 20 to the financial statements.
E ACQUISITIONS The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase C BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION method.
The cost of acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the The consolidated financial statements consist of the financial fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities statements of the Company, entities controlled by the Company its incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued.
subsidiaries and the Groups share of interests in joint Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities arrangements and associates made up to 30 September each year.
assumed are recognised at the fair values at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for sale which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
114 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The cost of the acquisition in excess of the Groups interest in the MANAGEMENT FEE CONTRACTS net fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as Revenue from management fee contracts is based on cost incurred goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the and invoiced to the client together with the agreed management fee.
net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised Revenue from management fee contracts is recognised when food directly in the consolidated income statement.
and support services are provided.
F FOREIGN CURRENCY FIXED PRICE CONTRACTS The consolidated financial statements are prepared in sterling, Fixed price contracts include both contracts where: a the client which is the functional currency of the Company.
pays a fixed amount for an agreed range of services provided over afixed period: and b contracts where revenue is a fixed price per In preparing the financial statements of individual companies within meal but varies depending on volume.
Revenue from fixed price the Group, transactions in currencies other than the companies contracts is recognised as services are provided.
functional currency are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary PROFIT AND LOSS CONTRACTS assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are Revenue from profit and loss contracts comprises the total of sales retranslated at the rates on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses made to consumers, typically with little or no subsidy charged to arising on retranslation are included in the consolidated income clients.
Under these contracts, the Group has significant discretion statement for the period, except for where they arise on items taken to manage pricing and costs.
Revenue is recognised when food and directly to other comprehensive income, in which case they are also support services are provided to consumers.
recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
CONTRACT COSTS In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks the Costs incurred during the bidding period, prior to a contract being Group enters into forward currency contracts see section Q for the awarded, are expensed to the income statement.
Costs incurred in Groups accounting policies in respect of derivative financial securing the contract after preferred bidder status has been instruments.
obtained are generally expensed as incurred, unless they fulfil the conditions for capitalisation as an asset.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations expressed in their functional currencies, being the Commissions paid to the sales force on winning or retaining client currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity contracts are charged to the income statement as incurred.
operates are translated at the exchange rates on the balance sheet As part of client contracts, the Group sometimes makes payments to date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average clients, such as concession rentals, vending commissions and profit exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, share.
These payments are accounted for as operating costs are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation when incurred.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
H REBATES AND OTHER AMOUNTS RECEIVED FROM Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a SUPPLIERS foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity Rebates and other amounts received from suppliers include and translated at the closing rate.
agreeddiscounts from suppliers list prices, value and volume related rebates.
G REVENUE AND CONTRACT COSTS Revenue is recognised in the period in which food and support Income from value and volume related rebates is recognised based on actual purchases in the period as a proportion of total purchases services are provided in accordance with the terms of the contractual relationships with third parties.
Revenue represents the made or forecast to be made over the rebate period.
fair value of the consideration received or receivable for food and Rebates received in respect of plant and equipment are deducted support services provided in the normal course of business, from the costs capitalised and are recognised in the consolidated excluding trade discounts, value added tax and similar sales taxes.
income statement in line with depreciation.
Where the consideration receivable under client contracts is Agreed discounts relating to inventories are credited to the income variable, for example where performance bonuses exist, revenue is statement within cost of sales as the goods are consumed.
recognised when it is virtually certain that applicable thresholds will Rebates relating to items purchased, but still held at the balance be met.
sheet date, are deducted from the carrying value of these items so Clients engage us to provide our food and support services at their that the cost of inventories is recorded net of applicable rebates.
Depending on the type of client and service, we are paid either by our client and or directly by the consumer to whom we I BORROWING COSTS have been provided access by our client.
In certain cases, clients Borrowing costs which are directly attributable to the acquisition, engage us to provide food and support services in a single multi construction or production of a qualifying asset are capitalised as service contract.
We recognise revenue for each separate part of the cost of that asset.
performance obligation in respect of food and support services as these are provided.
We typically use three types of client contracts.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 115 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2017 M INTANGIBLE ASSETS J OPERATING PROFIT GOODWILL Operating profit is stated after the share of profit after tax of joint Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of ventures and associates, and before finance costs.
acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable K EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS assets and liabilities of the acquired subsidiary, associate or joint Exceptional items are disclosed and described separately in the arrangement at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested annually consolidated financial statements where it is necessary to do so to for impairment and is carried at cost less any accumulated provide further understanding of the financial performance of the impairment losses.
They are material items of income or expense that have been Goodwill is allocated to CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
A CGU is identified at the lowest aggregation of assets that generate L TAX largely independent cash inflows, and that which is looked at by management for monitoring and managing the business and relates Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is to the total business for a country.
recognised in the consolidated income statement except where it relates to items taken directly to the consolidated statement of If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying comprehensive income or equity, in which case it is recognised in amount, an impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or equity amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other as appropriate.
assets of the unit pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment is immediately recognised in Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively the consolidated income statement and an impairment loss enacted in respect of that period by the balance sheet date.
recognised for goodwill is not subsequently reversed.
Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, On disposal, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of determination of the gain or loss on disposal.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS amounts used for tax purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and profits will be available against which deductible temporary is not included in determining any subsequent gain or loss differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not on disposal.
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost or, if that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
acquired as part of a business combination, are capitalised at fair value as at the date of the acquisition.
Amortisation is charged on a Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary straight line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets.
differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, Internally generated intangible assets are not capitalised.
Intangible and interest in joint arrangements, except where the Group is able to assets are reviewed for impairment annually.
control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the The following rates applied for the Group: foreseeable future.
client contract related intangible assets: the life of the contract The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each computer software: 20% to 33% per annum balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or The typical life of contract related intangibles is two to 20 years.
part of the asset to be recovered.
Client contracts related intangible assets arising on acquisition of a Deferred tax is calculated at the enacted or substantively enacted tax business are recognised at fair value and amortised over the life of rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is the contract, including the renewal period where appropriate.
settled or the asset realised.
Underlying operating profit and underlying earnings per share exclude the amortisation of contract related intangible assets arising Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when on acquisition of a business as it is not considered to be relevant to they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the underlying trading performance of the Group.
the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
116 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BORROWINGS N PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Borrowings are recognised initially at the proceeds received, net of All tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when there are direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Freehold cost: any difference between the proceeds net of direct issue costs land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment and the redemption value is recognised in the consolidated income assets are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and any statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective recognised impairment in value.
interest method, unless included in a fair value hedge.
Depreciation is provided on a straight line basis over the anticipated EQUITY INSTRUMENTS useful lives of the assets.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the The following rates applied for the Group: proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Freehold buildings and long term leasehold property: 2% per DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE annum ACCOUNTING Short term leasehold property: the life of the lease The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward Plant and machinery: 8% to 33% per annum currency contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge the risks associated with changes in foreign exchange rates and interest Fixtures and fittings: 8% to 33% per annum rates.
Such derivative financial instruments are initially measured at When assets are sold, the difference between sales proceeds and fair value on the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at the carrying amount of the assets is dealt with in the consolidated subsequent reporting dates.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies O ASSETS HELD FOR SALE approved by the Board of Directors that provide written principles on Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk sale if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale management strategy.
The Group does not use derivative financial transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is instruments for speculative purposes.
regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable, management The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by is committed to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with in its present condition and the sale is expected to be completed similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is within one year from the date of classification.
These assets are determined by reference to market values for similar instruments.
measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as either fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the P INVENTORIES fair value of a recognised asset or liability: or cash flow hedges where Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
they hedge the exposure to variability in cash flows that is either Cost is calculated using either the weighted average price or the first attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or in, first out method as appropriate to the circumstances.
Net liability or a forecasted transaction: or net investment hedges where realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course they hedge the exposure to foreign currency arising from a net of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Q FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In relation to fair value hedges interest rate swaps which meet the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the conditions for hedge accounting, any gain or loss from remeasuring Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised immediately in the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and consolidated income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, denominated in attributable to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying foreign currencies are translated into sterling at period end exchange amount of the hedged item and recognised in the consolidated rates.
Gains and losses are dealt with through the consolidated income statement.
Where the adjustment is to the carrying amount income statement, unless hedge accounting treatment is available.
of a hedged interest bearing financial instrument, the adjustment is amortised to the net profit and loss such that it is fully amortised INVESTMENTS by maturity.
The Groups available for sale investments are measured at fair value When fair value hedge accounting is discontinued, any adjustment or, where fair value cannot be reliably measured, at cost less impairment.
They are included in non-current assets unless to the carrying amount of the hedged item for the designated risk for interest bearing financial instruments is amortised to profit or loss, management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
with amortisation commencing no later than when the hedged item ceases to be adjusted.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The Groups policy is to convert a proportion of its floating rate debt Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and to fixed rates, using floating to fixed interest rate swaps.
The Group short term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
may designate these as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk whenever the hedge accounting conditions are met.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 117 GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2017 The Group may also designate foreign currency firm commitments Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the as cash flow hedges of foreign currency risk whenever the hedge Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the accounting are met.
minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the The portion of the gain or loss arising from the cash flow hedging balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are instrument that is determined to be an effective hedge is recognised apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease directly in equity and the ineffective portion is recognised in the obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the income statement.
remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged For cash flow hedges of firm commitments which result in the directly to the consolidated income statement.
recognition of an asset or liability, then at the time the asset or Payments made under operating leases are charged to income on liability is recognised, the associated gains or losses that had astraight line basis over the period of the lease.
Any incentives to previously been recognised in equity are recognised in the initial enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight line basis measurement of the acquisition cost and carrying amount of the over the lease term.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the consolidated S PROVISIONS income statement in the same period in which the hedged firm Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation commitment affects the net profit and loss, for example when the as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be future sale occurs.
required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the cost of settling these liabilities and are For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge discounted to present value where the effect is material.
accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the consolidated income statement in the period.
T EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The Group uses foreign currency denominated debt, forward PENSION OBLIGATIONS currency contracts and cross currency swaps to partially hedge The Group operates two types of pension plans: against the change in the sterling value of its foreign currency defined contribution plans where the Group makes contributions denominated net assets due to movements in foreign exchange to a members pension plan but has no further payment rates.
The Group designates these as a hedge of its net investments obligations once the contributions have been paid in foreign operations and recognises the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings in other comprehensive income.
If defined benefit plans which provide pension payments upon the Group uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective retirement to members as defined by the plan rules portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the separately administered pension plans.
The Group has no further income statement.
Exchange differences arising from a monetary payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
item receivable from or payable to a Group foreign operation, the Thecontributions are recognised in current service cost in the settlement of which is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable consolidated income statement when they are due.
Payments made future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign to state managed schemes are treated as payments to defined operation and are recognised directly in equity in the contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the translation reserve.
schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution pension scheme.
Gains and losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled through the consolidated income statement on disposal of For defined benefit plans, the calculation of the defined benefit the foreign operation.
obligation is performed at least once a year by a qualified actuary Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument using the projected unit credit method.
The consolidated balance expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for sheet reflects a net asset or net liability for each defined benefit hedge accounting.
At that point in time, any cumulative gain or loss pension plan.
The liability recognised is the present value of the on the hedging instrument recognised in equity is kept in equity until defined benefit obligation discounted using the yields on high quality the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no corporate bonds less the fair value of plan assets at bid price, if longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised any.
If the fair value of the plan assets exceeds the defined benefit in equity is transferred to the consolidated income statement in obligation, a pension surplus is only recognised if the Group the period.
considers that it has an unconditional right to a refund.
For the UK defined benefit plan, the Group considers that it has an R LEASES unconditional right to a refund of a surplus, assuming the gradual Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the settlement of the plan liabilities over time until all members have left lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the plan.
The trustees cannot unconditionally wind up the plan or the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
use the surplus to enhance member benefits without employer consent.
The Groups judgement is that these trustee rights do not prevent the Group from recognising an unconditional right to a refund and therefore a surplus.
118 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The IASB was considering an amendment to pension accounting SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS IFRIC 14 as published in an exposure draft in June 2015.
The The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain Group will reconsider the implications of any amendment to IFRIC employees.
In accordance with the requirements of IFRS 2 14 and IAS 19 if and when it has been finalised and published.
Net interest income if a plan is in surplus or interest expense if a Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value plan is in deficit is calculated using yields on high quality corporate excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at bonds and recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The fair value determined at the grant date of Acurrent service cost is also recognised which represents the theequity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight expected present value of the defined benefit pension entitlement line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate earned by members in the period.
ofthe shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect ofnon-market based vesting conditions.
Remeasurements, which include gains and losses as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions, the effect of the limit on the plan Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or surplus if any and returns on plan assets other than amounts Black-Scholes pricing models as is most appropriate for each included in net interest are recognised in the consolidated scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise occur.
Remeasurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in restrictions and behavioural considerations.
HOLIDAY PAY OTHER POST EMPLOYMENT OBLIGATIONS Paid holidays and similar entitlements are regarded as an employee Some Group companies provide other post employment benefits.
benefit and are charged to the consolidated income statement as The expected costs of these benefits are accrued over the period the benefits are earned.
An accrual is made at the balance sheet ofemployment using a similar basis to that used for defined benefit date to reflect the fair value of holidays earned but not taken.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 119
