Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the fnancial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare fnancial statements for each fnancial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group fnancial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Company fnancial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102, and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the fnancial statements unless they are satisfed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the proft or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing the fnancial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suffcient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the fnancial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the fnancial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group fnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of fnancial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 42 to 43 confrm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Company: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report together with the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In the case of each Director in offce at the date the Directors Report is approved: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Ralph Findlay Andrew Andrea Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial and Corporate Development Officer 30 November 2017 66 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Five Year Record 68 Independent Auditors Report 69 Group Accounts 75 Notes to the Group Accounts 79 Company Accounts 109 Notes to the Company Accounts 111 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 67 Five Year Record 2013 Restated 2014 2015 2016 2017 53 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks m m m m m Underlying revenue 782.9 787.6 845.5 905.8 992.2 Underlying proft before taxation 86.9 82.9 90.9 97.3 100.1 Non-underlying items 19.4 142.1 59.6 16.5 0.2 Proft loss before taxation 67.5 59.2 31.3 80.8 100.3 Taxation 10.6 8.5 8.0 7.8 15.6 Proft loss after taxation 56.9 50.7 23.3 73.0 84.7 Net assets 841.9 759.0 782.9 752.1 931.4 Earnings loss per ordinary share 10.0p 8.9 p 4.1p 12.7p 14.2p Non-underlying items 2.1p 20.6p 8.7p 1.2p Underlying earnings per ordinary share 12.1p 11.7p 12.8p 13.9p 14.2p Dividend per ordinary share 6.4p 6.7p 7.0p 7.3p 7.5p T axation includes the tax on non-underlying items together with non-underlying credits of 2.4 million in 2016 and 3.1 million in 2013 in respect of the change in corporation tax rate and a nonunderlying credit of 4.1 million in 2016 in respect of the additional tax relief claimed for previous periods following the agreement of the tax treatment of certain items with HM Revenue & Customs.
68 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Marstons PLCs Group fnancial statements and Company fnancial statements the fnancial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2017 and of the Groups proft and cash fows for the 52 week period the period then ended: the Group fnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: the Company fnancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law : and the fnancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group fnancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the fnancial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report, which comprise: the Group and Company Balance Sheets as at 30 September 2017: the Group Income Statement and the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Cash Flow Statement, and the Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the fnancial statements, which include a description of the signifcant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the fnancial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the fnancial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulflled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group or the Company.
Other than those disclosed in note 3 to the fnancial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group or the Company in the period from 2 October 2016 to 30 September 2017.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Overall Group materiality: 5.0 million 2016: 4.9 million, based on 5% of proft before tax and nonunderlying items.
Overall Company materiality: 20.1 million 2016: 18.1 million, based on 1.75% of net assets.
Audit scope Audit performed at the level of the consolidated Group.
Valuation of the estate notes 1, 12 and 18 Group and Company.
Accounting for the acquisition of the beer business of Charles Wells notes 4 and 35 Group.
Disclosure of items as non-underlying notes 1 and 4 Group.
Areas of focus Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 69 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the fnancial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of signifcant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most signifcance in the audit of the fnancial statements of the current period and include the most signifcant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identifed by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the fnancial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identifed by our audit.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter Valuation of the estate notes 1, 12 and 18 Group and Company We reviewed the Directors annual assessment and examined their We focus on the Directors annual assessment of the carrying assumptions therein, utilising internalspecialists to validate the value of land and buildings because properties are a signifcant conclusions reached.
We havetaken into account the impact of any item on the balance sheet and there are complex and subjective changes in macroeconomic conditions, individual pub performance assumptions used in the valuations, including the future expected and recent market transactions and their associated multiples.
performance of pubs and multiples applied.
We found the assumptions adoptedto be appropriate and consistent A full external valuation of the estate was undertaken during with our knowledge of the business.
In FY17 management have undertaken an exercise to identify if there have been any impairment triggers or changes in market conditions, including property based transactions both within the market place and the Marstons estate, which would indicate changes in property valuation.
The absence of any such triggers or changes in market conditions supports the carryingvalue of the Groupsproperty portfolio as at the balance sheet date.
Accounting for the acquisition of the beer business of Charles We evaluated the various aspects of the accounting for the Wells notes 4 and 35 Group acquisition.
We assessed the provisional fair value adjustments In FY17 the Group completed the acquisition of the beer business and the consequent calculation of the residual goodwill arising on of Charles Wells, for a cash consideration of 55 million and an the transaction.
additional working capital adjustment of 36 million.
We tested the brand values calculated by management by Accounting for the acquisition involved judgements in relation to understanding the appropriateness of the methodology used the identifcation and valuation of the assets and liabilities to be and auditing inputs such as actual revenue and margins for each recognised, particularly in respect of the acquired brands.
We evaluated the brand valuation in the context of the rationale for the acquisition and the objectives of the accounting The value of the acquired brands, which was calculated by framework.
We found that the brand valuation was consistent with the management, included estimates about future earnings and application of industry practices and market transactions.
We attended closing inventory counts at two locations, Bedford and Greenford, to confrm the existence of the inventory acquired.
We evaluated the fair value ascribed to the acquired assets and liabilities by challenging managements assessment of the acquired inventory and accounts receivable by reference to Marstons experience in recovering debtors and the margins on other beer brands.
We found these to be reasonable.
70 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Disclosure of items as non-underlying notes 1 and 4 Group We assessed the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policy and whether those items disclosed as non-underlying were consistent with The fnancial statements include certain items which are disclosed the accounting policy and the approach taken in previous accounting as non-underlying such as the results arising from the ongoing periods.
We found the Groups accounting policy to be appropriate and management of the portfolio of pubs subject to disposal in FY14, the classifcation of items to be consistent with the accounting policy.
movements in the fnancial assumptions used in determining the onerous lease provisions, reorganisation, relocation and integration We also considered an appropriate threshold to apply to noncosts principally comprising non-recurring costs incurred in relation underlying items based on the fnancial statement line items that were to the acquisition of the beer business of Charles Wells, movements affected.
For example, certain property related items are considered in the fair value of interest rate swaps, the net interest on the net by management to have a higher threshold for disclosure as nondefned beneft asset liability and the write-off of unamortised underlying.
We concluded that the thresholds adopted are appropriate fnance costs.
Management have included these items as nonin the circumstances.
underlying using the criteria explained in their accounting policy We assessed whether other non-recurring items should have been which is disclosed in note 1 to the fnancial statements.
classifed as non-underlying and discussed this with the Directors and We focused on this area because non-underlying items are not the Audit Committee.
We confrmed that all signifcant items meeting defned by IFRS as adopted by the European Union and it therefore the criteria in the Groups accounting policy had been identifed and requires judgement by the Directors to identify such items.
that the treatment was consistent year on year.
Consistency in identifying and disclosing items as non-underlying is important to maintain comparability of the current period results with previous periods.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the fnancial statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which they operate.
The Group is structured along fourbusiness lines being Destination and Premium, Taverns, Leased and Brewing, supported by Group Services.
The Group fnancial statements are a consolidation of subsidiaries and special purpose entities, principally comprising the Groups operating businesses, property companies, securitisation vehicles, holding companies and an insurance company.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit we considered the consolidated trial balance for the Group as a whole and designed our audit testing for each fnancial statement line item based on the size and nature of the transactions and balances that are aggregated to form that line item and our assessment of the risk of material misstatement.
We used our professional judgement to determine the nature and extent of testing required over each line item in the fnancial statements.
Materiality The scope of our audit was infuenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual fnancial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the fnancial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the fnancial statements as a whole as follows: Group fnancial statements Company fnancial statements Overall materiality 5.0 million 2016: 4.9 million.
How we determined it 5% of proft before tax and non-underlying items.
Rationale for We believe that proft before tax and nonMarstons PLC holds some of the pubs relating to benchmark applied underlying items is the primary measure used by the non-securitised business.
These properties the shareholders in assessing the performance are then occupied by Marstons Trading Limited.
of the Group and is a generally accepted auditing As such it is considered that the net asset balance benchmark.
The exclusion of items classifed as nonis the most appropriate basis upon which to underlying is consistent with previous periods and determine materiality.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 0.2 million and 5.0 million.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identifed during our audit above 0.2 million Group audit 2016: 0.2 million and 0.9 million Company audit 2016: 0.9 million as well as misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 71 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC continued Going concern In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: Reporting obligation Outcome We are required to report if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in We have nothing material to add or to draw attention respect of the Directors statement in the fnancial statements about whether the to.
However, because not all future events or Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a preparing the fnancial statements and the Directors identifcation of any material guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to uncertainties to the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going continue as a going concern.
concern over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the fnancial statements.
We are required to report if the Directors statement relating to going concern in We have nothing to report.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the fnancial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The Directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the fnancial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the fnancial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the fnancial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the fnancial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Corporate Governance Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic Report and Directors Report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Directors Report for the period ended 30 September 2017 is consistent with the fnancial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors Report.
CA06 Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47 about internal controls and risk management systems in relation to fnancial reporting processes and about share capital structures in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the FCA DTR is consistent with the fnancial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in this information.
CA06 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 to 47 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees complies with rules 7.2.
CA06 We have nothing to report arising from our responsibility to report if a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
CA06 72 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The Directors confrmation on page 22 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
The Directors explanation on page 24 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifcations or assumptions.
We have nothing to report having performed a review of the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and understanding of the Group and Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
Listing Rules Other Code Provisions We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report when: The statement given by the Directors, on page 66, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for the members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company obtained in the course of performing our audit.
The section of the Annual Report on pages 50 to 52 describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors statement relating to the Companys compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specifed, under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
Directors Remuneration In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT Responsibilities of the Directors for the fnancial statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the fnancial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfed that they give a true and fair view.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of fnancial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the fnancial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Groups and the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the fnancial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the fnancial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to infuence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these fnancial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the fnancial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 73 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC continued OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specifed by law are not made: or the Company fnancial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Appointment Following the recommendation of the Audit Committee, we were appointed by the members on 27 January 2003 to audit the fnancial statements for the period ended 27 September 2003 and subsequent fnancial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 15 years, covering the periods ended 27 September 2003 to 30 September 2017.
Mark Smith Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham 30 November 2017 74 | Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Additional Information Group Income Statement For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2017 2017 2016 NonNonUnderlying underlying Underlying underlying items items Total items items Total Note m m m m m m Revenue 2, 3, 4 992.2 19.1 1,011.3 905.8 31.5 937.3 Operating expenses 3 817.7 23.2 840.9 733.1 40.3 773.4 Operating proft 2, 4 174.5 4.1 170.4 172.7 8.8 163.9 Finance costs 6 74.8 2.1 76.9 75.9 75.9 Finance income 6 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.7 1.2 Movement in fair value of interest rateswaps 4, 6 6.4 6.4 8.4 8.4 Net fnance costs 4, 6 74.4 4.3 70.1 75.4 7.7 83.1 Proft before taxation 100.1 0.2 100.3 97.3 16.5 80.8 Taxation 4, 7 15.6 15.6 17.4 9.6 7.8 Proft for the period attributable toequityshareholders 84.5 0.2 84.7 79.9 6.9 73.0 Earnings per share: Basic earnings per share 9 14.2p 12.7p Basic underlying earnings per share 9 14.2p 13.9p Diluted earnings per share 9 14.1p 12.6p Diluted underlying earnings per share 9 14.0p 13.8p Group Statement of Comprehensive Income For the 52 weeks ended 30 September 2017 2017 2016 m m Proft for the period 84.7 73.0 Items of other comprehensive income that may subsequently be reclassifed to proft or loss Gains losses arising on cash fow hedges 35.7 50.9 Transfers to the income statement on cash fow hedges 10.7 11.3 Tax on items that may subsequently be reclassifed to proft or loss 7.9 2.0 38.5 37.6 Items of other comprehensive income that will not be reclassifed to proft or loss Remeasurement of retirement benefts 21.8 56.3 Unrealised surplus on revaluation of properties 2.3 2.0 Reversal of past revaluation surplus 0.8 Tax on items that will not be reclassifed to proft or loss 0.2 27.7 23.5 26.6 Other comprehensive income expense for the period 62.0 64.2 Total comprehensive income for the period 146.7 8.8 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 | 75
