STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Summary report bythevaluers To the directors of Shaftesbury PLC Summary report In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a valuation of the Prior to 1st September 2015, there had been no fee-earning instructions bythevaluers various commercial and residential freehold and long leasehold property between DTZ and the Company or the Subsidiary Companies, other than interests as at 30th September 2017 the Valuation Date held by Shaftesbury valuation instructions, for in excess of four years.
Prior to 1st September Carnaby PLC, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Chinatown 2015, Cushman & Wakefield were appointed, until recently, as retail agents PLC, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited, Shaftesbury CL by Shaftesbury Soho Limited and Shaftesbury Carnaby PLC.
C&W are Limited, Shaftesbury West End Limited and Helcon Limited, which are currently appointed as retail agents on behalf of Shaftesbury Chinatown PLC subsidiary companies collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Companies in respect of the property known as Central Cross.
of Shaftesbury PLC the Company, as referred to in our Valuation Reports In accordance with the provisions of VPS3 of the RICS Red Book edition dated 24 November 2017 our Reports.
Our Reports were prepared for current at the Valuation Date, in undertaking our valuations we have lotted accounts purposes.
together certain individual properties to form a separate property each All properties have been subject to external inspections between January referred to as a Property, collectively as the Properties in the manner and October 2017 and a number were subject to internal inspections.
we consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case of an actual sale.
We consider that lotting the properties together on the basis reflected in We confirm that the valuations and Reports have been prepared in our valuations would allow a purchaser to capitalise on the estate management accordance with the RICS Valuation Global Standards which incorporate advantages and opportunities available from such comprehensive ownership.
the International Valuation Standards IVS and the RICS UK Valuation Standards the RICS Red Book edition current at the Valuation Date.
It A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies properties follows that the valuations are compliant with IVS.
We confirm that all valuers and Properties is accounted for by properties and Properties situated in who have contributed to the valuation have complied with the requirements adjacent and or adjoining locations in four specific areas of the West End of of PS 1 of the RICS Red Book.
We confirm that we have sufficient current London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and the adjoining area knowledge of the relevant markets, and the skills and understanding to undertake immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury the valuation competently.
We confirm that Charles Smith has overall Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the western part of Covent responsibility for the valuations and is in a position to provide an objective Garden and a block of properties to the east of the Central Covent Garden and unbiased valuation and is competent to undertake the valuations.
Piazza with its main frontage to Wellington Street.
These areas are all Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken the valuations acting as an dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In our opinion, at the Valuation External Valuer as defined in the RICS Red Book.
Date, this particular unusual confluence of ownership and use characteristics may cause some prospective purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio In accordance with PS 2.5 and UKVS 4, we are required to make certain when combined as having a greater value than the aggregate of the individual disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction and our relationship values of the combined properties and Properties which make up those parts.
with the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
Charles Smith has been the signatory of valuation reports addressed to the Company and the As required by the provisions of the RICS Red Book, in undertaking our Subsidiary Companies since 2013.
Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie valuations, we have valued each property or Property separately, rather Leung Limited C&W has been carrying out this valuation instruction for than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The total the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, for a continuous period valuation figure below is the aggregated value of the separate properties or since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, we also undertake valuations Properties within the various categories of tenure referred to below.
of certain of the properties referred to in our Reports for other purposes, All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed Fair Value in such as secured lending and for inclusion in shareholders circulars.
accordance with VPS4 item 7 of the RICS Red Book.
Under these provisions, On 1st September 2015, DTZ acquired Cushman & Wakefield and the the term Fair Value means the definition adopted by the International combined group now trades under the Cushman & Wakefield brand.
Accounting Standards Board IASB in IFRS 13, namely The price that Cushman & Wakefields financial year end is 31st December.
The proportion would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly of fees payable by the Company to the Cushman & Wakefield group in the transaction between market participants at the measurement date.
financial year to 31st December 2016 was less than 5%.
We anticipate that Under IFRS 13, The Fair Value Hierarchy, the property we have valued is the proportion of fees payable by the Company to the Cushman & Wakefield designated as Level 3 inputs.
Level 3 inputs have been designated as group in the financial year to 31st December 2017 will remain at less than 5%.
Unobservable inputs are used to measure fair value to the extent that relevant observable inputs are not available, thereby allowing for situations in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset or liability at the measurement date.
An entity develops unobservable inputs using the best information available in the circumstances, which might include the entitys own data, taking into account all information about market participant assumptions that is reasonably available IFRS 13:87-89.
144 STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION SUMMARY REPORT BY THE vALUERS Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Our opinion of the Fair Value of each of the properties has been primarily Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates of derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
the Fair Values, as at 30th September 2017, of the freehold and long leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for any tax Companies, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the properties or dated 24 November 2017, were as follows: Properties.
We have made deductions to reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
Freehold Properties 3,133,015,000 A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and details of Three billion, one hundred and thirty-three the sources of information are contained within our Reports.
million and fifteen thousand pounds We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of properties, either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The Company, its managing agents or Long leasehold 285,925,000 professional advisors have provided us with the floor areas of the remaining Properties Two hundred and eighty-five million, nine properties or parts of properties.
hundred and twenty-five thousand pounds We have read some of the leases and related documents provided to us in Total 3,418,940,000 respect of the commercial properties.
Where we have not read leases, we Three billion, four hundred and eighteen have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company, its managing million, nine hundred and forty thousand agents or professional advisors.
pounds Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at 30th September 2017, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees in A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
respect of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, the Company advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The costs will The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, be borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby PLC, Shaftesbury have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total amount of such costs Chinatown PLC, Shaftesbury Soho Limited, Shaftesbury AV Limited, is 11,494,050 and details of the individual sums are included in our Reports.
Shaftesbury CL Limited, Shaftesbury West End Limited and Helcon Limited for the specific purpose to which they refer and are for their use only.
As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual properties Consequently, and in accordance with current practice, no responsibility is to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case of five Properties accepted to any other party in respect of the whole or any part of the which comprise a number of individual properties, the majority of such contents of our Reports or this summary report.
Before our Reports or this properties are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
In summary report, or any part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any order to divide our valuation of these Properties between the categories of document, circular or statement, and before their contents, or any part freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional apportionments thereof, are disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers of value between the freehold elements and the long leasehold elements written approval as to the form and context of such publication or which together comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts arising from disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt, such approval these notional apportionments of value have been included in the figures is required whether or not Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie Leung representing the freehold and long leasehold categories below.
The Limited is referred to by name and whether or not the contents of our amounts arising from the notional apportionments do not themselves Reports or this summary report are combined with others.
represent the Fair Value of the two elements.
The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold basis where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold and have not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold long leasehold Charles Smith MRICS split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
International Partner RICS Registered Valuer For and on behalf of Cushman & Wakefield Debenham Tie Leung Limited 145
