SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION REGISTRAR PUBLISHED INFORMATION All matters relating to the administration of shareholdings in the If you would like to receive ahard copy of this Annual Report and or Company should be directed to Link Asset Services formerly Capita acopy of the Notice of Annual General Meeting in an appropriate Asset Services the registrar, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, alternative format such as large print, Braille or an audio version Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU: telephone within the UK: Freephone on CD, please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 333 300 1568: email: Group PLC, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey enquiries@linkgroup.
Our 2017 Annual Report and the Notice of Meeting areavailable at www.
Shareholders can register online to view their Compass Group PLC shareholding details using the Share Portal, aservice offered by the CASH DIVIDENDS registrar, at www.
Shareholders registering for the The Company normally pays adividend twice each year.
We Share Portal will require their investor code which is shown on share encourage UK resident ordinary shareholders to elect to have their certificates.
The service enables shareholders to: dividends paid directly into their bank or building society account.
This is amore secure method of payment and avoids delays or the check their shareholdings in Compass Group PLC 24 hours aday cheques being lost.
Most ordinary shareholders resident outside gain easy access to arange of shareholder information including theUK can also have any dividends in excess of 10 paid into their indicative valuation and payment instruction details bank account directly via Link Asset Services global payments appoint aproxy to attend general meetings of Compass Group PLC service.
Details and terms and conditions may be viewed at http: ips.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS The Companys Annual Report and all other shareholder DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN DRIP communications can be found on our website at ADRIP service is provided by Link Market Services Trustees www.
The Company can, at shareholders Limited.
The DRIP allows eligible shareholders to use the whole request, send shareholders an email notification each time a of their cash dividend to buy additional shares in the Company, new shareholder report or other shareholder communication is thereby increasing their shareholding.
Additional information, placed on its website.
This enables shareholders to read and or including details of how to sign up, can be obtained from the download the information at their leisure.
com and from Link Market Services Trustees Limited: telephone within the UK: The provision of afacility to communicate with shareholders Freephone 0800 280 2545 and from overseas: 44 333 300 1568: electronically does not discriminate between registered shareholders email: shares@linkgroup.
The facility is available to all registered shareholders on equal terms and participation is made as simple The latest date for receipt of new applications to participate in the as possible.
Please note that it is the shareholders responsibility DRIP in respect of the 2017 final dividend is 5 February 2018. to notify the registrar through www.
com or by post of any change to their email address.
Before electing for electronic SHARE PRICE INFORMATION communication, shareholders should ensure that they have The price of the Companys shares is available on the Companys the appropriate computer capabilities.
The Company takes all website at www.
This is supplied with reasonable precautions to ensure no viruses are present in any a15 minute delay to real time.
communication it sends out, but cannot accept any responsibility SHARE DEALING for loss or damage arising from the opening or use of any email or The Companys shares can be traded through most banks, building attachments from the Company and recommends that shareholders societies, stockbrokers or share shops.
In addition, the Companys subject all messages to virus checking procedures prior to use.
registrar offers online and telephone dealing services to buy or sell Please note that any electronic communication sent by ashareholder Compass Group PLC shares.
The service is only available to private to the Company or the registrar containing acomputer virus will not shareholders aged 18 or over, resident in the UK, EEA, Channel be accepted.
Full details can be obtained from The Companys obligation is satisfied when it transmits an www.
com or by telephoning within the UK: electronic message.
It cannot be held responsible for afailure in Freephone 0800 280 2545. transmission beyond its control.
In the event that the Company becomes aware that an electronic transmission is not successful, SHAREGIFT apaper notification will be sent to the shareholder at their registered ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme, is afree service address.
Shareholders wishing to continue to receive shareholder for shareholders wishing to give shares to charitable causes.
It is information in the traditional paper format should confirm this via particularly useful for those shareholders who may wish to dispose www.
com or write to Link Asset Services.
of asmall quantity of shares where the market value makes it uneconomic to sell on acommission basis.
Further information can be obtained from ShareGifts website at www.
org: telephone within the UK: 020 7930 3737 and from overseas: 44 20 7930 3737: email: help@sharegift.
org or from the registrar.
182 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS WARNING ABOUT SHARE FRAUD BNY Mellon BNY maintains the Companys American Fraudsters use persuasive and high pressure tactics to lure investors Depositary Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be your holding of Compass American Depositary Shares, you worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in should contact BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, return for an upfront payment.
Box 30170, College Station TX 77842-3170, USA or Whilst high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way, shrrelations@.
Further information you will probably lose your money.
can be found on BNYs website at www.
com using the symbol CMPGY and at www.
HOW TO AVOID SHARE FRAUD keep in mind that firms authorised by the Financial Conduct UNSOLICITED MAIL Authority FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an We are legally obliged to make our register of members available to offer to buy or sell shares the public, subject to aproper purpose test.
As aconsequence of do not get into aconversation.
Note the name of the person and this, some shareholders might receive unsolicited mail.
Shareholders firm contacting you and then end the call wishing to limit the amount of such mail should write to the Mailing Preference Service, MPS FREEPOST LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
check the Financial Services Register at www.
uk to see Shareholders can also register online at www.
uk or if the person and firm contacting you are authorised by the FCA request an application form by calling from within the UK: beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, 0845 703 4599 or by email: mps@dma.
copying its website or giving you false contact details use the firms contact details listed on the Register if you want to IDENTITY THEFT call it back Advice on protecting your Compass Group PLC shares: call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact keep all Compass correspondence in asafe place, or destroy details on the Register or if you are told they are out of date correspondence by shredding search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.
uk when changing address, inform the registrar, Link Asset consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm Services.
If aletter from Link Asset Services is received regarding you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or achangeof address and you have not moved, contact the the Financial Services Compensation Scheme registrar immediately think about getting independent financial and professional advice consider having your dividends paid directly into your bank or before you hand over any money building society account.
This will reduce the risk of the cheque being intercepted or lost in the post.
You can complete aRequest remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
for Payment of Interest or Dividends form which are available REPORT ASCAM from and should be returned to the registrar.
Alternatively, register If you are approached by fraudsters, please tell the FCA using the online at www.
com using the Share Portal service.
share fraud reporting form at www.
uk, where you can find If you require further information please contact the registrar out more about investment scams, or call the FCA Consumer on changing your bank or building society account, inform the Helpline on 0800 111 6768. registrar of the details of the new account and respond to any letters Link Asset Services send you about this If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040 or online when buying or selling shares, deal only with brokers registered at www.
in your country of residence or the UK Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 183 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018 18 19 5 8 26 9 21 22 9 30 20 JAN JAN FEB FEB FEB MAY JUN JUN JUL JUL NOV Ex-dividend Record Last day Annual Payment Half year Ex-dividend Record Last day Payment Full year date for date for for DRIP General date for financial date for date for for DRIP date for financial 2017 final 2017 final elections Meeting 2017 final results 2018 2018 elections 2018 results dividend dividend dividend interim interim interim dividend dividend dividend At the date ofdisclosure 2014 RETURN OF CASH AND SHARE CAPITAL 2017 SHAREHOLDER RETURN AND SHARE CAPITAL CONSOLIDATION BASE COST APPORTIONMENT CONSOLIDATION TAX INFORMATION FOR UK TAX PURPOSES On 7 June 2017, shareholders approved areturn of 61.0 pence per Existing Ordinary Share, which resulted in approximately On 11 June 2014, shareholders approved aReturn of Cash of 56 1 billion being returned to shareholders by way of aspecial pence per Existing Ordinary Share, which resulted in approximately dividend the Shareholder Return.
The Shareholder Return was 1 billion being returned through the issue of one Bor CShare to accompanied by aShare Capital Consolidation of the Existing shareholders for each Existing Ordinary Share held at 6.00pm on Ordinary Shares in the ratio of 25 New Ordinary Shares for every 7 July 2014.
The Return of Cash was accompanied by aconsolidation 26Existing Ordinary Shares held at 6.00pm on 26 June 2017. of the Existing Ordinary Shares in the ratio of 16 New Ordinary TheNew Ordinary Shares were admitted to trading on 27 June 2017.
Shares for every 17 Existing Ordinary Shares.
The New Ordinary Shares were admitted to trading on 8 July 2014.
The Band Cshares The New Ordinary Shares arising from the Share Consolidation were not admitted to trading.
resultfrom a reorganisation of the share capital of the Company.
Accordingly, to the extent that a Shareholder received New Ordinary The Base Cost Apportionment is in general terms based on Shares, the Shareholder should not be treated as making a disposal respective market values on the first day after the reorganisation of all or part of the Shareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares onwhich aprice for the New Ordinary Shares was quoted on the by reason of the Share Consolidation being implemented, and the London Stock Exchange.
Based on the New Ordinary Share price of New Ordinary Shares which replaced a Shareholders holding of 1,024.50 pence and the market value of aB Share and of aC Share Existing Ordinary Shares as a result of the Share Consolidation will of 56 pence, and calculated using the ratio of 16 New Ordinary be treated as the same asset acquired at the same time as when Shares and 17 Bor 17 CShares for every 17 Existing Ordinary theShareholders holding of Existing Ordinary Shares was acquired.
Shares previously held, 94.51% of the base cost of the Existing Ordinary Shares is apportioned to the New Ordinary Shares and 5.49% to the Band or CShares.
The information provided is only intended to provide general guidance to UK shareholders and is not intended to be, and should not be construed to be legal or taxation advice to any particular UK shareholder.
It states the position as of 9 July 2014 and 15 May 2017 respectively.
If you are in any doubt as to your tax position, you are recommended to seek tax advice from an independent professional advisor.
This note must be read in conjunction with the Circulars to Shareholders dated 19 May 2014 and 15 May 2017, where certain terms are defined.
184 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
