PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 September 2017 INTRODUCTION D INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation Investments are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
of the separate financial statements of Compass Group PLC the In the opinion of the directors the value of such investments is Company are set out below: not less than shown at the balance sheet date.
Investment income is measured at the fair value of the consideration A ACCOUNTING CONVENTION AND BASIS OF received or receivable.
It represents dividend income which is PREPARATION recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
These financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, except as described in the accounting E FOREIGN CURRENCY policy on financial instruments, Financial Reporting Standard 101 Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies are translated into sterling Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, and in accordance at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Gains and losses with applicable United Kingdom laws.
In preparing these financial arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement the period.
and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes F BORROWINGS amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
These financial cost unless they are part of a fair value hedge accounting statements thus present information about the Company as an relationship.
Borrowings that are part of a fair value hedge individual undertaking not as a Group undertaking.
In the transition accounting relationship are measured at amortised cost plus to FRS 101 in the year ended 30 September 2016, the Company or minus the fair value attributable to the risk being hedged.
applied IFRS 1 whilst ensuring that its assets and liabilities were G DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL measured in compliance with FRS 101.
INSTRUMENTS These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its basis.
This is discussed in the Business Review on page 33. exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative instruments utilised include interest rate swaps, currency B EXEMPTIONS swaps and forward currency contracts.
The Company and Group The Companys financial statements are included in the Compass policy is disclosed in the accounting policies to the consolidated Group PLC consolidated financial statements for the year ended financial statements.
As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the loss account.
Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions and derecognised when it ceases to be party to such provisions.
Such In these financial statements, the Company has applied the assets and liabilities are classified as current if they are expected to exemptions under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: be realised or settled within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
a cash flow statement and related notes If not, they are recognised as non-current.
transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries H DIVIDENDS capital management Dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements as required by IFRS 13 Fair value measurement and IFRS 7 in the year in which they are approved in general meeting by the Financial instrument disclosures Companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised the effect of new but not yet effective IFRSs when paid.
disclosures in respect of compensation of key management I DEFERRED TAX personnel Deferred tax is provided at the anticipated rates on temporary FRS 2 Share based payments in respect of Group settled differences arising from the inclusion of items of income and share-based payments expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax C CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely The Company has not applied any accounting standards for the first than not that they will be recovered.
time in the year ended 30 September 2017.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 177 PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED For the year ended 30 September 2017 J SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of the non market-based vesting conditions.
Fair value is measured using either the binomial distribution or Black-Scholes option pricing models as is most appropriate for each scheme.
The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The issue of share incentives by the Company to employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions.
An addition to the Companys investment in Group undertakings is reported with a corresponding increase in shareholders funds.
For details of the charge see note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
K INTERCOMPANY AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Intercompany and other receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any impairment.
Intercompany and other receivables are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting end date and are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition for the financial asset, the estimated cash flows have been adversely affected.
178 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017
