Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 30 September 2017 88 1.
General information Countryside Properties PLC the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys registered office is Countryside House, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex CM13 3AT.
The Groups principal activities are building new homes and regeneration of public sector land.
The parent company financial statements are on pages 119 to 124.
Initial public offering IPO The Company listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange on 17 February 2016.
Prior to the IPO, there was a reorganisation of the Group, which is described in the 2016 financial statements.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the merger method of accounting because the transaction under which the Company became the holding company of OCM Luxembourg Coppice Midco S. r. l. Midco was a Group reconstruction with no change in the ultimate ownership of the Group.
All the shareholdings in Midco were exchanged via a share-for-share transfer on 11 February 2016.
The Company did not actively trade at the time.
The result of the application of the capital reorganisation is to present the financial statements as if the Company had always owned the Group the financial statements have been presented as a continuation of Midco.
Critical accounting judgements and estimates The preparation of the Groups financial statements under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS requires the Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, expenses and related disclosures.
Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, the Directors have made no individual judgements that have a significant impact on the financial statements, apart from those involving estimates which are described below.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty Estimates and underlying assumptions affecting the financial statements are based on historical experience and other relevant factors and are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
This approach forms the basis of making judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Changes in accounting estimates may be necessary if there are changes in the circumstances on which the estimate was based oras a result of new information.
Such changes are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities are described below.
Estimation of site profitability In order to determine the profit or loss that the Group recognises on its developments and construction contracts in a specific period, the Group allocates the total cost of each development, or construction contract between the proportion completing in the period and the proportion to complete in a future period.
The assessment of the total costs to be incurred requires a degree of estimation due to the long-term nature of the Groups activities and because actual costs are subject to market fluctuations.
Group management has established internal controls to review and ensure the appropriateness of estimates made on an individual development or contract basis.
Carrying value of inventory Inventory generated through the normal course of business is recorded at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
A financial appraisal is prepared and updated monthly for each development, which records an estimate of future revenues and expenditure.
As both future cost and sales prices fluctuate in line with local market conditions, significant adverse variances in either costs or sales prices estimates could lead to an impairment of inventory.
In circumstances where forecast revenues are lower than anticipated expenditure, an inventory provision is made.
This inventory provision may be reversed in future periods when there is evidence of improved selling prices or reduced expenditure forecast on a development.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise loans that have been advanced to homebuyers to assist in their purchase of property under historical shared equity schemes.
The loans are generally secured by a second charge over the property and are either interest free or have interest chargeable from the fifth year onwards.
The loans are held at fair value, which is based on an estimate of the future cash flows from the loans.
The estimate considers the value of the property based upon market conditions, including potential future house price increases, and possible borrower default.
The loans are discounted at an interest rate equivalent to that which would be payable for equivalent loans made against property by a third party.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation These financial statements for the year to 30 September 2017 are those of the Company and all of its subsidiaries.
It has been prepared in accordance with the IFRS as endorsed by the European Union, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis in Sterling and rounded to the nearest 0.1m under the historical cost convention, except for available-for-sale financial assets and share-based payments.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 39.
Thefinancial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described on pages 26 to 29 of the Strategic Report.
Further disclosures regarding borrowings are provided in Note 23.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 89 3.
Accounting policies continued Going concern continued As described in the Viability Statement, the Directors have assessed the prospects and viability of the Company over a three-year period to September 2020.
The Board has performed a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, including those risks that would threaten Countrysides business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Having considered the Groups cash flow forecasts, the Directors are satisfied the Group has sufficient liquidity and covenant headroom to enable the Group to conduct its business and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least the next 12 months.
Accordingly these financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
New standards, amendments and interpretations No new standards, amendments or interpretations effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 October 2016 have had a material impact on the financial statements.
The following amendments to standards and interpretations which will be relevant to the preparation of the Groups financial statements have been issued, but are not effective and have not been early adopted for the financial year beginning 1 October 2017: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, on Classification and Measurement effective 1 October 2018 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement offinancial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through Other Comprehensive Income and fair value through Profit and Loss P&L.
The impact of IFRS 9 is being assessed bymanagement.
The principal change identified is that gains and losses on shared equity loans will no longer be recognised through the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income.
It is not expected that this change will have a material impact on the reported results of the Group, but will introduce an element of volatility in the Groups reported profit as the valuation of the shared equity loan portfolio changes.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 October 2018 deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
During the second half, the Group has undertaken a detailed exercise to determine whether IFRS 15 will have a material impact on the Groups results.
The new standard is effective for the Group for the 2019 financial year commencing on 1 October 2018.
This exercise is substantially complete and we have not yet identified any areas of our business where we will see material changes to the way in which we currently recognise revenue, except as described below.
We are working with advisors and others in the industry to determine the appropriate treatment for the recognition of revenue on land sales to Registered Providers of social housing where separate construction activity is also performed for the Registered Provider.
We understand that this matter is due to be considered by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee at their meeting on 22 November 2017.
We expect to reach a conclusion on this in the first half of the 2018 financial year and will provide further narrative and quantative disclosure on the impact of the standard, if any, in our 2018 Annual Report.
IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 October 2019 addresses the definition of a lease, recognition and measurement of leases and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the leasing activities of both lessees and lessors.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 isthat most operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations.
Whilst managements full impact assessment of the introduction of IFRS 16 is not complete, the Group does not have a significant number of leases which relate principally to office buildings and leased company cars.
The principal impact is likely to be the recognition of additional leasing assets and liabilities and the income statement impact is not expected to be material.
Amendments to IAS 7 and IAS 12 effective 1 October 2018.
These amendments require additional disclosures in the statement of cash flows and recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses respectively.
Amendment to IFRS 2 effective 1 October 2018.
This amendment clarifies the measurement for cash-settled, share-based payments and the accounting for modifications that change an award from cash settled to equity settled.
It also introduces an exception to the principles in IFRS 2 that will require an award to be treated as if it was wholly equity settled, where an employer is obliged to withhold an amount for the employees tax obligations associated with a share-based payment and pay that amount to the tax authority.
Amendment to IFRS 15 effective 1 October 2018.
These amendments comprise clarifications of the guidance on identifying performance obligations, accounting for licences of intellectual property and the principal versus agent assessment gross versus net revenue presentation.
There are no IFRSs or IFRS IC interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group for the financial year beginning 1 October 2017.
The Group has not applied the following amendments to standards which are EU endorsed but not yet effective: Amendments to IFRS 11: Accounting for Acquisitions of Interest in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1: Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 27: Separate Financial Statements on the Equity Method Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014 Cycle The Group is currently considering the impact of these amendments on the Group: however, it is anticipated they will be minimal and effects will principally relate to the amendment of current disclosures.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 90 3.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities which the Group has the power to control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to govern the financial and operating policies so as to obtain economic benefits from its activities.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are consolidated in the financial statements using the acquisition method of accounting from the date on which control is obtained up until the date that control ceases.
Non-controlling interests in the results and equity of subsidiaries are shown separately in the income statement, the statement of changes in equity and the statement of financial position.
Where the accounting policies of a subsidiary or equity-accounted investee do not conform in all material respects to those of the Group, adjustments are made on consolidation to reflect the accounting policies of the Group.
Intragroup transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on transactions between Group companies are eliminated in preparing the financial statements.
Gains arising from transactions with joint arrangements and associate are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Associate and joint ventures An associate is an entity over which the Group is in a position to exercise significant influence but does not exercise control or joint control.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
The Group has applied IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method of accounting, interests in the associate and joint ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the associate or joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate or joint venture.
Unrealised losses arising on transactions between the Group and its associate and joint ventures are eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
The Group funds its associate and joint ventures through a combination of equity investment and shareholder loans.
The Directors review the recoverability ofinvestments and shareholder loans for impairment annually.
Where an investment is held in an associate or joint venture which has net liabilities, the investment is held at Nil and other long-term interests, such as shareholder loans, are reduced by the value equal to the net liabilities, unless it has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of its associate or joint ventures.
Business combinations All acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of an acquisition is the aggregate of the fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued at the date of acquisition.
The consideration transferred includes the fair value of the asset or liability resulting from a deferred and contingent consideration arrangement.
Costs directly relating to an acquisition are expensed to the income statement.
The identified assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
The excess of cost of acquisition over the aggregate fair value of the Groups share of the netidentified assets plus identified intangible assets is recorded as goodwill.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration on acquisition of a subsidiary over the interest in net fair value of the identifiable net assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
If the total consideration transferred is less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
An impairment review is carried out annually or when circumstances arise that may indicate an impairment is likely.
The carrying value of goodwill is compared to its recoverable amount being the higher of its value in use and its fair value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment is charged immediately to the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to each of the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Each unit or group of units to which the goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
Brands The Group carries assets on the balance sheet for brands that have been acquired.
Internally generated brands are not recognised.
Cost is determined at acquisition as being directly attributable cost or, where relevant, by using an appropriate valuation method.
Acquired brands are tested for impairment when a triggering event is identified.
Acquired brands are amortised over a period of 20 years.
Software Computer software that generates an economic benefit of greater than one year is recognised as an intangible asset and carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Computer software costs that are recognised as assets are amortised on a straight line basis over their economic useful life of four years.
These are reviewed for impairment at such time as there is a change in circumstances by which the carrying value may no longer be recoverable.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 91 3.
Accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any applicable impairment losses.
Depreciation is charged at rates to write off the cost of the asset on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
The applicable annual rates are: Plant and machinery 20 per cent to 25 per cent Fixtures and fittings 10 per cent The Group does not own any land or buildings considered to be non-trade related.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: loans and receivables: and available for sale.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the Group transfers substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for those with maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless the investment matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting period.
Equity share scheme loans are classified as available-for-sale financial assets and are initially recorded at fair value net of transaction costs.
Fair value is assessed annually with gains and losses being recognised directly in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income until the loan is repaid.
The loans are discounted at an interest rate equivalent to market rate.
On repayment the accumulated fair value, which had been recognised in the consolidated statement of changes in equity, is recognised in the income statement.
If a loan is determined to be impaired, any impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Increases in the fair value of available-for-sale assets are initially deferred and recorded within reserves.
Reductions in the fair value of available-for-sale assets are recorded as a reduction in reserves, to the extent available, with any additional reduction recorded in the income statement.
The net deferral of increases in fair value are disclosed in the available-for-sale reserve.
Inventories Inventories are normally stated at cost or fair value if acquired as part of a business combination and held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs comprise direct materials, applicable direct labour and those overheads incurred to bring the inventories to their present location and condition.
Net realisable value represents estimated selling price less all estimated costs to sell, including sales and marketing costs.
Land options purchased are initially stated at cost.
Option costs are written off over the remaining life of the option and are also subject to impairment review.
Impairment reviews are performed when circumstances arise which indicate an impairment is likely, such as a refusal of planning permission.
Any impairments are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Land inventory is recognised when the substantial risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group after unconditional exchange of contracts.
Where land is purchased with deferred payment terms, a corresponding liability is recognised within trade and other payables.
Pre-contract expenditure is capitalised where it is probable that a contract will be signed or otherwise is recognised as an expense within costs of sales in the income statement.
Provisions for inventories are made, where appropriate, to reduce the value of inventories and work in progress to their net realisable value.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is established when the carrying value of the receivable exceeds the present value of the future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest rate.
The carrying value of the receivable is reduced and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Ifcollection is expected in one year or less, receivables are classified as current assets.
If not, they are classified as non-current assets.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and other short-term deposits held by the Group with maturities of three months orless.
Bank overdrafts are classified within current liabilities.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 92 3.
Accounting policies continued Trade payables Trade payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated initially at their fair value and subsequently amortised cost.
Where land is purchased on deferred settlement terms the land and associated liability are discounted to their fair value.
The discount to fair value is amortised over the period of the credit term and charged to finance costs using the effective interest rate method.
Changes in estimates of the final payment due are capitalised into inventory and, in due course, to cost of sales in the income statement.
Trade payables also include liabilities in respect of land overage where the Group is committed to make contractual payments to land vendors related to the performance of the development in the future.
Land overage is estimated based on expected future cash flows in relation to relevant developments and, where payment will take place in more than one year, is discounted.
Deposits received from customers relating to sales of new properties are classified within current trade payables.
Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less.
If not, they are classified as non-current liabilities.
Borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded initially at their fair value and bank loans are reported net of direct transaction costs to the extent that borrowings are available for offset.
Such instruments are subsequently carried at their amortised cost and finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption, are amortised over the term of the instrument using the effective interest rate method.
The excess ofunamortised borrowing costs is disclosed within prepayments.
Bank loans are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the date of the statement of financial position.
Overdrafts are classified as current liabilities.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal obligation as a result of a past event which it is probable will result in an outflow of economic benefits that can be reliably estimated.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is discounted at the pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions for onerous leases are recognised when the foreseeable net cash outflows on alease exceed the benefits derived from the lease which has more than one year before expiring or option to exercise a break.
Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in share premium as a deduction from the proceeds.
Where any Group company holds shares in the Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right tooffset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of applicable value-added tax, Stamp Duty Land Tax, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue and profit are recognised as set out below.
Private housing Revenue is recognised in the income statement on legal completion at the fair value of the consideration received.
Part exchange In certain instances, property may be accepted in part consideration for a sale of a residential property.
The fair value is established by independent surveyors, reduced for cost to sell.
Differences between net proceeds received and fair value are recorded as a reduction increase in cost of sales.
The original sale is recorded in the normal way, with the fair value of the exchanged property replacing cash receipts.
Cash incentives Cash incentives are considered to be a discount from the purchase price offered to the acquirer and are therefore accounted for as a reduction to revenue.
Land and commercial sales Revenue is recognised when substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the land or commercial property transfer to the buyer, generally when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
Revenue is measured as the fair value of consideration received or receivable.
Affordable housing contracts and design and build contracting Contract revenue and costs are recognised in accordance with IAS 11 Construction Contracts.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured by surveys of work performed to date.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that it is probable that they will result in revenue and they are capable of being reliably measured.
Where the outcome of a long-term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised immediately in the income statement within cost of sales.
Project management services Revenue earned for the provision of project management services, typically to the Groups joint ventures and associate, are recognised on an accruals basis in line with the underlying contract.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 93 3.
Accounting policies continued Cost of sales For sales of private housing, the Group determines the value of inventory charged to cost of sales based on the total forecast cost of developing asite.
Once the total expected costs of development are established they are allocated to individual plots to achieve a build cost per plot.
These costs are recognised within cost of sales when the related revenue is recognised in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy.
To the extent that additional costs or savings are identified as the site progresses, these are recognised over the remaining plots unless they are specific to a particular plot, in which case they are recognised in the income statement at the point of sale.
For land and commercial property sales, cost of sales represents the carrying value of the related inventory on the Groups statement of financial position and this isrecognised within cost of sales when revenue is recognised in accordance with the Groups revenue recognition policy.
As outlined above, costs in relation to the sale of affordable housing and design and build contracts are recognised in accordance with IAS 11.
Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals payable and incentives receivable under operating leases are recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Finance costs and finance income Borrowing costs Borrowing costs in relation to the Groups debt facility are recognised on an accruals basis.
Also included in borrowing costs is the amortisation offees associated with the arrangement of the financing.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
The Group does not capitalise borrowing costs into developments.
Unwind of discounting The finance cost associated with the time value of money on discounted receivables and payables is recognised within finance costs as the discount unwinds over the life of the relevant item.
Current and deferred income taxation Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Current taxation The current taxation payable is based on taxable profit for the period which differs from accounting profit as reported in the income statement because itexcludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and those items never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is measured using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax rates used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised ifthe temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax is calculated at the substantively enacted tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the asset is realised or the liability issettled based upon tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in comprehensive income, except when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity, or items charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the Group intends to settle the balances on a net basis.
Segment reporting Segment reporting is presented in the consolidated financial statements in respect of the Groups business segments.
Segmental reporting reflects the Groups management structure and primary basis of internal reporting.
Segmental results include items directly attributable to the segment, as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
The chief operating decision-maker CODM has been identified as the Groups Executive Committee.
The CODM reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
The CODM assesses the performance of the operating segments based on underlying operating profit and tangible net operating asset values TNOAV.
Pension obligations The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan.
A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions to a separate entity.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they fall due.
Share-based payments The Group provides benefits to employees including Directors of the Group in the form of equity-settled share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render services in exchange for rights over shares.
For equity-settled share-based payments, the fair value of the employee services rendered is determined by reference to the fair value of the shares awarded or options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions.
All share options are valued using an option-pricing model Black Scholes or Monte Carlo.
This fair value is charged to the income statement over the vesting period of the share-based payment scheme.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 94 3.
Accounting policies continued Share-based payments continued Countryside Properties PLC invoices its subsidiary undertakings an amount equivalent to the fair value of the grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of subsidiaries.
The fair value of employee services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting period as an increase to investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding credit to equity.
The Group does not operate any cash-settled share-based payment plans.
Adjusted measures Certain items which do not relate to the Groups underlying performance are presented separately in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as non-underlying items where, in the judgement of the Directors, they need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their nature, size or incidence in order to obtain a clear and consistent presentation of the Groups underlying business performance.
As these non-underlying items can vary significantly from year to year they create volatility in reported earnings.
In addition, the Directors believe that in discussing the performance of the Group, the results of joint ventures and associate should be proportionally consolidated, including the Groups share of revenue, operating profit and TNOAV given their importance to the Groups operations.
As such, the Directors believe that the adjusted revenue, adjusted Group operating profit and adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
Adjusted Group operating profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted or underlying profit measures of other companies.
Examples of material and non-recurring items which may give rise to disclosure as non-underlying items are: fees incurred in relation to business combinations or capital market transactions: adjustments to the statement of financial position that do not relate to trading activity such as the recognition and reversal of non-trade impairments: the impact of material and non-recurring changes to discount rates: accelerated write off of unamortised issue costs on the re-financing of borrowings: and the costs of Group restructuring exercises.
Share-based payment charges in respect of the pre-IPO Management Incentive Plan established during the year ended 30 September 2013 in connection with the acquisition of Copthorn Holdings Limited and its subsidiary companies by Oaktree Capital Management LLC were also treated as a non-underlying item in the prior year.
This allows the underlying performance of the Group to be measured from period to period, due to the fact that full benefits ofowning these shares are crystallised only following an exit event, such as the IPO.
Adjusted Group operating profit is one of the key measures used by the Board to monitor Groups performance.
Dividends Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Dividends payable are recorded in the period in which they are approved or paid, whichever is earliest.
Segmental reporting Segmental reporting is presented in respect of the Groups business segments reflecting the Groups management and internal reporting structure and is the basis on which strategic operating decisions are made by the Groups Chief Operating Decision-Maker CODM.
The Groups two business segments are Partnerships and Housebuilding.
The Partnerships division specialises in medium to large-scale housing regeneration schemes delivering private and affordable homes in partnership with public sector land owners and operates primarily in and around London, the West Midlands and the North West of England.
The Housebuilding division develops large-scale sites, providing private and affordable housing on land owned or controlled by the Group, primarily around London and in the South-East of England, operating under both the Countryside and Millgate brands.
Segmental adjusted operating profit and segmental operating profit includes items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central head office costs have been allocated between the segments using a percentage of revenue basis.
Items below Group operating profit have not been allocated.
Segmental net assets and tangible net operating asset value includes items directly attributable to the segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis with the exception of intangibles, and net cash or bank debt excluding unamortised bank loan and arrangement fees.
Countryside operates entirely within the United Kingdom.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 95 4.
Segmental reporting continued a Segmental income statement Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2017 Adjusted revenue including share of associate and joint ventures revenue 476.7 552.1 1,028.8 Share of associate and joint ventures revenue 57.9 125.1 183.0 Revenue 418.8 427.0 845.8 Segment result: Adjusted operating profit including share of operating profit from associate and joint ventures 79.4 91.5 6.8 164.1 Less: share of operating profit from associate and joint ventures 10.7 22.9 33.6 Less: non-underlying items 1.6 1.6 Operating profit loss 68.7 68.6 8.4 128.9 Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2016 Adjusted revenue including share of associate and joint ventures revenue 349.9 427.1 777.0 Share of associate and joint ventures revenue 36.7 69.0 105.7 Revenue 313.2 358.1 671.3 Segment result: Adjusted operating profit including share of operating profit from associate and joint ventures 56.8 68.1 2.4 122.5 Less: share of operating profit from associate and joint ventures 7.0 18.3 25.3 Less: non-underlying items 2.6 12.5 9.9 Operating profit loss 52.4 49.8 14.9 87.3 b Segmental capital employed Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2017 1 Net assets 101.7 447.9 135.6 685.2 2 TNOAV 101.7 447.9 549.6 Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2016 1 Net assets 103.3 422.2 67.4 592.9 2 TNOAV 103.3 422.2 525.5 1.
Group items include intangible assets of 59.5m 2016: 58.9m, net of deferred tax of 1.3m 2016: 3.5m and net cash of 77.4m 2016: 12.0m.
TNOAV is calculated as net assets excluding the Group items described above.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 96 4.
Segmental reporting continued c Segmental other items Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2017 Investment in associate 2.6 2.6 Investment in joint ventures 3.9 54.9 58.8 Share of post-tax profit from associate and joint ventures 10.7 19.0 29.7 Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.4 0.8 Capital expenditure software 2.3 2.3 Depreciation and amortisation 0.4 0.5 1.7 2.6 Share-based payments 5.1 5.1 Partnerships Housebuilding Group items Total m m m m Year ended 30 September 2016 Investment in associate 5.2 5.2 Investment in joint ventures 6.4 47.5 53.9 Share of post-tax profit from associate and joint ventures 6.6 13.0 19.6 Capital expenditure property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.5 0.9 Capital expenditure software 0.7 0.7 Acquisitions 2.3 2.3 Depreciation and amortisation 0.3 0.4 1.3 2.0 Share-based payments 3.0 3.0 5.
Employees and Directors a Staff costs for the Group during the year 2017 2016 m m The aggregate remuneration for the employees and Directors of the Group comprised: Wages and salaries 72.9 58.3 Social security costs 8.4 6.9 Other pension costs Note 5b 5.6 2.6 Share-based payments pre-IPO Note 30 1.9 Share-based payments post-IPO Note 30 5.1 1.1 92.0 70.8 The average monthly number of employees including Directors for the period for each of the Groups principal activities was as follows: 2017 2016 Number Number Housebuilding and development 1,036 886 Head office 128 124 1,164 1,010 b Retirement benefits All the Groups employees are entitled to join the Groups defined contribution schemes, which are invested with Aegon.
Annual contributions to these plans charged against income amounted to 3.6m 2016: 2.6m, of which 0.4m 2016: 0.2m was outstanding at 30 September 2017.
TheGroup does not operate any defined benefit pension schemes.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 97 5.
Employees and Directors continued c Directors emoluments 2017 2016 m m Aggregate emoluments 2.6 2.5 d Emoluments of the highest paid Director 2017 2016 m m Aggregate emoluments 1.4 1.4 e Key management compensation The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of the members of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, including the Executive Directors.
2017 2016 m m Wages and salaries 7.0 4.5 Accrued retirement benefits 0.1 0.1 Share-based payments 1.9 1.5 9.0 6.1 Pension costs of 0.2m under defined contribution schemes are accrued as disclosed above.
The disclosures of shares granted under the long-term incentive schemes are included in Note 30.
Group operating profit a Group operating profit is stated after charging 2017 2016 Note m m Staff costs 5a 92.0 70.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12 0.9 0.7 Amortisation of intangible assets 11 1.7 1.3 Net provisions against inventories 17 0.5 0.6 Inventories expensed to cost of sales 17 662.0 523.7 Operating leases 4.2 4.2 Auditors remuneration 6a 0.4 1.8 During the year the Group obtained the following services from the Groups auditor as detailed below: 2017 2016 m m Fees payable to Groups auditor and its associates for the audit of parent and consolidated financial statements 0.1 0.1 Fees payable to Groups auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of subsidiary companies 0.1 0.1 Audit of joint ventures 0.1 0.1 Audit-related services 0.1 0.1 Other advisory services 0.1 Audit-related assurance and transaction services in relation to the IPO 1.3 0.4 1.8 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 98 6.
Group operating profit continued b Non-underlying items 2017 2016 m m Non-recurring items: Restructuring expense 1.6 Advisory costs 10.6 Reversal of impairment of non-trade receivable 2.6 Share-based payments pre-IPO 1.9 Total non-underlying items included within administrative expenses 1.6 9.9 Impact of change in discount rate for deferred land and overage payments 7.6 Impairment of unamortised loan arrangement fees 3.2 Total non-underlying items 9.2 13.1 Restructuring expense During the year, certain Group operations were restructured, principally the outsourcing of architecture and design services.
As a result of this, a number of people left the Group at a cost of 1.6m.
Advisory fees During the prior year, the Group engaged in corporate activity in relation to the listing of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Advisory costs of Nil 2016: 10.6m were incurred in relation to this activity.
Additionally, 4.6m of IPO-related costs were charged to the share premium account in the prior year.
These costs primarily relate to the fees of professional advisors.
Impairment of non-trade receivable In 2016, 2.6m was received resulting in a partial reversal of an impairment of a receivable recorded in 2015.
Share-based payments pre-IPO In the year ended 30 September 2013, a Management Incentive Plan the Plan was approved by the Board in which certain senior employees of Countryside Properties UK Limited, a subsidiary company, were invited to acquire shares issued by OCM Luxembourg Midco S. r. l. This Plan was treated as a non-underlying item.
The Plan ended in 2016 as a result of the IPO: as such, no costs were incurred in relation to the Plan in 2017 2016: 1.9m, of which 1.0m arose as aresult of the IPO.
Impact of change in discount rate From 1 April 2017, the discount rate applied to deferred land and overage payments was reduced from 6.0 per cent to 3.4 per cent to reflect the Groups cost of debt.
This resulted in a material, non-recurring finance cost of 7.6m 2016: Nil being recognised as an expense within non-underlying finance costs.
Impairment of unamortised loan arrangement fees As described in Note 23, the Group refinanced in May 2016.
As a result, unamortised debt finance costs in relation to the previous facility as at the refinancing date of Nil 2016: 3.2m were expensed as a non-underlying finance cost.
Taxation A total tax credit of 1.8m 2016: 1.0m in relation to all of the above non-recurring items was included within taxation in the income statement.
c Non-GAAP performance measures The Directors believe that adjusted revenue including share of revenue from associate and joint ventures, adjusted operating profit including share ofoperating profit from associates and joint ventures and underlying diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a clear and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business for shareholders.
These are not measures that are defined byIFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted or underlying profit measures of other companies.
The following table reconciles revenue to adjusted Group revenue: 2017 2016 m m Revenue 845.8 671.3 Add: share of revenue from associate and joint ventures 183.0 105.7 Adjusted Group revenue 1,028.8 777.0 The following table reconciles operating profit to adjusted Group operating profit: 2017 2016 m m Operating profit 128.9 87.3 Add: non-underlying items 1.6 9.9 Add: share of operating profit from associate and joint ventures 33.6 25.3 Adjusted Group operating profit 164.1 122.5 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 99 7.
Finance costs 2017 2016 Note m m Bank loans and overdrafts 3.0 5.2 Interest on mandatory redeemable preference shares 16.5 Unwind of discount 5.1 4.8 Amortisation of debt finance costs 23 0.6 0.8 Impairment of interest receivable from joint venture 2.0 Adjusted finance costs 10.7 27.3 Impact of change in discount rate for deferred land and overage payments 7.6 Write off of unamortised debt arrangement fees 6 3.2 18.3 30.5 Non-underlying finance costs of 7.6m 2016: Nil relate to a reduction in the discount rate applied to deferred land and overage payments from 6.0per cent to 3.4 per cent from 1 April 2017.
The mandatory redeemable preference shares accrued interest annually until redemption in February 2016.
Finance income 2017 2016 m m Interest receivable 1.5 Unwind of discount 1.4 0.8 1.4 2.3 9.
Income tax expense 2017 2016 Analysis of charge for the year m m UK corporation tax Current year 23.8 14.8 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.9 0.1 Total UK current tax 22.9 14.9 Foreign tax Luxembourg corporation tax 0.1 Total current tax 22.9 14.8 Deferred tax Note 16 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 2.1 3.0 Other differences 0.9 0.5 Total deferred tax 1.2 2.5 Income tax expense 24.1 17.3 Changes to the UK corporation tax rates were substantively enacted as part of the Finance Bill 2016 on 15 September 2016.
These include reductions to the main rate to 19.0 per cent from 1 April 2017 and to 17.0 per cent from 1 April 2020.
This will reduce the Groups future tax charge accordingly.
Deferred taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using the enacted rates that are expected to apply to the unwind of each asset or liability.
The tax assessed for the year is lower 2016: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the United Kingdom, which is 19.5 per cent 2016:20.0 per cent.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 100 9.
Income tax expense continued The table below shows the reconciliation of profit before tax to the income tax expense.
2017 2016 m m Profit before income tax 141.7 78.7 Tax calculated at the parent entity rate of tax: 19.5 per cent 2016: 20.0 per cent 27.6 15.7 Adjustments to deferred tax due to reduction in UK tax rates 0.3 0.8 Associate and joint venture tax 1.9 1.3 Deferred tax charged directly to reserves 0.7 0.2 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 1.8 1.6 Expenses not deductible for tax 1.5 2.9 Temporary timing differences 1.7 0.3 Deferred tax not recognised 0.2 Transfer pricing adjustments 1.2 Foreign tax 0.1 Income tax expense 24.1 17.3 Adjustments in respect of prior periods In both years presented the adjustments relate to the finalisation of entity tax computations following the signing of the Group financial statements.
Expenses not deductible for tax This includes disallowable accounting charges in respect of share-based payments and, in the case of the prior period, disallowable costs incurred in relation to the IPO, principally legal and advisory fees.
Deferred tax recorded directly to equity Tax of 0.7m 2016: 0.2m was credited directly to equity in relation to share-based payments.
Legislative changes In the March 2016 Budget the Government announced that it will introduce new rules to restrict the deductibility of net interest costs from 1April 2017, and that from the same date the amount of taxable profits that can be offset by brought forward tax losses will be restricted to 50 per centof those profits.
As the proposed changes had not been substantively enacted by the end of the financial period to which these financial statements relate, their effects are not included in the tax notes.
The overall effect of these changes would not have had a material impact on thefinancial statements, if they had been substantively enacted in the period.
Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing the earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue.
In the prior year, the weighted average number of shares in issue was calculated from the date of the IPO to 30 September 2016.
The weighted average number of shares, for 2016, has been stated as if the Group reorganisation had occurred at the beginning of the year.
a Basic and diluted earnings per share 2017 2016 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent m 117.2 61.1 Basic weighted average number of shares millions 450.0 450.0 Basic earnings per share pence per share 26.0 13.6 Diluted weighted average number of shares millions 453.2 450.2 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 25.8 13.6 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 101 10.
Earnings per share continued b Adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share Adjusted Group operating profit represents a key measure for the Group.
Adjusted earnings per share excludes non-underlying items from Group profit as follows: 2017 2016 Profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent m 117.2 61.1 Add: non-underlying items net of tax m 8.1 12.1 Adjusted profit from continuing operations attributable to equity holders of the parent m 125.3 73.2 Basic weighted average number of shares millions 450.0 450.0 Basic adjusted earnings per share pence per share 27.8 16.3 Diluted weighted average number of shares millions 453.2 450.2 Diluted adjusted earnings per share pence per share 27.7 16.3 Non-underlying items net of tax include costs of 10.1m, net of tax of 2.0m 2016: costs of 13.1m, net of tax of 1.0m.
The above analysis represents a non-GAAP measure which has been included to assist understanding of the Groups business.
Intangible assets Movement in intangible assets Software Brand Goodwill Total m m m m Cost At 1 October 2015 24.2 37.8 62.0 Additions 0.7 0.7 At 30 September 2016 0.7 24.2 37.8 62.7 Additions 2.3 2.3 At 30 September 2017 3.0 24.2 37.8 65.0 Accumulated amortisation At 1 October 2015 2.5 2.5 Amortisation 0.1 1.2 1.3 At 30 September 2016 0.1 3.7 3.8 Amortisation 0.5 1.2 1.7 At 30 September 2017 0.6 4.9 5.5 Net book value At 30 September 2017 2.4 19.3 37.8 59.5 At 30 September 2016 0.6 20.5 37.8 58.9 Goodwill Goodwill relates to the acquisition of the Copthorn Holdings Group in April 2013 19.3m and Millgate Developments in February 2014 18.5m.
Both entities are considered to be cash generating units CGUs.
The goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount has been determined as the value in use of the business assessed on the current five-year cash flow forecasts.
These forecasts are based on achieving the Groups medium-term targets of 17 per cent operating margin and 28 per cent ROCE with appropriate growth rates applied in following years.
Forecast revenue is based on a Board-approved five-year plan which takes into account current market trends and the Groups growth plans.
Cash flow beyond the five-year period is extrapolated using a growth rate of 2 per cent per annum.
Cash flows generated by both CGUs are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 12.5 per cent, approved by the Board of Directors.
Sensitivities The recoverable value of both CGUs is substantially in excess of the carrying value of goodwill.
Sensitivity analysis has been undertaken on each goodwill impairment review, by changing the discount rates, profit margins, growth rates and other variables applicable to each CGU.
None of these sensitivities, either individually or combined, resulted in the recoverable amount of the goodwill being reduced to below its current carrying value.
Brand Brand relates to both the Countryside brand 13.5m, acquired as part of the Copthorn Holdings Group in 2013, and the Millgate brand 10.7m, acquired as part of Millgate Developments Limited in 2014.
Both brands have been valued using the income method and are being amortised over a useful economic life of 20 years.
Amortisation expense in respect of the Groups brands of 1.2m 2016: 1.2m has been charged to administrative expenses.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 102 12.
Property, plant and equipment Plant and Fixtures and machinery fittings Total m m m Cost At 1 October 2015 5.0 3.2 8.2 Additions 0.4 0.5 0.9 At 30 September 2016 5.4 3.7 9.1 Additions 0.4 0.4 0.8 At 30 September 2017 5.8 4.1 9.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2015 3.5 2.2 5.7 Depreciation charge for the year 0.5 0.2 0.7 At 30 September 2016 4.0 2.4 6.4 Depreciation charge for the year 0.6 0.3 0.9 At 30 September 2017 4.6 2.7 7.3 Net book value At 30 September 2017 1.2 1.4 2.6 At 30 September 2016 1.4 1.3 2.7 Depreciation expense of 0.9m 2016: 0.7m has been charged to administrative expenses.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 103 13.
Investment in joint ventures The Directors have aggregated disclosure of joint ventures statements of financial position and income statements on the basis that all of the joint ventures share a similar risk profile.
The amount due to joint ventures is 0.3m 2016: 0.3m.
Transactions between the Group and its joint ventures are disclosed in Note 27.
The table below reconciles the movement in the Groups net investment in joint ventures: 2017 2016 m m At 1 October 53.9 50.1 Share of post-tax profit 28.1 18.6 Dividends paid 24.6 13.6 Other movements 1.4 1.2 At 30 September 58.8 53.9 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 104 13.
Investment in joint ventures continued The Groups investments in joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in the United Kingdom and are accounted for using the equity method, comprise: Ownership Country of interest Principal incorporation % activity Acton Gardens LLP UK 50.0 Housebuilding Brenthall Park Commercial Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Brenthall Park Infrastructure Limited UK 50.0 Dormant Brenthall Park Three Limited UK 50.0 Dormant Brenthall Park Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Cambridge Medipark Limited UK 50.0 Commercial CBC Estate Management Limited UK 50.0 Estate management C. C. B. Stevenage Limited UK 33.3 Non-trading Countryside 27 Limited UK 50.0 Commercial Countryside L&Q Oaks Village LLP UK 50.0 Housebuilding Countryside Annington Colchester Limited in liquidation UK 50.0 Housebuilding Countryside Annington Mill Hill Limited UK 50.0 Housebuilding Countryside Properties Accordia Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Countryside Properties Booth Street 2 Limited UK 39.0 Non-trading Countryside Properties Merton Abbey Mills Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Countryside Properties Salford Quays Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Countryside Maritime Limited UK 50.0 Housebuilding Countryside Neptune LLP UK 50.0 Housebuilding Countryside Zest Beaulieu Park LLP UK 50.0 Housebuilding Greenwich Millennium Village Limited UK 50.0 Housebuilding iCO Didsbury Limited UK 50.0 Commercial Mann Island Estate Limited UK 50.0 Estate management Peartree Village Management Limited UK 50.0 Dormant Silversword Properties Limited UK 50.0 Commercial The Edge 1A Limited in liquidation UK 39.0 Non-trading Woolwich Countryside Limited UK 50.0 Non-trading Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 105 14.
Investment in associate The Group holds 28.5 per cent of the ordinary share capital with pro-rata voting rights in Countryside Properties Bicester Limited, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose principal activity is the sale of serviced parcels of land, and for segmental purposes is disclosed within the Housebuilding division.
It is accounted for using the equity method.
The Groups investment in its associate is represented by: 2017 2016 m m Summarised statement of financial position: Non-current assets 1.5 Current assets 13.9 11.2 Cash 10.9 19.8 Current liabilities 15.4 14.1 Non-current liabilities 0.4 9.0 18.4 Reconciliation to carrying amount: At 1 October 18.4 14.6 Profit for the year 5.4 3.8 Dividends paid 14.8 At 30 September 9.0 18.4 Summarised statement of comprehensive income: Revenue 17.4 17.7 Expenses 10.7 12.0 Operating profit 6.7 5.7 Finance income 0.1 Income tax 1.3 2.0 Profit for the year 5.4 3.8 Groups share in per cent 28.5% 28.5% Share of revenue 5.0 5.0 Share of operating profit 1.9 1.6 Dividends paid 4.2 Investment in associate 2.6 5.2 The amount due from the associate is Nil 2016: Nil.
Transactions between the Group and its associate are disclosed in Note 27.
The below table reconciles the movement in the Groups net investment in associate: 2017 2016 m m Reconciliation to carrying amount: At 1 October 5.2 4.2 Share of post-tax profits 1.6 1.0 Dividends paid 4.2 At 30 September 2.6 5.2 The address of the registered office of the associate is Countryside House, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex CM13 3AT.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 106 15.
Available-for-sale financial assets 2017 2016 m m At 1 October 8.7 10.5 Additions from acquisitions 0.5 Increase decrease in fair value 0.2 1.5 Unwind of discount 0.7 0.7 Redemptions 2.2 1.5 At 30 September 7.4 8.7 The available-for-sale financial assets comprise loans advanced to homebuyers to assist in the purchase of their property under shared equity schemes.
The loans are secured by either a first or second legal charge over the property and are either interest free or have interest chargeable from the fifth year onwards or tenth year onwards, dependent upon the scheme under which the loans were issued.
The assets are held at fair value, which represents the current market value of the properties held discounted to fair value, based on the redemption date of the loan.
These loans are subject to credit risk, where loans may potentially not be repaid if the borrower defaults on repayment.
An adjustment for credit risk is built into the calculation by using a discount rate equivalent for home loans, which rank behind mortgages.
None of these financial assets are either past due or impaired.
The estimated value takes into consideration movements in house prices, the anticipated timing of the repayment of the asset and associated credit risk.
As the precise valuation and timing of the redemption of these assets remains uncertain, the Group applies assumptions based upon current market conditions and the Groups experience of actual cash flows resulting from these transactions.
These assumptions are reviewed at the end of each financial year as part of the impairment review conducted by the Directors.
The difference between the estimated future value and the initial fair value is credited to finance income over the term of the loan.
Future house price inflation is assumed to be zero 2016: zero.
The discount rate applied is 8.5 per cent 2016: 8.5 per cent, which the Directors believe approximates the cost of a second charge mortgage on similar properties.
If UK house price inflation had been one per cent higher or lower, with all other variables held constant and excluding any effect of current or deferred tax, the value of shared equity would increase or decrease by 0.1m 2016: 0.1m respectively, whilst if the discount rate used had been one per cent higher or lower, the value of these financial instruments would decrease or increase by 0.4m 2016: 0.5m and 0.4m 2016: 0.5m, respectively.
Changes in economic conditions will change the estimates made, therefore impacting the fair value of these loans.
The inputs used are by nature estimated and the resultant fair value has been classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy.
Deferred tax assets 2017 2016 m m Amounts due to be recovered within one year 2.8 1.8 Amounts due to be recovered after more than one year 1.5 2.8 3.3 The movement in the year in the Groups net deferred tax position was as follows: Losses Other Total m m m At 1 October 2015 5.6 5.6 Charge to the income statement for the year 3.2 0.7 2.5 Amount transferred to the statement of changes in equity 0.2 0.2 At 30 September 2016 2.4 0.9 3.3 Charge to the income statement for the year 1.5 0.3 1.2 Amount transferred to the statement of changes in equity 0.7 0.7 At 30 September 2017 0.9 1.9 2.8 A deferred tax asset of 0.9m 2016: 2.4m has been recognised in respect of unutilised losses where realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable.
Deferred tax assets of 1.9m 2016: 0.4m in respect of share-based payments, and Nil 2016: 0.5m in respect of other short-term timing differences has also been recognised.
Temporary differences arising in connection with interests in associate and joint ventures are not significant.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in relation to losses where it is considered that they are not recoverable in the near future.
The Group has unrecognised deferred tax assets of 1.2m on historical losses of 7.0m 2016: 1.3m on losses of 7.4m.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 107 17.
Inventories 2017 2016 m m Development land and work in progress 598.4 550.6 Completed properties unlet, unsold or awaiting sale 68.7 33.0 667.1 583.6 The value of inventories expensed during the year and included in cost of sales was 662.0m 2016: 523.7m.
During the year inventories were written down through cost of sales by 1.0m 2016: 1.2m.
During the year, impairment of inventories in previous years amounting to 0.5m 2016: 0.6m, has been reversed due to improved market conditions.
During the year provisions of 1.7m 2016: 1.1m were utilised as inventory was consumed.
Total provisions against inventory at 30 September 2017 were 4.8m 2016: 6.0m.
Interest incurred on deferred land purchases amounting to Nil 2016: 0.9m was capitalised during the year to inventories.
Construction contracts 2017 2016 m m Contracts in progress at the reporting date: Amounts due from contract customers included in trade and other receivables 21.6 28.1 Retentions held by customers for contract work included in trade and other receivables 10.3 10.0 Revenue generated from contracting activities during the year 150.9 174.1 Advances received 17.7 18.6 Retentions payable to suppliers included in trade and other payables 22.6 16.9 19.
Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 21.5 12.9 Amounts recoverable on construction contracts 27.5 36.7 Amounts owed by joint ventures 67.9 84.5 Other taxation and social security 5.4 Other receivables 0.9 1.0 Prepayments and accrued income 15.6 12.8 138.8 147.9 Amounts falling due in more than one year: Amounts recoverable on construction contracts 4.4 1.4 Trade receivables 8.5 9.4 12.9 10.8 Total trade and other receivables 151.7 158.7 The Directors are of the opinion that there are no significant concentrations of credit risk Note 29.
The fair value of the financial assets is not considered to be materially different from their carrying value.
The fair values are based on discounted cash flows and are within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
Trade receivables at year end have been assessed for recoverability.
A provision for impairment is made when there is objective evidence of impairment, which is usually indicated by a delay in the expected cash flows or non-payment from customers.
Trade receivables remaining outstanding past theirdue date are 1.3m 2016: 0.5m : however, none were impaired.
A provision of 8.0m 2016: 8.0m has been made against amounts due from Countryside Neptune LLP, a joint venture, to reflect the Directors view of the recoverability of this advance.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 108 20.
Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 77.4 38.3 Overdrafts 26.3 Net cash and cash equivalents 77.4 12.0 Cash and cash equivalents of 77.4m 2016: 38.3m comprise cash and short-term deposits held, of which 74.5m 2016: 36.6m is available to offset against loans drawn under the Groups revolving credit facility and overdrafts and 0.9m 2016: Nil is ring-fenced for specific developments.
Atthe year end, all financial assets held were in Sterling.
Cash and cash equivalents available for offset Within the revolving credit facility the Group has a 30m overdraft facility which can be drawn by any Group company which is in the pooling arrangement.
Cash and overdrafts are presented on a gross basis in the statement of financial position.
Trade and other payables 2017 2016 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade payables 137.8 99.3 Accruals and deferred income 107.0 71.4 Other taxation and social security 2.7 2.7 Other payables 4.1 3.8 Advances due to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 251.9 177.5 Amounts falling due in more than one year: Trade payables 84.4 109.0 Total trade and other payables 336.3 286.5 Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and land acquired on deferred terms.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables approximates to their fair value, as the impact of discounting is not significant.
Land acquired on deferred payment terms is discounted using an interest rate of 3.4 per cent 2016: 6.0 per cent.
Provisions 2017 2016 m m At 1 October 1.5 2.3 Provisions charged in the year 0.2 Provisions utilised during the year 0.5 0.8 Reclassification 1.4 At 30 September 2.6 1.5 Disclosed as current liabilities 0.6 0.8 Disclosed as non-current liabilities 2.0 0.7 2.6 1.5 1.0m 2016: 1.5m relates to an onerous lease on a leasehold office property, and is calculated on the estimated cash flows over the remaining length of the lease, discounted at a risk-free rate.
1.4m has been reclassified from accruals during the year and relates to the Groups potential obligations to rectify dilapidations of office buildings.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 109 23.
Borrowings 2017 2016 m m Bank loans Bank loan and arrangement fees Bank loans In May 2016, the Group signed a new 300m revolving credit facility with Lloyds Bank plc, Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank plc and Santander UK plc.
The agreement has a variable interest rate based on LIBOR and expires in May 2021, although the Group has the opportunity to extend the term of the facility by a further two years.
Subject to obtaining credit approval from the syndicate banks, the Group also has the option to extend the facility by a further 100m.
This facility is subject to both financial and non-financial covenants and is secured by floating charges over all the Groups assets.
InMay 2017, the Group exercised the first option to extend the facility by a further year to May 2022.
The carrying value of the loans drawn under both the old and new facilities is equal to their fair value.
As the impact of discounting is not significant, the fair values are based on discounted cash flows and are within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Bank loan arrangement fees are amortised over the term of the facility.
As a result of the signing of the new facility agreement in the prior year, the unamortised loan arrangement fee for the previous facility of 3.2m was expensed to the income statement as a non-underlying finance cost in 2016 Note 6b.
2.8m of debt finance costs in 2016 were capitalised in relation to the new facility and a further 0.6m of debt finance costs were capitalised inrelation tothe May 2017 extension.
At 30 September 2017, unamortised loan arrangement fees were 2.6m 2016: 2.5m and 0.6m 2016: 0.8m of debtfinance costs are included in finance costs Note 7.
As the Group did not have any debt at 30 September 2017 or 30 September 2016, the unamortised loan arrangement fees are disclosed as a prepayment.
The Group has the following undrawn facilities: 2017 2016 m m Floating rate: Expiring after more than one year 300 300 24.
Reserves a Share capital Number of shares 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Allotted, issued and fully paid Ordinary shares of 0.01 each 450 450 4.5 4.5 b Reserves Cumulative net gains and losses recognised in the income statement and statement of changes in equity.
Available-for-sale Retained financial Total earnings assets reserves m m m At 1 October 2015 10.3 1.6 11.9 Profit for the year 61.1 61.1 Other comprehensive income 1.5 1.5 Share-based payment 3.2 3.2 Group reorganisation 513.2 513.2 At 30 September 2016 587.8 0.1 587.9 Profit for the year 117.2 117.2 Dividends 30.6 30.6 Other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 Share-based payment 5.1 5.1 At 30 September 2017 679.5 0.3 679.8 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 110 25.
Notes to the cash flow statement Reconciliation of operating profit to cash generated from operations 2017 2016 Note m m Cash flows from operating activities Profit before taxation 141.7 78.7 Adjustments for: Depreciation charge 12 0.9 0.7 Amortisation charge 11 1.7 1.3 Non-cash items 1.2 0.7 Share of post-tax profit from joint ventures and associate 13, 14 29.7 19.6 Share-based payment pre-tax 30 4.2 3.0 Finance costs 7 10.7 27.3 Impact of change in deferred land and overage payments 7 7.6 Impairment of debt amortisation fees 6 3.2 Finance income 8 1.4 2.3 Profit on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.3 1.3 Changes in working capital: Increase in inventories 17 3.9 38.5 Increase in trade and other receivables 19 8.2 13.0 Decrease in trade and other payables 21 45.0 54.2 Increase decrease in provisions for liabilities and charges 22 1.1 0.8 Cash generated from used in operations 78.2 14.8 Non-cash items Non-cash items primarily relate to net inventory provision credit amounting to 0.5m 2016: expense of 0.6m.
Investments The Company substantially owns directly or indirectly the whole of the issued and fully paid ordinary share capital of its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiary undertakings of the Group at 30 September 2017 are presented below: Country of Voting rights incorporation % Principal activity Direct investment Copthorn Holdings Limited UK 100.0 Holding company Indirect investment Alma Estate Enfield Management Company Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Beaulieu Park Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Brenthall Park One Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Cliveden Village Management Company Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Copthorn 2009 Limited in liquidation UK 100.0 Dormant Copthorn Finance Limited in liquidation UK 100.0 Dormant Copthorn Limited in liquidation UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside 26 Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside 28 Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Build Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Cambridge One Limited UK 100.0 Holding Land Countryside Cambridge Two Limited UK 100.0 Holding Land Countryside Commercial & Industrial Properties Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Developments Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Eight Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Four Limited UK 100.0 Holding Company Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 111 26.
Investments continued Country of Voting rights incorporation % Principal activity Countryside Investments Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Properties Commercial Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Properties Holdings Limited UK 100.0 Holding Company Countryside Properties In Partnership Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Properties Joint Ventures Limited UK 100.0 Holding Company Countryside Properties Land One Limited UK 100.0 Holding Land Countryside Properties Land Two Limited UK 100.0 Holding Land Countryside Properties London & Thames Gateway Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Properties Northern Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Properties Southern Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Residential South Thames Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Properties Special Projects Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Properties Springhead Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Properties Uberior Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Properties UK Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside Residential Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Residential South West Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Seven Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Countryside Sigma Limited UK 74.9 Housebuilding Countryside Thirteen Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Countryside UK Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Dunton Garden Suburb Limited UK 100.0 Land Promotion Knight Strategic Land Limited UK 100.0 Land Promotion Harold Wood Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Lakenmoor Ltd UK 100.0 Dormant Mandeville Place Radwinter Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Millgate Developments Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Millgate Homes Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Millgate Homes UK Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Millgate UK Holdings Limited UK 100.0 Holding Company Newhall Land Limited UK 100.0 Housebuilding Oaklands Hamlet Resident Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Skyline 120 Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Skyline 120 Nexus Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Springhead Resident Management Company Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management South at Didsbury Point Two Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Trinity Place Residential Management Company Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Urban Hive Hackney Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Wychwood Park Golf Club Limited UK 100.0 Dormant Wychwood Park Holdings Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management Wychwood Park Management Limited UK 100.0 Estate Management All subsidiaries are fully consolidated, after eliminating intergroup transactions.
The address of the registered office of all the subsidiaries is Countryside House, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex CM13 3AT.
The non-controlling interest relates to Countryside Sigma Limited.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 112 27.
Related party transactions Transactions with Group joint ventures and associate Joint ventures Associate 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Sales during the year 24.0 26.2 1.1 0.7 At 1 October 84.2 62.1 Net repayments advances during the year 16.6 22.1 At 30 September 67.6 84.2 Included within the advances movement are non-cash items of 0.7 m 2016: 0.7 m relating to deferred revenue and 1.1m 2016: 1.3 m relating tojoint ventures reporting net liabilities.
The transactions noted above are between the Group and its joint ventures and associate whose relationship is described in Note 13 and Note14respectively.
Sales of goods and services to related parties were made at the Groups usual list prices.
No purchases were made by the Group from its joint ventures or associate.
The amounts outstanding ordinarily bear no interest and will be settled in cash.
Remuneration of key management personnel The aggregate remuneration of the Executive Committee, who are considered to be key management personnel of the Group, was 7.1m 2016:6.1m.
During the year, the Executive Committee was expanded as described on page 44.
Transactions with key management personnel In 2014, properties were sold at market value by the Group to parties related to key management personnel who continue to lease them back to the Group.
Payments under those leases were made to the individuals as follows: Close family members of Ian Sutcliffe received 17,250 2016: 17,250.
A company of which Graham Cherry, a member of the Groups Executive Committee, is a Director and shareholder received 21,000 2016: 21,000.
In 2016 a close family member of Ian Sutcliffe jointly purchased a property from Acton Gardens LLP, an entity in which the Group has a 50 per cent interest, at market value of 530,000.
In 2016, a close family member of Ian Sutcliffe and a close family member of Graham Cherry were employed by a subsidiary of the Group.
Both individuals were recruited through the normal interview process and are employed at salaries commensurate with their experience and roles.
The combined annual salary and benefits of these individuals is less than 100,000 2016: less than 100,000.
Financial instruments The following tables categorise the Groups financial assets and liabilities included in the consolidated statement of financial position: Loans and Available receivables for sale Total m m m 2017 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 7.4 7.4 Trade and other receivables 61.9 61.9 Amounts due from associate and joint ventures 67.9 67.9 Cash and cash equivalents 77.4 77.4 207.2 7.4 214.6 2016 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 8.7 8.7 Trade and other receivables 60.4 60.4 Amounts due from associate and joint ventures 84.5 84.5 Cash and cash equivalents 38.3 38.3 183.2 8.7 191.9 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 113 28.
Financial instruments continued Other financial liabilities at amortised cost m 2017 Liabilities Overdrafts Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 229.0 Amount due to joint ventures 0.3 229.3 2016 Liabilities Overdrafts 26.3 Trade and other payables excluding non-financial liabilities 214.9 Amount due to joint ventures 0.3 241.5 Fair value estimation The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1: Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
Level 3: Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
The key assumptions used in Level 3 valuations include house price movements, the expected timing of receipts, credit risk and discount rates.
The discount rate applied was 8.5 per cent 2016: 8.5 per cent which Directors believe approximates the cost ofa second charge mortgage on similar properties.
Techniques, such as discounted cash flow analysis, have been used to determine fair value for the Level 3 financial instruments.
The following table presents the Groups assets that are measured at fair value at 30 September: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m 2017 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 7.4 7.4 2016 Assets Available-for-sale financial assets 8.7 8.7 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market for example, over-the-counter derivatives is determined by using valuation techniques.
These valuation techniques maximise the use of observable market data where it is available and rely as little as possible on entity-specific estimates.
If all significant inputs required to fair value an instrument are observable, the instrument is included in Level 2.
If one or more of the significant inputs is not based on observable market data, the instrument is included in Level 3.
The fair values of the financial instruments that are measured at amortised cost is not shown, because the difference is not material.
Financial risk management The main financial risks associated with the Group have been identified as liquidity risk, interest rate risk, housing market risk and credit risk.
The Directors are responsible for managing these risks and the policies adopted are set out below.
Liquidity risk The Group finances its operations through a mixture of equity Company share capital, reserves and retained earnings and debt bank loan facilities.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by monitoring its existing facilities for both financial covenant and funding headroom against forecast requirements based on short-term and long-term cash flow forecasts.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 114 29.
Financial risk management continued Maturity analysis The following table sets out the contractual undiscounted maturities including estimated cash flows of the financial assets and liabilities excludingfinancial derivatives of the Group at 30 September: Less than One to two Two to five Over five one year years years years Total m m m m m 2017 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 77.4 77.4 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.9 2.3 4.9 5.8 13.9 Trade and other receivables 69.5 10.8 2.5 82.8 Amounts due from joint ventures and associate 67.9 67.9 215.7 13.1 7.4 5.8 242.0 2017 Liabilities Overdrafts Trade and other payables 253.3 50.3 38.2 0.3 342.1 Amounts due to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Provisions 0.6 1.4 0.6 2.6 254.2 51.7 38.8 0.3 345.0 2016 Assets Cash and cash equivalents 38.3 38.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 1.1 6.0 9.1 16.2 Trade and other receivables 49.6 5.9 4.7 0.2 60.4 Amounts due from joint ventures and associate 84.5 84.5 172.4 7.0 10.7 9.3 199.4 2016 Liabilities Overdrafts 26.3 26.3 Trade and other payables 102.2 48.8 75.8 1.6 228.4 Amounts due to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 Provisions 0.8 0.5 0.2 1.5 129.6 49.3 76.0 1.6 256.5 Cash and cash equivalents includes 74.5m 2016: 36.6m, which is available for offset against loans drawn under the Groups revolving credit facility and overdrafts.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk reflects the Groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates in the market.
This risk arises from bank loans that are drawn under the Groups loan facilities with variable interest rates based upon UK LIBOR.
For the year ended 30 September 2017 it is estimated that an increase by 0.5per cent in interest rates would have decreased the Groups profit before tax by 0.4m 2016: 0.7m.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 115 29.
Financial risk management continued Interest rate risk continued The following table sets out the interest rate risk associated with the Groups financial liabilities at 30 September 2017: Non-interest Fixed rate Floating rate bearing Total m m m m 2017 Liabilities Bank loans and finance cost Trade and other payables 229.0 229.0 Amounts due to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 229.3 229.3 2016 Liabilities Bank loans and finance cost 26.3 26.3 Trade and other payables 32.2 182.7 214.9 Amounts due to joint ventures 0.3 0.3 32.2 26.3 183.0 241.5 The financial assets of the Group amounting to 215.7m 2016: 191.9m with the exception of cash and cash equivalents amounting to 77.4m 2016:38.3m are all non-interest bearing.
The Group has no exposure to foreign currency risk.
Housing market risk The Group is affected by price fluctuations in the UK housing market.
These are in turn affected by the wider economic conditions such as mortgage availability and associated interest rates, employment and consumer confidence.
Whilst these risks are beyond the Groups ultimate control, risk is spread across business activities undertaken by the Group and the geographic regions in which it operates.
We have considered the sensitivity in relation to available-for-sale financial assets, which is detailed in Note 15. Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk is limited solely to the United Kingdom for housebuilding activities and by the fact that the Group receives cash at the point of legal completion of its sales.
The Groups remaining credit risk predominantly arises from trade receivables and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans receivable from financial assets held for sale are those advanced to homebuyers to assist in their purchase of property under the shared equity schemes.
The loans are secured by either a first or second charge over the property and are held at fair value.
Trade receivables on deferred terms arise from land sales.
The amount deferred is secured by a charge over the land until such time payment is received.
Trade and other receivables comprise mainly the amounts receivable from the Homes and Communities Agency in relation to the Help to Buy scheme, housing associations, joint ventures and the associate.
The Directors consider the credit rating of the various debtors is good in respect of the amounts outstanding and therefore credit risk is considered to be low.
Cash and cash equivalents and derivative financial instruments are held with UK clearing banks which are either A or Arated.
Capital management The Groups policies seek to protect returns to shareholders by ensuring the Group will continue to trade profitably in the foreseeable future.
TheGroup also aims to optimise its capital structure of debt and equity so as to minimise its cost of capital.
The Group manages its capital with regardto the risks inherent in the business and the sector within which it operates by monitoring its actual cash flows against bank loan facilities, financial covenants and the cash flow forecasts approved by the Directors.
2017 2016 m m Total borrowings Less: cash and cash equivalents available for offset Net borrowings Total equity 685.2 592.9 Total capital 685.2 592.9 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 116 30.
Share-based payments The Group recognised 5.1m 2016: 3.0m of employee costs related to share-based payment transactions during the financial year.
A deferred tax asset of 1.9m 2016: 0.4m was recognised in relation to these transactions, of which 0.8m 2016: 0.2m was credited to the income statement and 0.7m 2016: 0.2m was credited directly to equity.
National Insurance contributions are payable in respect of certain share-based payment transactions and are treated as cash-settled transactions.
Thecost of these contributions is included within the share-based payment expense.
At 30 September 2017, the carrying amount of National Insurance contributions payable was 1.2m 2016: 0.2m, which was recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position within accruals.
The Group operated a number of share-based payment schemes during the financial year all of which are equity-settled as set out below: a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS The Group operates an SRSOS, which is open to all employees with more than three months continuous service.
This is a UK tax-advantaged SAYE plan.
Under the SAYE, eligible participants are granted options over such number of shares as determined by reference to their monthly savings contract over three years.
Participants remaining in the Groups employment at the end of the three-year savings period are entitled to use their savings to purchase shares in the Company at a stated exercise price set at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the share price on the day preceding the date of grant.
Employees leaving for certain reasons are able to use their savings to purchase shares within six months of their cessation of employment.
At30September 2017, employees held 760 three-year savings contracts 2016: 650 in respect of options over 3.0 million shares 2016: 2.8 million.
254 employees subscribed tothe December 2016 offer, representing a participation rate of 23 per cent of eligible employees February 2016: 691 employees, 70 per cent.
Thereduction in the participation rate was due to the high number of employees subscribing for the maximum allowed amount in February 2016.
Areconciliation of option movements is shown below.
Options granted during the year were valued using the Black Scholes option-pricing model.
No performance conditions or assumptions regarding service were included in the fair value calculations.
The fair value per option granted during the year and the assumptions used in the calculation are detailed in the table below.
22 December 16 March Date of grant 2016 2016 Options granted millions 0.8 3.0 Share price at date of grant pence 236 240 Exercise price pence 192 192 Volatility per cent 28 29 Option life years 3 3 Expected dividend yield per cent 3.0 3.0 Risk-free rate per cent 1.0 1.0 Fair value per option Black Scholes pence 55 57 Instruments Instruments Movements in the year m m Options outstanding at 1 October 2015 Granted 3.0 Lapsed Forfeited 0.2 Options outstanding at 30 September 2016 2.8 Granted 0.8 Lapsed 0.1 Forfeited 0.1 0.4 Outstanding at 30 September 2017 0.7 2.3 The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three years, on the assumption that 45 per cent of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Company based on the Groups experience of employee attrition rates.
As the first two awards of options under the scheme were made in the current and prior years, none of the options are currently exercisable.
Theweighted average remaining contractual life of share options outstanding at 30 September 2017 was 1.6 years 2016: 2.4 years.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 117 30.
Share-based payments continued b Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Under the LTIP, shares are conditionally awarded to senior managers of the Company.
The core awards are calculated as a percentage of the participants salaries and scaled according to grade.
The awards granted in 2016 and 2017 are assessed against ROCE, TNAV and relative TSR.
Straight line vesting will apply if performance falls between two thresholds.
Performance will be measured at the end of the three-year performance period.
If the required level of performance has been reached, the awards vest and the shares under award will be released.
Dividends do not accrue on the shares that vest.
The weighted average remaining contractual life of LTIP awards outstanding at 30 September 2017 was 1.8 years.
Details of the shares conditionally allocated at 30 September 2017 are set out below.
The conditional shares were valued using the following methods: for the non-market-based elements of the award, a combination of a Black Scholes option-pricing model: and for the relative TSR elements of the award, a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The key assumptions underpinning the Black Scholes option-pricing model and Monte Carlo simulation model are set out in the table below.
22 May 15 December 18 February Date of grant 2017 2016 2016 Awards granted millions 0.2 3.7 3.8 Share price at date of grant pence 299 236 237 Exercise price pence nil nil nil Volatility per cent 28 28 29 Award life years 3 3 3 Expected dividend yield per cent 3.0 3.0 3.0 Risk-free rate per cent 1.0 1.0 1.0 Fair value per conditional share Black Scholes pence 255 216 219 Fair value per conditional share Monte Carlo pence 153 132 140 Instruments Instruments Instruments Movements in the year m m m Awards outstanding at 1 October 2015 Granted 3.8 Lapsed 0.2 Awards outstanding at 30 September 2016 3.6 Granted 0.2 3.7 Lapsed 0.3 0.2 Awards outstanding at 30 September 2017 0.2 3.4 3.4 No awards under the plan have vested.
c Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Under the DBP, certain senior managers and Directors of the Company receive one-third of their annual bonus entitlement as a conditional share award.
The number of shares awarded is calculated by dividing the value of the deferred bonus by the average mid-market share price on the three business days prior to grant.
The shares vest after three years subject to the employee remaining in the employment of the Group.
If an employee leaves during the three-year period, the shares are forfeited except in certain circumstances as set out in the Plan rules.
The fair value of the awards is equal to the share price on the date of grant.
The fair value is expensed to the income statement in a straight line over four years, being the year in which the bonus is earned and the three-year holding period.
During the year, 0.5 million shares were conditionally allocated on 15 December 2016 2016: nil with the share price on the date of grant being 2.42.
A reconciliation of the number of shares conditionally allocated is shown below: 2017 Number of shares m Outstanding at the beginning of the year Granted 0.5 Forfeited Exercised Expired Outstanding at the end of the year 0.5 Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 30 September 2017 118 30.
Share-based payments continued d Legacy Management Incentive Plan MIP Prior to IPO, Ian Sutcliffe and Rebecca Worthington participated in the MIP under which participants were awarded shares in OCM Luxembourg Coppice Midco S. r. l. Midco.
These interests were purchased at fair value, determined by a third party.
Immediately prior to IPO, any shares in Midco held by the participants were exchanged for new shares in Countryside Properties PLC.
On17February 2016, the awards vested when the Company was admitted to the London Stock Exchange.
No further performance or employment conditions are attached to these shares, save for a requirement not to sell for a period of one year following the IPO.
36.5m shares vested under the awards.
The residual shareholding for Ian Sutcliffe and Rebecca Worthington at 30 September 2017 isdisclosed as part of the total shareholding in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Operating lease commitments The Group has various leases under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The lease terms are between one and 20 years, and the majority of lease agreements are renewable at the end of the lease period at market rate.
The Group also leases various vehicles, under cancellable lease agreements.
The Group is required to give a six-month notice for termination of these agreements.
The lease expenditure charged to the income statement during the year is disclosed in Note 6.
At 30 September the future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 4.3 4.0 Later than one year and less than five years 7.2 8.5 After five years 2.4 1.6 13.9 14.1 32.
Capital commitments The Group was not committed to the purchase of any property, plant and equipment or software intangible assets at 30 September 2017 2016: Nil.
Parent company guarantees The Group has made parent company guarantees to its joint ventures and associate in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has entered into counter indemnities to banks, insurance companies, statutory undertakings and the National House Building Council in the ordinary course of business, including those in respect of joint venture partners from which it is anticipated that no material liabilities will arise.
Litigation and claims The Group is subject to various claims, audits and investigations that have arisen in the ordinary course of business.
These matters include but are notlimited to employment and commercial matters.
The outcome of all of these matters is subject to future resolution, including the uncertainties oflitigation.
Based on information currently known to the Group and after consultation with external lawyers, the Directors believe that the ultimate resolution of these matters, individually and in aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on the Groups financial condition.
35. Dividend The following dividends have been recognised as distributions in the year: 2017 2016 m m Prior year final dividend per share of 3.4 pence 2016: Nil 15.3 Current year interim dividend per share of 3.4 pence 2016: Nil 15.3 30.6 The Board of Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.0 pence per share, amounting to a total dividend of 22.5m 2016: 15.3m which will bepaid on 9 February 2018 to shareholders on the register on 22 December 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
The expense has not been recognised in these financial statements as the shareholders right to receive the dividend had not been established at 30 September 2017.
Countryside Properties PLC Annual report 2017
