STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Shareholder Information Corporate Timetable Registrar Equiniti Limited Aspect House FINANCIAL CALENDAR Spencer Road Lancing Annual General Meeting and AGM statement 9 February 2018 West Sussex, BN99 6DA 2018 half year results May 2018 Telephone 0371 384 2294 International 44 121 415 7047.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
Shareholder accounts may be accessed online through www.
DIvIDENDS AND BOND INTEREST co. uk.
This gives secure access to account information instructions.
There is also a Shareview dealing service which is a simple and convenient way to buy Proposed 2017 final dividend: or sell shares in the Group.
Ex-dividend 18 January 2018 Record date 19 January 2018 Payment date 16 February 2018 2018 interim dividend to be paid July 2018 Bond interest 31 March and 30 September 2018 Effect of REIT status on payment of dividends As a REIT, we do not pay UK corporation tax in respect of rental profits and chargeable gains relating to our property rental business.
However, we are required to distribute at least 90% of the qualifying income broadly calculated using the UK tax rules as a PID.
Certain categories of shareholder may be able to receive the PID element of their dividends gross, without deduction of withholding tax.
Categories which may claim this exemption include: UK companies, charities, local authorities, UK pension schemes and managers of PEPs, ISAs and Child Trust Funds.
Further information and the forms for completion to apply for PIDs to be paid gross are available on the Groups website or from the registrar.
Where the Group pays an ordinary dividend this will be treated in the same way as dividends from non-REIT companies.
The 2017 final dividend is being paid entirely as an ordinary dividend.
146 STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 Glossary of terms Glossary of terms Annualised current income EPRA cost ratio Estimated rental value ERV Net initial yield Total annualised actual and estimated Total costs as a percentage of gross ERV is the market rental value of Net initial income at the date of income reserved by leases at a rental income.
properties owned by the Group, valuation expressed as a percentage valuation date.
No rent is attributed estimated by the Groups valuers.
Yields reflect EPRA earnings to leases which were subject to net income after deduction of any The level of recurring income arising Like-for-like ERV growth is the change rent-free periods at that date.
It does ground rents, head rents, rent from core operational activities.
It in ERV during a period, adjusted to not reflect any ground rents, head charges and estimated irrecoverable excludes all items which are not remove the impact of acquisitions and rents nor rent charges and estimated outgoings.
relevant to the underlying and disposals, expressed as a percentage irrecoverable outgoings at the recurring portfolio performance.
of ERV at the start of the period.
Estimated income Acquisitions and capital expenditure EPRA EPS Fair value refers to gross ERVs in respect of rent less disposals in a period.
EPRA earnings divided by the The amount at which an asset or reviews outstanding at the valuation weighted average number of shares in liability could be exchanged between Portfolio reversionary potential date and, where appropriate, ERV in issue during a reporting period.
two knowledgeable, willing and The amount by which the ERV respect of lease renewals outstanding unconnected parties in an arms exceeds current income, measured at EPRA net assets at the valuation date where the fair length transaction at the valuation date.
Net assets adjusted for items that are value reflects terms for a renewed not expected to crystallise in normal Gearing Property Income Distribution PID lease.
Like-for-like growth in circumstances, such as the fair value Nominal value of Group borrowings A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its annualised current income is the of derivative financial instruments and expressed as a percentage of EPRA shareholders paid out of qualifying change during a period, adjusted to deferred tax on property valuation net assets.
A REIT is required to distribute remove the impact of acquisitions at least 90% of its qualifying profits as surpluses.
It includes additional equity if and disposals, expressed as a Interest cover all vested share options were exercised.
percentage of annualised current Operating profit before investment income at the start of the period.
EPRA NAV property disposals and valuation Real Estate Investment Trust REIT EPRA net assets per share, including movements, divided by finance costs A REIT is a tax designation for an entity Alternative Performance Measure the potentially dilutive effect of net of finance income.
or group investing in real estate that APM outstanding options granted over reduces or eliminates corporation tax A financial measure of historical or Like-for-like growth in rents ordinary shares.
on rental profits and chargeable gains future financial performance, position receivable relating to the rental business, or cash flows of the Group which is not EPRA triple net assets The increase in rents receivable during providing certain criteria obligations a measure defined or specified in IFRS.
EPRA net assets amended to include an accounting period, adjusted to set out in tax legislation are met.
the fair value of financial instruments remove the impact of acquisitions, Best Practices Recommendations and debt.
disposals and changes as a result of Topped-up net initial yield BPR larger refurbishment schemes, Net initial yield adjusted to assume Standards set out by EPRA to provide EPRA NNNAV expressed as a percentage of rents rent-free periods or other unexpired comparable reporting between EPRA NAV amended to include the fair receivable in the corresponding lease incentives, such as discounted investment property companies.
value of financial instruments and debt.
rent periods and stepped rents, have Blended cost of debt EPRA vacancy expired.
Loan-to-value LTV Weighted average cost of drawn The rental value of vacant property Nominal value of borrowings Total Shareholder Return TSR borrowings, plus non-utilisation fees available expressed as a percentage of expressed as a percentage of the fair The change in the market price of an on undrawn borrowings.
ERV of the total portfolio.
ordinary share plus dividends Compound Annual Growth Rate Equivalent yield reinvested expressed as a percentage Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP CAGR Equivalent yield is the internal rate of of the share price at the beginning of An arrangement under which an The year-on-year growth rate of an return from an investment property, the period.
employee is awarded options in the investment over a specified period of based on the gross outlays for the Company at nil cost, subject to a Valuation growth time.
purchase of a property including period of continued employment and The valuation movement and realised purchase costs, reflecting reversions Diluted net asset value per share the attainment of NAV and TSR targets surpluses or deficits arising from the to current market rent, and such Net asset value per share taking into over a three-year vesting period.
Groups investment property portfolio items as voids and non-recoverable account the dilutive effect of expressed as a percentage return on expenditure but disregarding potential Net asset value NAV potential vesting of share options.
the valuation at the beginning of the changes in market rents.
Equity shareholders funds divided by EPRA period adjusted, on a time weighted the number of ordinary shares at the European Public Real Estate European Public Real Estate Association.
basis, for acquisitions, disposals and balance sheet date.
Association EPRA EPRA adjustments capital expenditure.
When measured EPRA develops policies for standards Net asset value return Standard adjustments to calculate on a like-for-like basis, the calculation of reporting disclosure, ethics and The change in EPRA NAV per ordinary EPRA measures, in accordance with excludes those properties acquired industry practices.
share plus dividends paid per ordinary its BPR.
or sold during the period.
share during the period of calculation, expressed as a percentage of the EPRA NAV per share at the beginning of the period.
co. uk Print: Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on Arctic Matt, a paper containing 100% virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Some pulp in this product is bleached using both elemental chlorine free ECF process and using a totally chlorine free TCF process.
Shaftesbury Annual Report 2017 SHAFTESBURY PLC 22 Ganton Street Carnaby London W1F 7FD T: 020 7333 8118 shaftesbury.
