SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 18.
To authorise the Company and any company which is, or becomes, asubsidiary of the Company during the period to THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND which this Resolution relates, to: REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION 18.1 make donations to political parties or independent If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, election candidates: you should immediately consult your stockbroker, bank 18.2 make donations to political organisations other than manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent political parties: and financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise 18.3 incur political expenditure, during the period commencing transferred all your shares in Compass Group PLC, please on the date of this Resolution and ending on the date of send this Notice and the accompanying documents to the the Companys next Annual General Meeting, provided purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or that any such donations and expenditure made by the other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected Company, or by any such subsidiary, shall not exceed for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
100,000 per company and, together with those made by any such subsidiary and the Company, shall not exceed in aggregate 100,000.
Any terms used in this Resolution 18 which are defined in Part Notice is hereby given that the seventeenth Annual General Meeting 14 of the Companies Act 2006 shall bear the same meaning for of Compass Group PLC the Company will be held at 12 noon on the purposes of this Resolution.
Thursday 8 February 2018 in the Live Room at Rugby Football Union, Rugby House, Twickenham Stadium, 200 Whitton Road, 19.
That the rules of the Compass Group PLC Long Term Incentive Twickenham, Middlesex TW2 7BA the Meeting the AGM in Plan 2018 2018 LTIP to be constituted by the rules produced order to transact the following business: in draft to this Meeting and for the purposes of identification To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions, of initialled by the Chairman, the principal features of which are summarised in this Notice of Meeting, be approved which Resolutions 21 to 24 will be proposed as special resolutions and all other Resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
and adopted and that the directors be authorised to do all acts and things which they consider necessary or expedient to carry 1.
To receive and adopt the Directors Annual Report and Accounts the 2018 LTIP into effect, including making such modifications and the Auditors Report thereon for the financial year ended as they may consider appropriate to take account of the 30 September 2017. requirements of the London Stock Exchange, the UK Listing 2.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Policy set out on pages Authority, best practice or local tax, exchange control or 77 to 83 of the Directors Remuneration Report contained within securities laws outside of the United Kingdom.
the Annual Report and Accounts for the financial year ended 20.
20.1 To renew the power conferred on the directors by Article 30 September 2017, such Remuneration Policy to take effect 12 of the Companys Articles of Association for aperiod from the date on which this Resolution is passed.
expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting 3.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report other of the Company after the date on which this Resolution is than the Remuneration Policy referred to in Resolution 2 above passed or, if earlier, at close of business on 7 May 2019: contained within the Annual Report and Accounts for the and for that period the section 551 amount shall financial year ended 30 September 2017. be58,299,800.
To declare afinal dividend of 22.3 pence per ordinary share 20.2 In addition, the section 551 amount shall be increased in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2017. by 58,299,800 for aperiod expiring at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the 5.
To re-elect Dominic Blakemore as adirector of the Company.
date on which this Resolution is passed, provided that 6.
To re-elect Richard Cousins as adirector of the Company.
the directors power in respect of such latter amount shall 7.
To re-elect Gary Green as adirector of the Company.
only be used in connection with arights issue: 8.
To re-elect Johnny Thomson as adirector of the Company.
1 to holders of ordinary shares in proportion 9.
To re-elect Carol Arrowsmith as adirector of the Company.
as nearly as may be practicable to their existing 10.
To re-elect John Bason as adirector of the Company.
To re-elect Stefan Bomhard as adirector of the Company.
2 to holders of other equity securities as required 12.
To re-elect Don Robert as adirector of the Company.
by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, 13.
To re-elect Nelson Silva as adirector of the Company.
To re-elect Ireena Vittal as a director of the Company.
and that the directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they consider necessary to deal 15.
To re-elect Paul Walsh as adirector of the Company.
with fractional entitlements, legal or practical problems under 16.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys auditor until the the laws of, or the requirements of, any relevant regulatory body conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
or stock exchange, any territory, or any matter whatsoever.
To authorise the Audit Committee to agree the auditors remuneration.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 185 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 23.
To generally and unconditionally authorise the Company, SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS pursuant to and in accordance with section 701 of the 21.
To authorise the directors, subject to the passing of Resolution Companies Act 2006, to make market purchases within the 20, and in accordance with the power conferred on the directors meaning of section 693 4 of that Act of ordinary shares of by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association, to allot 1 11 20 pence each in the capital of the Company subject to equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the following conditions: cash under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for 23.1 the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply hereby authorised to be purchased is 158,308,000: to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be limited: 23.2 the minimum price excluding expenses which may 21.1 to allotments for rights issues and other pre-emptive 1 bepaid for each ordinary share is 11 20 pence: issues: and 23.3 the maximum price excluding expenses which may 21.2 to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury be paid for each ordinary share in respect of ashare shares otherwise than under paragraph 21.1 above contracted to be purchased on any day, does not exceed up to anominal amount of 8,746,517 being not more the higher of 1 an amount equal to 105% of the average than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as treasury shares of the Company as at 1 December 2017, derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official being the last practicable date prior to the publication of List for the five business days immediately preceding the this Notice, day on which the purchase is made and 2 the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, at the close of business on from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: and 7 May 2019, but in each case, prior to the expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or 23.4 this authority shall expire, unless previously renewed, might require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares varied or revoked by the Company, at the conclusion of to be sold after the authority expires and the directors may allot the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or close equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer of business on 7August 2019, whichever is the earlier or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded prior to the expiry of 22.
To authorise the directors, subject to the passing of Resolution this authority and which will or may be executed wholly 20, and in accordance with the power conferred on the directors or partly after the expiry of this authority.
by Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and in addition to any authority granted under Resolution 21 to allot 24.
To authorise the directors to call ageneral meeting of the equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for Company, other than an Annual General Meeting, on not less cash under the authority given by that Resolution and or to sell than 14 clear working days notice, provided that this authority ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares for shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General cash as if section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply Meeting of the Company after the date of the passing of this to any such allotment or sale, such authority to be: Resolution.
22.1 limited to the allotment of equity shares or sale of Voting on all Resolutions will be by way of apoll.
treasury shares up to anominal amount of 8,746,517 By Order of the Board being not more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 1December 2017, being the last practicable date prior tothe publication of this Notice: 22.2 used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, Mark White if the authority is to be used within six months after the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary original transaction atransaction which the directors 18 December 2017 determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of akind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Registered Office: Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published Compass House by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice, Guildford Street Chertsey such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual General Surrey KT16 9BQ Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at close of business on 7May 2019, but in each case, prior to its expiry the Company Registered in England and Wales No.
4083914 may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold after the authority expires and the directors may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
186 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RESOLUTION 18 DONATIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE RESOLUTIONS It is not Group policy to make donations to political parties.
RESOLUTION 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS However, it is possible that certain routine activities undertaken The directors are required to present to the AGM the audited by the Company and its subsidiaries might unintentionally fall within Accounts and the Directors and Auditors Reports for the financial the wide definition of matters constituting political donations and year ended 30 September 2017. expenditure in the CA 2006.
Any expenditure that is regulated under RESOLUTION 2 REMUNERATION POLICY the CA 2006 must first be approved by shareholders and will be Shareholders are requested to approve the Remuneration Policy.
disclosed in next years Annual Report.
This Resolution, if passed, The Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 77 to 83 of the will renew the directors authority until the AGM to be held in 2019 Directors Remuneration Report contained within the 2017 2019 AGM when the directors intend to renew this authority to Annual Report and Accounts.
make donations and incur expenditure which might otherwise be caught by the terms of the CA 2006, up to an aggregate amount In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 CA of 100,000 for the Company and for subsidiary companies.
2006, aseparate Resolution on the Remuneration Policy part of the Directors Remuneration Report is required to be put to avote by RESOLUTION 19 ADOPTION OF THE LONG TERM INCENTIVE shareholders.
The vote is binding which means that payments PLAN 2018 2018 LTIP cannot be made under the Policy until it has been approved The Compass Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2010 2010 LTIP by shareholders.
It is proposed that future share incentive awards to the executive directors and members of the Executive Board be The Policy Report must be put to shareholders at least every three made under anew long term incentive plan, consistent with the new years, unless during that time it is to be changed.
The Company Remuneration Policy to be proposed for shareholder approval as currently intends to submit the Policy for approval by shareholders Resolution 2.
There are no material changes to the 2010 LTIP save every three years.
to the weighting of performance measures and the introduction of RESOLUTION 3 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT deferred bonus shares as detailed in the Appendix on pages 190 In accordance with section 439 of the CA 2006, shareholders are and 191.
The 2018 LTIP is designed to incentivise executive requested to approve the Directors Remuneration Report.
The directors and other such senior executives by providing ashare of Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 84 to 94 of the the long term value they create for shareholders.
The Remuneration 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Committee of the Board believes this to be the most appropriate way to recognise superior performance.
RESOLUTION 4 FINAL DIVIDEND The final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 will be The proposed new plan rules have been drafted to take account of current governance guidelines and the terms of the proposed new paid on 26 February 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 19 January 2018, subject to plan will remain broadly similar to those of the existing rules, such that awards will continue to be subject to three primary performance shareholder approval.
conditions which will be measured over athree year RESOLUTIONS 5 TO 15 RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS performance period.
Biographical details of all the directors standing for re-election The performance conditions will remain unchanged: Return on appear on pages 47 to 49 of the 2017 Annual Report.
Capital Employed ROCE, Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF and The Companys Articles of Association require one third of the Total Shareholder Return TSR.
However, it is proposed that the directors to retire by rotation each year and no director may serve relative weightings be amended from 1 3 for each performance for more than three years without being re-elected by shareholders.
element to 40% for ROCE, 40% for AFCF and 20% for However, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code TSR respectively.
the Code, all the directors will submit themselves for annual The maximum opportunity of 250% of base salary for the current re-election by shareholders.
Group Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for other current Having conducted an evaluation during the year, it is the view of the executive directors remains unchanged, although as part of Chairman that the performance of each of the directors continues to arebalanced overall remuneration package, as a result of the change be effective and that each director demonstrates commitment to the in executive leadership from 1 April 2018, the maximum opportunity role and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to will be increased to 300% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive the Company.
and 250% of base salary for other executive directors, subject to shareholder approval.
An award of up to 400% of base salary may RESOLUTIONS 16 AND 17 AUDITOR be made on appointment and or in exceptional circumstances.
The auditor is appointed at every general meeting at which Were such an award to be made, an explanation of why it was accountsare presented to shareholders.
The current appointment necessary to make the award would be given to shareholders.
ofKPMG LLP as the Companys auditor will end at the conclusion All awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
ofthe AGM and it has advised of its willingness to stand for reappointment.
In accordance with provisions of the Code, Shareholder approval is being sought for the 2018 LTIP rules it is bestrecommended practice for the Audit Committee to be at the AGM to ensure that the 2018 LTIP reflects the proposed new authorised to agree how much the auditor should be paid and Remuneration Policy.
The proposed new Directors Remuneration Resolution 17 grants this authority to the Audit Committee.
Policy, for which shareholder approval is being sought, is set out on pages 77 to 83.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 187 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED The main features of the plan are summarised in the Appendix to RESOLUTIONS 21 AND 22 DISAPPLICATION OF this Notice on pages 190 and 191.
PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS If the Company issues new shares, or sells treasury shares, for cash The Rules of the 2018 LTIP, together with the other documents for other than in connection with an employee share scheme, it must inspection, will be available for inspection during normal business first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing hours from the date of dispatch of this Notice until the date of the holdings.
In accordance with investor guidelines, approval is sought AGM Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted at the by the directors to issue alimited number of ordinary shares for cash registered office of the Company, Compass House, Guildford Street, without offering them to existing shareholders.
Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ and, in accordance with Listing Rule 13.8.
11 of the UK Listing Rules, at the offices of Freshfields The Pre-Emption Group which represents the Investment Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, London, EC4Y 1HS and Association and the Pension and Lifetime Savings Association will also be made available at the AGM for aperiod of 15 minutes published arevised statement of principles for the disapplication of prior to and during the continuance of the AGM.
pre-emption rights the Principles in 2015.
The Principles provide that ageneral authority for the disapplication of pre-emption rights RESOLUTION 20 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES over approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share The purpose of Resolution 20 is to renew the directors power to allot capital should be treated as routine.
This general authority, which shares.
Resolution 20.1 seeks to grant the directors authority to allot, the directors have sought and received in previous years, is dealt pursuant to Article 12 of the Companys Articles of Association and with under Resolution 21. section 551 of the CA 2006, relevant securities with amaximum nominal amount of 58,299,800.
This represents 527,600,000 Subject to the passing of Resolution 20, Resolution 21 seeks to 1 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each in the capital of the Company, replace the authority conferred on the directors at the 7 June 2017 which is approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary general meeting 2017 GM to allot ordinary shares, or grant rights share capital excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2017 to subscribe for, or convert securities into, ordinary shares or sell being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this treasury shares for cash other than pursuant to an employee equity Notice.
The Company currently holds 6,640,021 shares in treasury.
incentive share scheme up to an aggregate nominal value of The authority would, unless previously renewed, revoked or varied approximately 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital by shareholders, remain in force up to the conclusion of the 2019 without application of pre-emption rights pursuant to Article 13 of AGM of the Company or close of business on 7 May 2019, the Companys Articles of Association and section 561 of the whichever is earlier.
Other than in connection with arights, scrip dividend, or other similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 21 In accordance with the Investment Association Share Capital would be limited to amaximum nominal amount of 8,746,517.
Management Guidelines the Guidelines, Resolution 20.2 seeks to grant the directors authority to allot approximately afurther one third The Pre-Emption Group further provides that the Company may, as of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury aroutine, seek to disapply pre-emption rights over the equivalent of shares in connection with arights issue in favour of ordinary approximately an additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital shareholders with anominal value of up to 58,299,800 of the Company, so long as certain criteria are met.
1 representing 527,600,000 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each.
Subject to the passing of Resolution 20 and in addition to the Such additional authority will be valid until the conclusion of the authority granted by Resolution 21, Resolution 22 seeks to replace 2019 AGM.
the authority conferred on the directors at the 2017 GM to allot If the Company uses any of the additional one third authority ordinary shares, or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert securities permitted by the Guidelines, the Company will ensure that all into, ordinary shares or sell treasury shares for cash other than directors stand for re-election.
The Companys current practice is pursuant to an employee equity incentive share scheme up to an that all directors submit themselves for re-election each year in aggregate nominal value of approximately 5% of the Companys accordance with the Code, notwithstanding the provisions set out issued ordinary share capital without application of pre-emption inthe Guidelines.
rights pursuant to Article 13 of the Companys Articles of Association and section 561 of the CA 2006, provided that this authority will only The total authorisation sought by Resolution 20 is equal to be used for the purpose of: approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares as at 1 December 2017, i an acquisition: or being the last practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
ii aspecified capital investment in respect of which sufficient Resolutions 1 to 20 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and information regarding the effect of the investment on the require that more than half of the votes cast must be in favour of Company, the assets that are the subject of the investment and aresolution for it to be passed.
where appropriate the profits attributable to those assets is made available to shareholders to enable them to reach an assessment of the potential return on the investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or which hastaken place in the preceding six month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue.
188 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Other than in connection with arights, scrip dividend, or other No share repurchases were made from 15 June 2017 to similar issue, the authority contained in this Resolution 22 would 30 September 2017.
No further share repurchases have been belimited to amaximum nominal amount of 8,746,517. madebetween 1 October and 1 December 2017 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The directors 1 These together represent 158,308,000 ordinary shares of 11 20 consider it desirable for such general authority to be available in pence each in the capital of the Company, which is approximately order to maintain an efficient capital structure whilst at the same 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding time retaining the flexibility to fund any infill acquisitions.
treasury shares as at 1 December 2017 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice.
The authority would, As at 1 December 2017 being the last practicable date prior to 1 unless previously renewed, revoked or varied by shareholders, the publication of this Notice there were 1,589,736,625 11 20 1 expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held pence ordinary shares in issue and 6,640,021 11 20 pence ordinary in2019 or close of business on 7 May 2019, if earlier.
shares held in treasury for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations under employee equity incentive schemes.
Shares held Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee share in treasury are not eligible to participate in dividends and do not schemes and any share dividend alternatives, the directors have no carry any voting rights.
current plans to utilise the authorities sought by Resolutions 20, 21 and 22, although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to As at 1 December 2017 being the last practicable date prior retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of business tothepublication of this Notice, there were options to subscribe opportunities as they arise.
In addition, and in line with best practice, for ordinary shares issued by the Company outstanding over the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share approximately 7,300,000 shares which represent 0.46% of the capital on anon-pro rata basis over the last three years.
The limit Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares also applies to shares issued from treasury.
Arenewal of this at that date.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary authority will be proposed at each subsequent AGM and the shares was exercised in full, these options would represent directors confirm their intention to follow best practice set out in the 0.51%ofthe Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding Principles which provides that usage of this authority in excess of treasury shares.
7.5% of the Companys issued share capital in arolling three-year RESOLUTION 24 NOTICE OF MEETINGS OTHER THAN period would not take place without prior consultation ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS with shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the directors to call RESOLUTION 23 PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES general meetings, other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days This Resolution authorises the directors to make limited on market notice.
However, under the Companies Shareholders Rights purchases of the Companys ordinary shares.
The power is limited Regulations 2009 the Regulations, all general meetings must be to amaximum of 158,308,000 shares just under 10% of the issued held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to ashorter ordinary share capital as at 1 December 2017, being the last notice period, and the Company has met the requirements for practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice and details electronic voting under the Regulations.
This Resolution seeks to the minimum and maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of renew the authority granted by shareholders at last years AGM expenses.
The authority conferred by this Resolution will expire at which preserved the Companys ability to call general meetings, the conclusion of the Companys next AGM or 18 months from the other than AGMs, on 14 clear working days notice, such authority to passing of this Resolution, whichever is the earlier.
be effective until the Companys next AGM, when asimilar resolution will be proposed.
The directors confirm that the shorter notice period The CA 2006 permits the Company to hold shares repurchased as would not be used as amatter of routine, but only where flexibility is treasury shares.
Treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the used for the purpose of satisfying the Companys obligations in advantage of shareholders as awhole.
An electronic voting facility connection with employee equity incentive schemes.
The authority will be made available to all shareholders for any meeting held on to be sought by this Resolution is intended to apply equally to shares such notice.
to be held by the Company as treasury shares.
No dividends will be paid on shares which are held as treasury shares and no voting Resolutions 21 to 24 will be proposed as special resolutions and rights will be attached to them.
Shares held as treasury shares will require that at least three quarters of the votes cast must be in normally be used to satisfy the Companys obligations under the favour of aresolution for it to be passed.
Companys employee equity incentive schemes.
RECOMMENDATION From 1 October 2016 to 21 April 2017, the Company repurchased The directors consider that each of the Resolutions is in the best 5 and subsequently cancelled 1,340,344 ordinary shares of 10 8 interests of the Company and the shareholders as awhole and, pence for aconsideration of 19 million including expenses.
accordingly, recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of all Resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their 5 On 14 June 2017, 35 ordinary shares of 10 8 pence were own holdings.
repurchased for aconsideration of 582 including expenses inrelation to the Shareholder Return and associated Share Capital Consolidation.
Of the 35 shares repurchased 10 were placed into treasury and the remaining 25 shares were subsequently cancelled.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 189 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Timing and basis of awards APPENDIX Awards may be made within the period of 42 days commencing on SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL FEATURES OF THE COMPASS the date of approval of the 2018 LTIP by shareholders or the day GROUP PLC LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 2018 2018 LTIP following the announcement of the annual or halfyear results of the Eligibility Company in any year.
Awards may also be made at any other time The plan is discretionary and participation will be available to when, in the opinion of the Committee, the circumstances are fulltime employees of the Group, including executive directors, who considered to be exceptional so as to justify the making of an award.
are not within six months of their expected normal retirement date.
Awards will be made for nil cost and will be determined by reference Performance to aparticipants base salary and the Companys closing share price The vesting of shares other than awards made as a Deferred Bonus on the day preceding the date on which an award is made.
Benefits Award under each performance condition is independent.
under the 2018 LTIP will not be pensionable.
Therefore, the total vesting amount is based on the relevant percentage achievement for each performance measure.
No award may be made more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the 2018 LTIP and the Committee will formally review 40% of any LTIP will be based on Return on Capital Employed the 2018 LTIP by no later than February 2028.
ROCE, 40% on Adjusted Free Cash Flow AFCF and 20% on Total Shareholder Return TSR over athreeyear performance Limits of participation period.
The precise AFCF target for each award will be linked to the The annual limit for the value of shares over which an award may Groups wider business targets and will be set by the Remuneration be made under the 2018 LTIP is 250% of base salary for the Group Committee of the Board the Committee at the time of award based Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for all other executive on Group projections and market expectations.
Following the change in executive leadership from 1 April 2018, the maximum shares awarded will be 300% of base ROCE is calculated at the end of the three year performance period salary for the Group Chief Executive and 250% for other executive as net underlying operating profit after tax divided by 12 month directors.
An award of up to 400% of base salary may be made average capital employed.
If the ROCE target is satisfied, the on appointment and or in exceptional circumstances.
number of awards that vest will depend on the ROCE achieved over the performance period such that if the par ROCE target is achieved Dilution Limits 50% of the award based on ROCE will vest and if the maximum The 2018 LTIP will operate within the limits recommended by the ROCE target is achieved, 100% of the award based on ROCE vests.
Investment Association in respect of awards settled by the issue Awards will vest on a straight line basis between 0% and 100% of new shares or by the transfer of treasury shares.
where ROCE is between threshold and maximum performance.
In any 10year period, not more than 5% of the issued ordinary If the threshold AFCF cashflow target is satisfied, the number of share capital of the Company may be issued under the 2018 LTIP awards that vest will depend on the level of AFCF achieved over the and all other discretionary employee share plans, and not more than performance period such that if par cashflow target is achieved, 10% may be issued under the 2018 LTIP and all other employee 50% of the portion of the award based on AFCF will vest and if the share schemes operated by the Company.
These limits do not maximum cashflow target is achieved, 100% of the award based include awards which have lapsed.
Awards will vest on astraight line basis Vesting and lapse of awards between 0% and 100% where AFCF is between threshold and At the end of the threeyear performance period, once the maximum performance.
Committee has determined the extent to which awards under the TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid 2018 LTIP have vested, awards will be released within 45 days.
assuming reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market during the three year performance period.
100% of the portion of purchases, treasury shares or, if required for example, because of the award based on TSR will vest if performance is in the upper securities laws, in cash at the discretion of the Committee at any quartile and 25% of the award will vest if performance is at the time up to the release of an award.
If satisfaction is by way of cash, median.
Where performance is between the median and top such amount is determined by reference to the Companys share quartile, awards will vest on astraight line basis between the median price on the vesting date.
No shares will be released if the Companys TSR Early vesting performance is below the median.
The Committee must also be If aparticipant ceases to be an employee in certain circumstances, satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Company including injury, ill health, disability or redundancy, any unvested justifies the vesting of an award.
award will lapse unless the Committee otherwise determines at its Calculations of the achievement of the targets will be independently absolute discretion, in which case it shall permit awards to continue performed and approved by the Committee.
until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions.
If aparticipant ceases to be an employee by reason of contractual or agreed early retirement, any unvested award will continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
In the aforementioned circumstances, any shares vesting will be reduced on atime-apportioned basis unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
In the event of the death of 190 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION aparticipant during the performance period, such award will IMPORTANT INFORMATION immediately vest, subject to the satisfaction of the performance PROXIES conditions on that date and to reduction on atime-apportioned i Ashareholder entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may basis, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
appoint aproxy or proxies who need not be ashareholder of the Company to exercise all or any of his or her rights to attend, Dividends speak and vote at the AGM.
Where more than one proxy is The Committee may permit dividend equivalents to be accrued appointed, each proxy must be appointed for different shares.
on the shares earned from any awards.
Proxies may only be appointed by: Post-vest holding The Committee may impose aholding period of up to five years on completing and returning the Form of Proxy enclosed with participants whose awards have vested, net of any shares sold to this Notice to PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, meet personal tax and social security obligations of the director.
Kent BR3 4ZF Atwoyear post-vest holding period is expected to be imposed upon going to www.
com and following the instructions all awards made to executive directors as is the case under the for electronic submission provided there: or 2010 LTIP.
having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are Deferred Bonus Award auser of the CREST system including CREST personal The Committee may make an award to Participants linked to the members.
Please refer to the CREST manual on the Euroclear amount of a Participants bonus where the Participant has not met website www.
com CREST for further information the shareholding guidelines in force at the time that a bonus is paid.
Return of the Form of Proxy will not prevent ashareholder The number of shares subject to a Deferred Bonus Award will be from attending the Meeting and voting in person.
However, calculated using that part of a Participants annual bonus before the if you do attend the Meeting, any proxy appointment will be deduction of tax and social security contributions which the treated as revoked.
Participant has been required to receive in the form of a Deferred Bonus Award using the market value of the shares as determined by The electronic addresses provided in this Notice are provided the Committee.
Deferred Bonus Shares would vest after a three year solely for the purpose of enabling shareholders to register the period and would be subject to malus and clawback.
appointment of aproxy or proxies for the Meeting or to submit their voting directions electronically.
You may not use any Change of control electronic address provided in the Notice of this Meeting to In the event of achange of control of the Company, any unvested communicate with the Company for any purposes other than awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of the those expressly stated.
performance conditions as at the date of completion of the change of control and subject to reduction on atime-apportioned basis.
In the ii To be effective, the Form of Proxy must be completed in event of an internal reorganisation, an award will normally be released accordance with the instructions and received by the Companys and replaced by anew award which will continue to be governed registrar by 12 noon on Tuesday 6 February 2018. under the rules of the 2018 LTIP.
To appoint aproxy or to give an instruction to apreviously Recoupment appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message Malus and clawback can be applied to awards made under the must be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by 12 noon 2018 LTIP so that the provisions apply both before an award vests on Tuesday 6 February 2018.
Please note, however, that proxy and for aperiod of three years after vesting and apply in various messages cannot be sent through CREST on weekends, public circumstances, such as serious misconduct of aparticipant, including holidays or after 8.00pm on any other day.
For the purpose of where facts arise after termination of employment, where the remedies this deadline, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time include lapsing awards which have not vested and forfeiting of vested as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by awards with the right to reclaim amounts from the affected participant.
the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message.
CREST personal members or other Variation in share capital CREST sponsored members and those CREST members that The Committee may make such adjustments to awards as it have appointed voting service provider s should contact their considers appropriate in the event of any variation in the share CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with capital of the Company.
Amendments For further information on CREST procedures, limitations and The Committee may amend the 2018 LTIP as it considers system timings, please refer to the CREST manual.
However, shareholder approval is required to amend treat as invalid aproxy appointment sent by CREST in the any provision to the advantage of participants relating to eligibility, circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the dilution limits, the terms of vesting, the rights attaching to the shares Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
acquired under the 2018 LTIP, or to the adjustment of awards.
Shareholder approval is not required for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the 2018 LTIP or to take account of changes in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants or the Company.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 191 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED iii Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Right to ask questions Regulations 2001 and section 360B 2 of the CA 2006, the Under section 319A of the CA 2006, shareholders have the right to Company specifies that only those shareholders registered in the ask questions at the AGM relating to the business of the Meeting Register of Members of the Company as at close of business on and for these to be answered, unless such answer would interfere Tuesday 6 February 2018 or, in the event that the Meeting is unduly with the business of the Meeting, involve the disclosure of adjourned, in the Register of Members at the close of business confidential information, if the answer has already been published two days before the time of any adjourned meeting, shall be on the Companys website: or if it is not in the interests of the entitled to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number Company or the good order of the Meeting that the question of shares registered in their name at the relevant time.
to entries on the Register of Members after close of business on Website publication of audit concerns Tuesday 6 February 2018 or, in the event that the Meeting is Under section 527 of the CA 2006, shareholders have aright to adjourned, at close of business two days before the time of any request publication of any concerns that they propose to raise at adjourned meeting, shall be disregarded in determining the the AGM relating to the audit of the Companys Accounts including rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be Nominated Persons submitted to the Meeting or any circumstances connected to the Any person to whom acopy of this Notice is sent who is aperson Companys auditor who ceased to hold office since the last AGM.
nominated under section 146 of the CA 2006 to enjoy information The Company will publish the statement if sufficient requests have rights Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him been received in accordance with section 527 2 of the CA 2006 or her and the shareholder by whom he or she was nominated, have which, broadly, requires aminimum of 100 shareholders holding an aright to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as average of 905 ordinary shares each or shareholders holding at least aproxy for the AGM.
If aNominated Person has no such proxy 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he or she may, treasury shares to make the request.
The Company may not require under any such agreement, have aright to give instructions to the the members requesting any such website publication to pay its shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
expenses in complying with such request.
Where astatement ispublished, the Company will forward the statement to the The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the appointment of proxies in note i on page 191 above does not apply statement available on the website.
The business which may be to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in that note can only be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company exercised by shareholders of the Company.
hasbeen required under section 527 of the CA 2006 to publish Shareholder rights and AGM business onits website.
Under sections 338 and section 338A of the CA 2006, shareholders Documents available for inspection meeting the threshold requirements which, broadly, requires Copies of the service agreements of the executive directors, the aminimum of 100 shareholders holding an average of 905 ordinary letters of appointment of the non-executive directors, the directors shares each or shareholders holding at least 5% of the Companys deeds of indemnity, the Register of Directors Interests, the rules issued share capital, have the right to require the Company: i to ofthe 2018 LTIP for the purposes of identification initialled by give to shareholders of the Company entitled to receive notice of the theChairman and the Companys Articles of Association will be AGM, notice of aresolution which may properly be moved and is available for inspection during normal business hours from the intended to be moved, at the AGM: and or ii to include in the dateof dispatch of this Notice until the date of the AGM Saturdays, business to be dealt with at the AGM, any matter other than Sundays and public holidays excepted at the registered office of aproposed resolution which may be properly included in the theCompany, Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey business.
Aresolution may properly be moved or amatter may KT16 9BQ, and, in accordance with Listing Rule 13.8.
11 of the UK properly be included in the business unless: a in the case of Listing Rules, at the offices of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, aresolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by 65 Fleet Street, London, EC4Y 1HS, and will also be made available reason of inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys at the AGM for aperiod of 15 minutes prior to and during the constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory: or c it is frivolous or continuance of the AGM.
Such arequest may be in hard copy or electronic form and must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must be authorised by the person or persons making it, must be received by the Company not later than Wednesday 27 December 2017, being the date six clear weeks before the AGM, and in the case of amatter to be included in the business only must be accompanied by astatement setting out the grounds for the request.
192 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Total voting rights Questions As at 1 December 2017 being the last practicable date prior to All shareholders or their proxies will have the opportunity to ask thepublication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital questions at the AGM.
When invited by the Chairman, if you wish 1 comprised 1,583,096,604 ordinary shares of 11 20 pence each toask aquestion, please wait for aCompany representative to bring excluding treasury shares.
The holders of ordinary shares are you amicrophone.
It would be helpful if you could state your name entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company.
On before you ask your question.
Aquestion may not be answered at avote byshow of hands, every ordinary shareholder who is present the Meeting if it is not considered to be in the interests of the has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed Company or the good order of the Meeting or if it would involve by ashareholder entitled to vote has one vote.
On avote by poll, the disclosure of sensitive information.
The Chairman may also every ordinary shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has nominate arepresentative to answer aspecific question after the one vote for every ordinary share held.
It is proposed that all votes Meeting or refer the questioner to the Companys website.
ontheResolutions at the AGM will be taken by way of apoll.
Voting at the AGM The total voting rights in the Company as at 1 December 2017 The Company confirms that all Resolutions to be proposed at the were1,583,096,604 excluding treasury shares.
AGM will be put to the vote on apoll.
This will result in amore accurate reflection of the views of all of the Companys shareholders Information available on website by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including the votes of The following information is available on the Companys website shareholders who are unable to attend the Meeting but who have atwww.
com: appointed aproxy for the Meeting.
On apoll, each shareholder has i the matters set out in this Notice of Meeting one vote for each share held.
ii the total voting rights and number of shares of each class in All of the votes of the shareholders present will be counted, and respect of which shareholders are entitled to exercise voting added to those received by proxy, and the provisional final votes rights at the AGM willbe displayed at the Meeting.
iii shareholders rights to include business to be dealt with at The indicative voting results, which will include all votes cast for and theAGM against each Resolution at the Meeting, and all proxies lodged prior to the Meeting, will be displayed at the Meeting and the final results iv shareholders statements, resolutions and matters of business published on the Companys website, the London Stock Exchange received by the Company after 18 December 2017 and on the document storage system, Morningstar, as soon as Attending the AGM practicable after the Meeting.
The Company will also disclose the If you are coming to the AGM, please bring your attendance card number of votes withheld.
It authenticates your right to attend, speak and vote at the If you have already voted by proxy, you will still be able to vote at the AGM and will speed your admission.
You may also find it useful to Meeting and your vote on the day will replace your previously lodged bring this Notice of AGM and the Annual Report 2017 so that you proxy vote.
can refer to them at the Meeting.
All joint shareholders may attend and speak at the AGM.
However, only the first shareholder listed on Whomever you appoint as aproxy can vote or abstain from voting the Register of Members is entitled to vote.
At the discretion of the ashe or she decides on any other business which may validly come Company, and subject to sufficient seating capacity, ashareholder before the AGM.
This includes proxies appointed using the CREST may enter with one guest, provided that the shareholder and their service.
Details of how to complete the appointment of aproxy either guest register to enter the AGM at the same time.
electronically or on paper are given in the notes to this Notice.
The AGM The doors of the Live Room at Twickenham RFU Stadium will open at 10.30am and the AGM will start promptly at 12 noon.
Please see the map on page 194 for the location of Twickenham RFU Stadium.
Car parking is available for shareholders as indicated on the map.
For more information of how to get to the venue, go to http: www.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 193 TAYBEN AVENUE TALMA GARDENS EGERTON ROAD CHUDLEIGH ROAD PAL E S ON ROAD M R T WHITTON ROAD RUGBY ROAD WHITTON ROAD EAST STAND WEST STAND NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED Venue arrangements American Depositary Receipt enquiries For your personal safety and security, all hand baggage may be BNY Mellon maintains the Companys American Depositary subject to examination.
Acloakroom will be available to deposit Receipt register.
If you have any enquiries about your holding coats and bulky items.
of Compass American Depositary Shares, you should contact BNY Mellon, Shareowner Services, Computershare, Asound amplification hearing loop will be available in the P. O.
Box 30170, College Station TX 77842-3170, USA or meeting room.
Anyone accompanying ashareholder in Data protection statement need of assistance will be admitted to the AGM.
If any shareholder Your personal data includes all data provided by you, or on your with adisability has any questions regarding attendance at the AGM, behalf, which relates to you as ashareholder, including your name please contact the Group Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, and contact details, the votes you cast and your reference number Compass House, Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ by attributed to you by the Company.
The Company determines the 1 February 2018. purposes for which and the manner in which your personal data is Security staff will be on duty to assist shareholders.
The Company to be processed.
The Company and any third party to which it will not permit behaviour that may interfere with another persons discloses the data including the Companys registrar may process security, safety or the good order of the AGM.
your personal data for the purposes of compiling and updating the Companys records, fulfilling its legal obligations and processing the Please ensure that all electronic equipment including mobile shareholder rights you exercise.
phones is switched off throughout the AGM.
Published information Tea and coffee will be available before the Meeting and light If you would like to receive this Notice and or acopy of the Annual refreshments will be served afterwards.
Report 2017 in an appropriate alternative format, such as large Shareholder enquiries print, Braille or an audio version on CD, please contact the Group Link Asset Services maintain the Companys share register.
If you Company Secretariat at Compass Group PLC, Compass House, have any enquiries about the AGM or about your shareholding, you Guildford Street, Chertsey, Surrey KT16 9BQ.
should contact Link Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Our 2017 Annual Report and this Notice are available at Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
WHITTON define MOGDEN LANE CAR PARK ENTRANCE 1 THE LIVE ROOM FOR SHAREHOLDERS E CAR PARK ENTRANCE E P MAIN CAR PARK PARKING FOR SHAREHOLDERS RS RFU RUGBY STORE WEBB ELLIS M MARRIOTT HOTEL HOUSE TRADING ESTATE M P RS 1 CAR DEALERSHIP WHITTON STATION CENTRAL LONDON TWICKENHAM RICHMOND STATION 194 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2017 M25 M3 THE WEST WHITTON ROAD A316 CHERTSEY ROAD NORTH STAND SOUTH STAND DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLANDS RIVER
