OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Although tobacco volumes continue to decline year-on-year the value of the world tobacco market remains significant at around US$770 billion, with around a billion adult smokers consuming more than five trillion cigarettes a year.
OUR GEOGRAPHIC FOOTPRINT We apply stringent controls to our distributors and have a dedicated Our operations extend across a broad spread of markets, providing team of specialists leading our anti-illicit trade initiatives.
us with a balanced geographic footprint that supports our drive to We invest in systems with law enforcement agencies to improve deliver quality growth and sustainable shareholder returns.
the security and traceability of our products and share intelligence The macro-economic environment continues to impact consumer to help disrupt the supply of illegal cigarettes.
spending in some territories and political instability, including We also talk to governments to highlight the scale of the problem Brexit, creates further uncertainty.
and encourage them to recognise how high tobacco taxes and We are experienced at developing our business in challenging extreme regulation can fuel the growth of illicit trade.
conditions and continue to focus on realising quality growth opportunities to create further value for shareholders.
NEXT GENERATION PRODUCTS Next Generation Products NGP provide smokers with alternatives REGULATING TOBACCO to combustible tobacco and are broadly divided into two categories: The tobacco industry is one of the most highly regulated in e-vapour products and heated tobacco products.
E-vapour is by far the largest and most developed opportunity within Regulation is largely driven by three organisations: the World NGP.
It is estimated that sales of e-vapour products EVPs are Health Organization WHO, through the Framework Convention currently worth around $4 billion a year and could be worth more on Tobacco Control, the FCTC, the USAs Food and Drug than $30 billion by 2020.
Administration FDA and the European Commission through E-cigarettes are the most common EVPs and we are represented the European Union Tobacco Products Directive, the EUTPD.
in this category by blu, which has strong positions in the USA and During the year the FDA said it would begin public dialogue about UK the worlds two largest e-vapour markets and is managed by lowering nicotine levels in cigarettes as a way of transitioning our subsidiary Fontem Ventures.
smokers to alternative and less harmful sources of nicotine and Fontem Ventures has its own stringent marketing standards and we look forward to taking part in this dialogue.
ensures that all marketing activity is aimed solely at adult smokers We encourage regulators to draw on our expertise when they are who are seeking an alternative to tobacco.
EVPs are not for children considering regulation and oppose attempts to exclude tobacco and Fontem actively supports bans on the sale of EVPs to anyone companies from the ongoing debates about our industry and under the age of 18. our products.
A growing number of regulators and public health bodies have We support reasonable regulation, especially when it aims to reduce concluded that EVPs are safer than cigarettes and therefore have a illicit trade and prevent children smoking.
We also support role to play in reducing tobacco-related disease.
appropriate ingredients disclosure and ensure that our products The regulation of EVPs is evolving and we continue to engage with display written health warnings.
stakeholders to support the development of effective legislation.
We oppose disproportionate regulation, such as legislation that Heated tobacco is a considerably smaller category but one that is seeks to ban smoking in public or private places, plain packaging, growing, most notably in Japan.
We do not currently sell these pictorial health warnings and bans on the display of tobacco products but continue to monitor their development.
This includes products in retail outlets.
planning for the potential launch of our own heated tobacco We market and sell our products responsibly and adhere to products, should the category start showing broader signs of regulation at all times, wherever we do business.
Our International significant and sustainable growth.
Marketing Standard IMS sets out clear rules and principles to Unlike EVPs, heated tobacco products contain tobacco and in our ensure our advertising and marketing is only ever aimed at adult view should therefore be regulated and taxed as conventional smokers across the world.
The IMS applies to all our employees, as tobacco products.
well as the agencies who work with us, and is published in full on our corporate website www.
com ILLICIT TRADE Every year around 500 billion illegal cigarettes are consumed, depriving governments of around 30 billion in taxes.
The smuggling and counterfeiting of tobacco has considerably wider impacts: children can more easily obtain cigarettes, consumers are deprived of the quality they associate with their favourite brands and the livelihoods of independent retailers are threatened.
10 Imperial Brands PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2017
