Shareholder information Contacts Registered office Shareholder enquiries Chief Executive Officer ZPG Plc The Companys registrar is Equiniti.
They will be pleased The Cooperage to deal with any questions regarding your shareholding Alex Chesterman 5 Copper Row or dividends.
Please notify them of your change of address Chief Financial Officer London SE1 2LH or other personal information.
Their address details are: Andy Botha Equiniti Corporate advisers Company Secretary Aspect House Auditor Ned Staple Spencer Road Deloitte LLP Lancing Head of Communications West Sussex BN99 6DA Remuneration adviser Lawrence Hall  LLP Equiniti is a trading name of Equiniti Limited.
Head of Investor Relations Equiniti helpline: 0371 384 2030 calls cost 8 pence per Brokers Rachael Malcolm minute plus network extras Credit Suisse Securities Europe Website Limited Overseas: 44 121 415 7047 www.
co. uk Jefferies International Limited Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
Solicitor Freshfields Bruckhaus Shareholders are able to manage their shareholding online and facilities including electronic communications, Deringer LLP account enquiries, amendment of address and dividend Registrar mandate instructions.
Equiniti Limited Financial calendar 2018 2017 full-year results 29 November 2017 Ex-dividend date for final dividend 7 December 2017 Record date for final dividend 8 December 2017 Annual General Meeting 30 January 2018 Payment date for final dividend 8 February 2018 Half-year results May 2018 Payment date for interim dividend June 2018 152 ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 Note on forward-looking statements This report includes statements related to our future business, As such, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown financial performance and future events or developments that risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual may constitute forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking results, performance or developments to differ materially from statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology, those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, plans, These factors include, but are not limited to: projects, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each a change in the competition within the industry in which case, their negative, or other variations or comparable terminology.
we operate: These forward-looking statements include matters that are not historical facts.
They appear throughout this report and include a change, due to various factors which may include the statements relating to our beliefs, intentions or current expectations macroeconomic conditions in which we operate, in the concerning a number of matters including our results of liquidity, level of transactions in the UK residential property market: the effect of our financial performance on our share price, financial a change in technological developments: condition, prospects, growth and expansion, strategies and the industry in which we operate.
All forward-looking statements are the loss of any of our important commercial relationships: and based upon information available to us on the date of this Annual any increase in litigation or disputes.
While we believe that the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we caution that it is very difficult to predict the impact We caution that the foregoing list of factors may not contain all of of known or unknown factors or to anticipate all factors that could the material factors that are important to you and you should not affect our actual results.
place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report.
We undertake no obligation, and are not under any obligation, to update or keep current the information contained in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
ZPG Plcs commitment to environmental issues is reflected in this Annual Report which has been printed on Core silk which is an FSC certified paper.
This document was printed by ParkCommunications using their environmental print technology, whichminimises the impact of printing on the environment.
Vegetable based inks have been used and 99% of all dry waste associated with this production is diverted fromlandfill.
ZPG Plc Annual Report 2017 ZPG Plc The Cooperage 5 Copper Row London SE1 2LH www.
