Shareholder information Explanatory notes Resolution 1 Annual Report and Accounts The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors of a public company to lay its Annual Report and Accounts before the company in general meeting, giving shareholders the opportunity to ask questions on the contents.
The Annual Report and Accounts comprises the audited financial statements, the Auditors report, the Strategic report, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report.
In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company proposes, as an Ordinary Resolution, a resolution on its Annual Report and Accounts.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors remuneration report In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Company proposes an Ordinary Resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report for the financial year ended 30 September 2017.
The Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 54 to 66 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The vote on this resolution is advisory only and the Directors entitlement to remuneration is not conditional on its being passed.
Resolution 3 Declaration of final dividend A final dividend of 41.60p per ordinary share has been recommended by the Directors for the year ended 30 September 2017.
In accordance with the requirements of HM Revenue & Customs, all dividends are declared and paid net of income tax at the standard rate.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 16 February 2018 to shareholders on the register at 6pm on 2 February 2018.
Resolution 4 Declaration of special dividend In addition to the final dividend, the Board is proposing the payment of a special dividend of 68.00p per ordinary share.
If approved, the special dividend will be paid on 16 February 2018 to shareholders on the register at 6pm on 2 February 2018.
Resolutions 5 to 14 Re-election and election of Directors In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors shall retire from office at the AGM.
Mr Patrick fide Smedt, anon-executive Director, and Mr David Hummel, an executive Director, are both retiring from the Board and therefore are not standing forre-election.
The Chairman confirms that, following formal evaluation as referred to on pages 46 and 47 of the Annual Report and Accounts, each Director standing for re-election continues to contribute effectively to the Board and to demonstrate commitment to the role including commitment of time for Board and Board Committee meetings.
The Companys Articles of Association state that any director appointed by the Board during the year must stand at the next AGM following appointment.
Mr Jakob Sigurdsson was appointed as an executive Director on 1 October 2017 and now stands for election by shareholders.
It is proposed that Ms Janet Ashdown and Mr Brendan Connolly are appointed to the Board as non-executive Directors and therefore offer themselves for election at the AGM.
Each of Resolutions 5 to 14 shall be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution.
The biographical details, skills and experience of each Director standing for re-election or election are set out below.
Mr Larry Pentz, Chairman Larry Pentz was appointed to the Board in 2008 and became Chairman in 2014.
Larry is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Larry has over 30 years service within multinational corporations in a variety of operational and general management positions, with extensive experience in developing strategy for and successfully leading international growth businesses.
Larry has been instrumental in the acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst and chemical companies for Johnson Matthey Plc, and was formerly executive director responsible for Emission Control Technologies of Johnson Matthey Plc.
Larry retired as an executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc during 2016 where he held board-level responsibility for Johnson Mattheys Process Technologies and Fine Chemicals divisions.
Larry is Non-Executive Chairman of Scapa Group plc.
Dr Pamela Kirby, Senior Independent Director Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board in2011 and as Senior Independent Director inNovember 2014.
Pamela has detailed knowledge of the international pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corp. based in North Carolina, USA.
Pamela has also held a number of other senior positions in the international pharmaceutical industry including atAstraZeneca PLC, where she was a regional director, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, where she was director of strategic marketing and business development.
She was previously non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Pamela is a non-executive director of DCC plc, Hikma Pharmaceuticals plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Kings Health Partnership and serves on the supervisory board of Akzo Nobel.
Mr Andrew Dougal, Non-executive Director Andrew Dougal was appointed to the Board in March 2015 and was appointed Audit Committee Chairman effective from October 2015.
Andrew is a chartered accountant and brings a wealth of experience to the Board, from a lengthy executive and non-executive career of over 35 years in industrial, manufacturing and services companies.
Andrew is a non-executive director and Chair ofthe Audit Committee at Carillion plc.
He was previously a Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chair of Taylor Woodrow Plc, TaylorWimpey Plc and Creston Plc and a Non-Executive Director of BPB Plc and Premier Farnell plc.
Formerly, Andrew served as Chief Executive of Hanson plc, the international building materials group, following its demerger from Hanson, the Anglo-American conglomerate, where he was Finance Director, having previously held a number of senior roles in general management and finance.
Andrew is a member of the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland ICAS.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 111 Shareholder information Explanatory notes continued Resolutions 5 to 14 Re-election and election of Directors continued Ms Jane Toogood, Non-executive Director Jane Toogood was appointed to the Board in September 2015.
Jane has a wealth of experience across a number of business management, senior commercial and business development roles within the global chemical industry, including Borealis, ICI and Uniqema, and also held a Non-Executive Director role with NHS Harrogate and District Foundation Trust.
Jane holds an MA in natural sciences chemistry from the University of Oxford.
Jane is the Sector Chief Executive, Efficient Natural Resources at Johnson Matthey Plc.
Mr Tim Cooper, Executive Director Tim Cooper was appointed as an executive director to the Board in October 2012.
Timjoined Victrex in January 2010 as Managing Director of Victrex Polymer Solutions.
Tim has over 30 years of international business management and commercial experience, having held senior leadership positions in a number of industries.
Prior to joining the Victrex business, Tim was with Umeco Plc, initially as Managing Director of Aerovac Systems Ltd, but later becoming Group Managing Director of Umeco Composites Process Materials.
He has been Managing Director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery Berkel Ltd, having developed his international career with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Ms Louisa Burdett, Group Finance Director Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group FinanceDirector in February 2014.
Louisa also has overall responsibility for the Group Legal and Company Secretarial functions, as well as IT.
Louisa formerly held the position of Chief Financial Officer at Optos plc.
Prior to this, Louisa was Chief Financial Officer at the Financial Times Group from 2008 to 2012.
Louisa has also held roles at Chep Europe, a division of Brambles Ltd, the Australian listed pallet distribution company, GE Healthcare and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisa has also worked as an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank andspent four years at KPMG in London.
She has a first class degree in biochemistry from Imperial College London and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Louisa is Chairman of the Currency Committee.
Louisa is a Non-Executive Directorof Electrocomponents plc where she is Chair of the Audit Committee and amember of its Nomination andRemuneration Committees.
Dr Martin Court, Executive Director Martin Court was appointed to the Board as an executive director in April 2015.
Martin joined Victrex in February 2013 as Managing Director of Invibio, Victrexs medical business.
Martin has significant proven international experience in the medical and high performance materials and chemicals industries, including with Cytec Industries, and in a number of senior roles atboth ICI and UCB.
He is an INSEAD alumni and holds a doctorate in the field of surface chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng degree in mineral technology from Imperial College of Science and Technology.
Mr Jakob Sigurdsson, Executive Director Jakob Sigurdsson was appointed to the Board in October 2017.
Jakob has more than 20 years experience in large multinational companies, both listed and private, including nine years with Rohm & Haas now part of Dow Chemical in the US, as well as Chief Executive of food manufacturer Alfesca in Europe and as ChiefExecutive of Promens.
His executive responsibilities have spanned marketing, supply chain, business development, strategy and M&A, with particular emphasis on growth in new or developing markets.
Between September 2016 and June 2017, Jakob was Chief Executive Officer of VS, the largest Icelandic insurance and re-insurance company.
Jakob holds a BSc in Chemistry from the University of Iceland and an MBA from Northwestern University in the US.
Ms Janet Ashdown, Non-executive Director Janet Ashdown is proposed for election as a non-executive director.
Janet has over 30 years experience of the international energy sector in a varietyof senior executive roles at BP plc, most recently as Director, BP Oil UK Limited, and Head of UK Retail and Commercial Fuels.
Janetiscurrently Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director of Marshalls plc and is chair of its remuneration committee.
Janetis also a Non-Executive Director of SIG Plc and a member of its Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Governance Committees.
Janetwas appointed to the Board of the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority in 2015.
Between September 2013 and April 2017, Janetserved as a Non-Executive Director of Coventry Building Society and a member of its Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Brendan Connolly, Non-executive Director Brendan Connolly is proposed for election as a non-executive director.
Brendan has over 35 years experience in the international oil and gas industry serving in a number of senior executive roles.
Until June 2013, Brendan was a senior executive at Intertek Group plc and had previously been chief executive officer of Moody International which was acquired by Intertek in 2011.
Prior to Moody, he was managing director of Atos Origin UK, and spent more than 25 years of his career with Schlumberger in senior international roles over three continents.
Brendan is a non-executive director and Senior Independent Director of Synthomer plc, in addition to being chairman of their Remuneration Committee and a member of their Audit and Nomination Committees.
Brendan is also chairman of two private equity backed companies.
Resolution 15 Increase in the maximum number of Directors permitted Subject to the re-election and election of Directors under Resolutions 5 to 14, the Company will have ten Directors following the AGM.
This is the current maximum number permitted under the Companys Articles of Association.
Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval to increase this number from ten to twelve to give the Company flexibility should it decide to appoint additional directors.
112 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Resolutions 16 and 17 Appointment of auditor auditors remuneration At each meeting at which the Annual Report and Accounts are laid, the Company is required to appoint an auditor to serve until the nextsuch meeting.
As reported in the 2016 Annual Report, the Board agreed to tender the external audit contract for the Company during2017.
Following a detailed tender process, which is explained on pages 52 and 53 of the 2017 Annual Report, the Board is recommending toshareholders that  LLP PwC be appointed as auditor to the Company for the financial year ending 30September 2018.
It is proposed that PwC will succeed KPMG LLP, which has acted as auditor since 1993.
Given the length of their tenure and having regard to regulatory requirements, it was decided that KPMG LLP would not participate in the tender process.
PwC haveindicated their willingness to be appointed as the Companys auditor.
Accordingly, Resolution 16 proposes that PwC be appointed auditor of the Company.
As required by company law, KPMG LLP has given a statement of reasons in connection with their ceasing to hold office as auditor, which is set out on page 115 of the annual report.
Resolution 17 is an Ordinary Resolution giving the Directors discretion to determine the remuneration of PwC.
Resolution 18 Political donations The Companies Act 2006 requires companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make political donations exceeding 5,000 in aggregate in any twelve-month period to political parties, other political organisations or independent election candidates or incur political expenditure.
The definitions of political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and political expenditure used in the Companies Act 2006 are very broad and, as a result, a number of normal business activities or business matters affecting the Company that would not be thought to be political donations or political expenditure in the usual sense may qualify as a donation to a political party, political organisation or independent election candidate or otherwise be political expenditure.
Such activities are not designed to support any political party, political organisation or independent election candidate nor to influence public support for a particular party, organisation or candidate.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur political expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words and the Directors have no intention of using the authority for that purpose.
To avoid any possibility of inadvertently contravening the Companies Act 2006, the Directors consider that it would be prudent to follow the procedures specified in the Companies Act 2006 to obtain shareholder approval for the Company and its subsidiaries to, in aggregate: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 12,500 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 12,500 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 12,500 in total, in each case during the period up to the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company in 2019.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the resolution extends not only to the Company but also covers all companies which are subsidiaries of the Company at any time the authority is in place.
The Companys policy remains that it does not, directly or through any subsidiary, make what are commonly regarded as donations to any political party, organisation or candidate, and the authority being requested from shareholders is not designed to change this policy.
The authority is sought as a precaution to ensure that the Companys normal business activities are within the Companies Act 2006.
Resolution 19 Authority to allot shares The authority of shareholders is required to enable Directors to allot shares.
The authority conferred on the Directors at the 2017 AGM toallot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares in the Company expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Accordingly, in line with the Companys usual procedure, which is also standard practice amongst other public companies, this Ordinary Resolution seeks authority for the Directors to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any securities into shares in the Company until the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or 9 May 2019, if sooner.
In accordance with guidance issued by The Investment Association, the proposed authority will allow the Directors to allot ordinary shares in the Company Ordinary Shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the existing issued share capital as at 4 December 2017 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, plus, in the case of a rights issue only, a further amount up to an additional maximum nominal amount of approximately but not exceeding one-third of the Companys existing issued share capital.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority.
The Company held no treasury shares as at 4 December 2017.
Resolutions 20 and 21 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existingshareholders Under the Companies Act 2006, when shares are issued for cash, they normally have to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their current shareholding.
Resolution 20 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash and sell treasury shares: i in connection with a rights issue, open offer or other pre-emptive offer: or ii otherwise up to a nominal amount of 42,937, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 4 December 2017 the latest practicable date before the publication of this Notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings in order to take advantage of opportunities as and when they arise.
The Directors have no current intention of exercising this authority and confirm their intention that not more than 7.5% of the issued ordinary share capital will be allotted or treasury shares sold on a non-pre-emptive basis in any rolling three year period, other than with prior consultation with shareholders or in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment as referred to below.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 113 Shareholder information Explanatory notes continued Resolutions 20 and 21 Permission to allot a limited number of shares other than to existingshareholders continued Resolution 21 is in addition to Resolution 20.
As supported by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, as updated in March2015, Resolution 21 will enable the Directors to allot shares for cash or sell shares out of treasury up to a further nominal amount of42,937, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 4 December 2017 the latest practicable date before the publication ofthis Notice, other than to existing shareholders without first having to offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Inrespect of the authority under Resolution 21, the Board confirms that it will only allot shares or sell shares out of treasury pursuant to this authority where the relevant acquisition or specified capital investment is announced contemporaneously with theallotment, or has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the allotment.
If this authority is used, the Company will publish details of the placing in its next Annual Report and Accounts.
The authorities under Resolutions 20 and 21 will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 9May 2019, if sooner.
These resolutions will be proposed as Special Resolutions, which require a 75% majority of the votes to be cast in favour.
Resolution 22 Authority to purchase own shares In certain circumstances, it might be advantageous to the Company to purchase its own shares.
Resolution 22 specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 4 December 2017 thelatest practicable date before the publication of this Notice and the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Directors intend to use the authority only if, in light of market conditions prevailing at the time, they believe that the effect of such purchase would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders generally.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the Company will be taken into account in reaching such a decision.
Any shares purchased in this way will either be cancelled and the number of shares in issue will be reduced accordingly, or be held as treasury shares.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, resold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
The Company currently has no Ordinary Shares in treasury.
As at 4 December 2017, options over a total of 1,353,906 Ordinary Shares were outstanding and not exercised.
That number of Ordinary Shares represents 1.58% of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital at 4 December 2017.
It would represent 1.75% of the issued Ordinary Share capital at that date if the authority to buy the Companys own shares given at the previous AGM and the authority now being sought by Resolution 22 were to be fully used.
The authority will lapse at the earlier of the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company or 9 May 2019, if sooner.
Resolution 23 Authority to hold general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 clear days notice This Special Resolution renews an authority given at last years annual general meeting and is required as a result of section 307A of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an annual general meeting on not less than 14clear days notice and would like to maintain this ability.
In order to do so, the Companys shareholders must approve the calling of suchmeetings on not less than 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next annual general meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company notes the notice period provision in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code which recommends at least 14 working days notice to be given for all general meetings other than annual general meetings.
Insofar as it is appropriate to do so, the Company intends to comply with this code provision in the same way that it currently complies with the 20 working days notice provision applicable to annual general meetings.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
Recommendation The Directors consider that all the proposed resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and of its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of them.
114 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Victrex plc Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD 5 December 2017 Dear Sir Statement to Victrex plc no.
2793780 on ceasing to hold office as auditors pursuant to section 519 of the Companies Act 2006 The reason connected with our ceasing to hold office is due to the mandatory rotation requirements of the EU Audit Regulation.
As a result, Victrex plc the Company held a competitive tender for the statutory audit in which we were not invited to participate.
There are no reasons or other matters connected with our ceasing to hold office as auditors of the Company that we consider need to be brought to the attention of the Companys members or creditors.
Yours faithfully, KPMG LLP Audit registration number: 9188307 Audit registration address: 15 Canada Square Canary Wharf, London E14 5GL Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 115
