Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the twenty fifth Annual General Meeting AGM of Victrex plc the Company will be held at 10am on 9February 2018, at J. P. Morgan, 1 John Carpenter Street, London EC4Y 0JP, to transact the business set out below.
Resolutions 1 to 19 willbe proposed as Ordinary Resolutions and Resolutions 20 to 23 will be proposed as Special Resolutions.
To receive the Companys audited financial statements and the Auditors and Directors reports for the year ended 30 September 2017.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report in the form set out in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30September 2017.
To declare a final dividend of 41.60p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of par value 1p each in respect of the year ended 30September 2017.
To declare a special dividend of 68.00p per share on the Companys ordinary shares of par value 1p each.
To re-elect Mr L C Pentz as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr P J Kirby as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr A J H Dougal as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms J E Toogood as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Mr T J Cooper as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Ms L S Burdett as a Director of the Company.
To re-elect Dr M L Court as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr J O Sigurdsson as a Director of the Company.
To elect Ms J E Ashdown as a Director of the Company.
To elect Mr B W D Connolly as a Director of the Company.
That the maximum number of Directors permitted under article 75 of the Companys Articles of Association be increased from tentotwelve.
To appoint  LLP as auditor of the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
That, in accordance with sections 366 and 367 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company and all companies that are subsidiaries ofthe Company at any time during the period for which the resolution has effect, be and are hereby authorised, in aggregate, during the period beginning with the date of the passing of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the annual general meeting of theCompany in 2019 unless such authority is previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in a general meeting, to: i make political donations to political parties and or independent election candidates not exceeding 12,500 in total: ii make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 12,500 in total: and iii incur political expenditure not exceeding 12,500 in total, provided that the authorised sums referred to in paragraphs i, ii and iii above may be comprised of one or more amounts in different currencies which, for the purposes of calculating that authorised sum, shall be converted into Pounds Sterling at such rate asthe Board in its absolute discretion may determine to be appropriate.
For the purposes of this resolution the terms political donation, political parties, independent election candidates, political organisations and political expenditure shall have the meanings given by sections 363 to 365 of the Companies Act 2006.
That the Board be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company: a up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 286,249: and b c omprising equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 up to a further maximum aggregate nominal amount of 286,249 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue: i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, and so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter.
Such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 9May 2019 but, in each case, so that the Company may make offers and enter into agreements during the relevant period which would, or might, require shares to be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares to be granted after the authority expires and the Board may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had not expired.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 107 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Special Resolutions 20.
That, conditional upon Resolution 19 in this Notice of Annual General Meeting being passed, the Board be and is hereby given power to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale, such power to be limited: a t o the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury shares in connection with an offer of, or invitation to apply for, equity securities but, in the case of the authority granted under paragraph b of Resolution 19, by way of a rights issue only : i to ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly as may be practicable to their existing holdings: and ii to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities or as the Board otherwise considers necessary, a nd so that the Board may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and b t o the allotment otherwise than under paragraph a above of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 42,937.
Su ch power to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 9 May 2019, save thatthe Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ceases to have effect and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ceased to have effect.
That, conditional upon Resolution 19 in this Notice of Annual General Meeting being passed, the Board be and is hereby given power in addition to any authority granted under Resolution 20 to allot equity securities as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given by that resolution or by way of a sale of treasury shares, as if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to such allotment or sale, such power to be: a limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 42,937: and b u sed only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Board determines to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice.
S uch power to apply until the end of the Companys next annual general meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 9 May 2019, save that the Company may make offers, and enter into agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted after the power ceases to have effect and the Board may allot equity securities under any such offer or agreement as if the power had not ceased to have effect.
T hat the Company be and is hereby authorised generally and unconditionally pursuant to section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 to make one or more market purchases as defined in section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of its ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares, such power to be limited: a to a maximum aggregate number of 8,587,471 Ordinary Shares: b b y the condition that the maximum price, exclusive of expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share contracted to be purchased on any day shall be the higher of: i a n amount equal to 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotation for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Ordinary Share is contracted to be purchased: and ii t he higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent purchase bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out: and c by the condition that the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 1p exclusive of expenses.
Such authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Companys next annual general meeting or, if earlier, at the close of business on 9May 2019 but so that the Company may before such authority expires enter into a new contract under which a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be completed or executed wholly or partly after the authority expires and the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares in pursuance of such contract as if the authority had not expired.
That a general meeting of the Company, other than an annual general meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
By order of the Board Brett Gladden Group Company Secretary 5 December 2017 Registered Office: Victrex Technology Centre Hillhouse International Thornton Cleveleys Lancashire FY5 4QD Registered in England and Wales 2793780 108 Victrex plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Notes 1.
Shareholders who are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the AGM.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members of the Company at 6.30pm on 7 February 2018 or, in the event of any adjournment, 6.30pm on the day two days prior to the adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the AGM.
A hard copy form of proxy Form of Proxy which may be used to appoint a proxy and give instructions accompanies this AGM Notice.
To be valid, a Form of Proxy must be delivered to the Companys Registrars, Equiniti at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, so as to be received by no later than 10am on 7 February 2018.
Alternatively, shareholders may appoint a proxy online by following the instructions in note 4 below.
Shareholders who hold their shares in uncertificated form may also use the CREST voting service to appoint a proxy electronically as explained in notes 5 to 7 below.
The return of a completed Form of Proxy, electronic proxy appointment instruction or any CREST Proxy Instruction will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Voting at the AGM itself will be on a show of hands, unless a valid demand for one or more resolutions to be conducted on a poll is made in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Shareholders who prefer to register the appointment of their proxy electronically via the internet can do so through Equinitis website at www.
Full details of the procedure are given on the website.
The Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Number printed on the Form of Proxy will be required in order to use this electronic proxy appointment system.
Alternatively, members who have already registered with Equinitis online portfolio service, Shareview, can appoint their proxy electronically by logging onto their portfolio at www.
co. uk and clicking on the Vote Online link.
The on-screen instructions give details of how to complete the proxy appointment process.
A proxy appointment made electronically will not be valid if sent to any address other than those provided or if received after 10am on 7 February 2018.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual available via www.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent Equiniti ID RA19 by 10am on 7 February 2018.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in note 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
Such rights can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
As at 4 December 2017 being the last business day prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 85,874,711 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 4 December 2017 were 85,874,711.
There were no shares in treasury as at that date.
Annual Report 2017 Victrex plc 109 Shareholder information Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes continued 10.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: a t he audit of the Companys financial statements including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b a ny circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on a website under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on a website.
Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions relating to the business of the meeting.
In accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006 and subject to some exceptions, the Company must cause any such questions to be answered.
A c opy of this Notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its power as a member provided that they do so in relation to the same shares.
Representatives of shareholders that are corporations will have to produce evidence of their proper appointment when attending the AGM.
Please contact our Registrar if you need any further guidance on this.
Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the meeting should use the following means of communication no other methods of communication will be accepted : email the Group Company Secretory at cosec@victrex.
You may not use any electronic address provided in either this Notice of AGM or any related documents including the Form of Proxy to communicate with the Company for any purpose other than those expressly stated.
Copies of the following documents will be available for inspection during normal business hours on Monday to Friday excluding bank holidays at the Registered Office of the Company from the date of this Notice of AGM until the close of the AGM and at the meeting location from at least 15 minutes before the meeting until it ends: u the executive Directors service contracts: u the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors: and u the Directors Deeds of Indemnity.
