D2 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS For the year ended 30 September 2017 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Paragon Banking Group PLC is a company domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006 with company number 2336032.
It adopted its present name on 21 September 2017 and was previously named The Paragon Group of Companies PLC.
The address of the registered office is 51 Homer Road, Solihull, West Midlands, B91 3QJ.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic Report in Section A2.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in which the Group operates.
CHANGE OF PRESENTATION During September 2017, the Group underwent an internal reorganisation, as a result of which the majority of the Groups activity is now undertaken through its banking subsidiary, Paragon Bank PLC the Bank and other entities falling within the scope of banking regulation.
Following this reorganisation, the directors concluded that the financial statements of the Group should be presented in a way which enhances comparability with other banking entities.
The changes made affect presentation only and the Groups accounting policies and its reported assets, liabilities, equity, profits and cash flows in preceding years remain as previously disclosed.
The most significant change is the reordering of the balance sheets to reflect liquidity, an approach taken by most banks in the UK.
The new Group structure also affects the segments reported by the Group under International Financial Reporting Standard 8 Operating Segments and in these financial statements new segments, reflecting the new organisational structure, have been adopted, as described in note 14.
As required by IFRS 8, comparative disclosures on the basis of the new segments have been provided.
ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED REPORTING STANDARDS In the preparation of these financial statements no new reporting standards are being applied for the first time.
a Standards not yet adopted At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following International Financial Reporting Standards and Interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IAS 7 Disclosure initiative amendments Other standards and interpretations in issue but not effective do not address matters relevant to the Groups accounting and reporting.
IFRS 9 IFRS 9 largely replaces the requirements of the existing financial instruments standard, IAS 39: Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
It addresses the areas of recognition, bases of valuation, income recognition methods, impairment and hedging for financial instruments and will become the standard governing the Groups accounting for Loans to Customers, Borrowings and Derivative Financial Assets and Liabilities.
Only the rules relating to the Groups portfolio hedging arrangements will remain subject to IAS 39.
This standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019 and work is well progressed to assess its impact and develop new procedures.
Many of the current rules are repeated in broadly similar form in the new standard.
In particular, the amortised cost basis of valuation and the related EIR method of income recognition remain largely unchanged.
The greatest impact from the new standard is likely to be on impairment provisions, but the requirements addressing classification and measurement and hedging also change.
PAGE 142 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Impairment of financial assets IFRS 9 changes the basis of recognition of impairment of financial assets from an incurred loss to an expected credit loss ECL approach for financial assets held at amortised cost.
This introduces a number of new concepts and changes to the approach to provisioning set out in IAS 39.
ECLs are based on an assessment of the probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and exposure at default EAD, discounted to give a net present value.
The estimation of ECL should be unbiased and probability weighted, considering all reasonable and supportable information, including forward looking economic assumptions and a range of possible outcomes.
This has the effect of recognising losses on loans earlier than at present, as IAS 39 requires provisions to be made only at the point where there is objective evidence of credit impairment.
IFRS 9 divides loans into three classes: those where there has been no significant increase in credit risk since advance: those where there has been a significant increase in credit risk: and loans which are impaired.
It is an important feature of the standard that increase in credit risk is not defined solely by the performance of the account, but also by other information available about the customer, such as credit bureau information.
On initial recognition, and for assets where there has not been a significant increase in credit risk since the date of advance, provisions will be made to the level of expected credit default events within the next year.
These accounts would be largely unprovided for under IAS 39, although some cases with adverse qualitative indicators might attract an emergence provision Where a loan has experienced a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, even though this may not lead to a conclusion that the loan is credit impaired, provisions will be made based on the expected credit losses over the full life of the loan.
This is likely to lead to an increase in provision in general, though the emergence provision would also address some of this risk For credit impaired assets, provisions will be made on the basis of lifetime expected credit losses, taking account of forward looking economic assumptions and a range of possible outcomes.
Under IAS 39 provisions are based on the assets carrying value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows.
IAS 39 does not explicitly take account of a range of possible economic outcomes including forecasts of any downturn in the economic cycle.
However, it is likely that, subject to conditions at the time of implementation, provisions for loans in this condition will be broadly similar to their existing values For assets which were credit impaired at origination or acquisition, such as certain of the Groups acquired assets, the required treatment is largely identical under IAS 39 and IFRS 9 Overall, the introduction of IFRS 9 is likely to result in companies carrying a larger provision balance and recognising losses earlier.
However, the profit and loss effect is broadly one of timing, with the same amount of provision per case ultimately charged to profit.
Impairment implementation During the year, the Group has continued its project to ensure it will be able to comply with the new requirements.
The project includes finance, analysis and credit risk personnel, is sponsored by the Chief Financial Officer and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
Model builds are subject to the oversight of the Model Risk Committee.
Project workflows have included analysis of historic internal and external credit performance metrics, prototype model design and consideration of how external economic factors should affect IFRS 9 impairments.
External consultants and the Groups auditors have been engaged with as appropriate, with initial work focussing on the Groups most significant asset classes.
The project team have also engaged with external initiatives to gauge best practice and have also engaged in dialogue with regulators.
Base models have been completed for the Groups most material asset classes and indicative outputs are being provided to Credit Committee on a business-as-usual basis.
Work will continue to finalise these models and complete work on models for other, less material, asset classes in the year.
Work will continue on the project through the year ending 30 September 2018 and a further report on progress will be given in that years half-year report.
The Group is not obliged to restate comparatives on the initial adoption of IFRS 9 but will provide detailed transitional disclosures.
The communication strategy for this information, including the timing of publication, will be determined over the next financial year, based on emerging best practice and consultation with analysts, shareholders and advisers.
The Group is also considering emerging practice with regards to the transitional arrangements on capital currently proposed by the PRA and will determine its approach during the coming year.
Classification and measurement The classification of financial assets under IFRS 9 is based on the objectives of a companys business model and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruments.
Financial assets are classified as held at amortised cost, at fair value through other comprehensive income, or at fair value through profit or loss.
The changes from the classification under IAS 39 are not expected to be significant for the Group.
Hedge accounting The hedge accounting requirements of the new standard are designed to create a stronger link with financial risk management, however this does not cover macro hedge accounting.
A separate financial reporting standard is to be developed in this area.
IFRS 9 allows the option to continue to apply the existing hedge accounting requirements of IAS 39 until this is implemented.
As the Groups hedging arrangements are either macro hedges, which are unaffected by the new standard or bespoke cash flow hedges which would not be affected by the change of standard, the Group has decided to defer application of these rules until the full new hedge accounting regime is in place.
PAGE 143 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts IFRS 15 IFRS 15 will replace the standards currently governing the recognition of that part of the Groups income which does not derive directly from financial assets, that is the amounts shown as maintenance income in note 18 and the amounts shown in note 19.
It affects the timing of recognition of revenue items, but not generally the overall amount recognised.
The standard will come into force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2019.
A preliminary review exercise has taken place and the Group has concluded that the introduction of the new standard will not have a material impact on its results or financial position.
IFRS 16 IFRS 16 will replace the standards currently governing the accounting for operating and finance leases and will come in to force with effect from the Groups financial statements for the year ending 30 September 2020, unless the Group decides to adopt it early.
The standard will address accounting by lessees and lessors, but the provisions for lessor accounting are little changed from those in IAS 17 and so the accounting for the Groups finance lease receivables will be largely unaffected.
Accounting by lessees will be changed significantly, with a right of use asset recognised on the balance sheet for all leases, based on discounted future commitments.
This includes leases presently treated as operating leases and not recognised on the balance sheet.
The Groups commitments under such leases are described in note 63 b and a preliminary review of the standard indicates the changes are unlikely to have a material impact on the Groups results or financial position.
IAS 7 The Disclosure Initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows, which will come into force with effect from the Groups financial year ending 30 September 2018, will require entities to present a note to the accounts describing movements in liabilities arising from financing cash flows.
The Group already presents such a note on a voluntary basis note 62, therefore the introduction of the amended standard will have minimal impact.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU.
In the financial years reported upon this means that the financial statements accord also with International Financial Reporting Standards as approved by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The particular policies applied are described below.
a Accounting convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as required in the valuation of certain financial instruments which are carried at fair value.
b Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements deal with the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries made up to 30 September 2017.
Subsidiaries comprise all those entities over which the Group has control and are listed in note 65.
The results of businesses acquired are dealt with in the consolidated accounts from the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements companies owned by charitable trusts into which loans originated by group companies were sold as part of its warehouse and securitisation funding arrangements, where the Group enjoys the benefits of ownership, are treated as subsidiaries.
Similarly, trusts set up to hold shares in conjunction with the Groups employee share ownership arrangements are also treated as subsidiaries.
c Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
Accounting standards require the directors to assess the Groups ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
In performing this assessment, the directors consider all available information about the future, the possible outcomes of events and changes in conditions and the realistically possible responses to such events and conditions that would be available to them, having regard to the Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014.
In order to assess the appropriateness of the going concern basis the directors considered the Groups financial position, the cash flow requirements laid out in its forecasts, its access to funding, the assumptions underlying the forecasts and the potential risks affecting them.
After performing this assessment, the directors concluded that it was appropriate for them to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
PAGE 144 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts d Acquisitions and goodwill Goodwill arising from the purchase of subsidiary undertakings, representing the excess of the fair value of the purchase consideration over the fair values of acquired assets, including intangible assets, is held on the balance sheet and reviewed annually to determine whether any impairment has occurred.
Negative goodwill is written off as it arises.
As permitted by IFRS 1, the Group has elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business Combinations to combinations taking place before its transition date to IFRS 1 October 2004.
Therefore any goodwill which was written off to reserves under UK GAAP will not be charged or credited to the profit and loss account on any future disposal of the business to which it relates.
Contingent consideration arising on acquisitions is first recognised in the accounts at its fair value at the acquisition date and subsequently revalued at each accounting date until it falls due for payment or the final amount is otherwise determined.
e Cash and cash equivalents Balances shown as cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise demand deposits and short-term deposits with banks with initial maturities of not more than 90 days.
f Short-term investments Short-term investments are held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they are designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are consequently measured at their fair value which corresponds to their market value at the balance sheet date.
g Leases Leases are accounted for as operating or finance leases in accordance with IAS 17 Leases.
A finance lease is deemed to be one which transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the ownership of the asset concerned.
Any other lease is an operating lease.
Rental income and costs under operating leases are credited or charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the period of the leases.
h Loans to customers Loans to customers are considered to be loans and receivables as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
They are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
Loans advanced are valued at inception at the initial advance amount, which is the fair value at that time, inclusive of procuration fees paid to brokers or other business providers and less initial fees paid by the customer.
Loans acquired from third parties are initially valued at the purchase consideration paid or payable.
Thereafter, all loans to customers are valued at this initial amount less the cumulative amortisation calculated using the EIR method.
The loan balances are then reduced where necessary by a provision for balances which are considered to be impaired.
The EIR method spreads the expected net income arising from a loan over its expected life.
The EIR is that rate of interest which, at inception, exactly discounts the future cash payments and receipts arising from the loan to the initial carrying amount.
i Finance lease receivables Finance lease receivables are included within Loans to Customers at the total amount receivable less interest not yet accrued, unamortised commissions and provision for impairment.
Income from finance lease contracts is accounted for on the actuarial basis.
j Impairment of loans and receivables Loans and receivables are reviewed for indications of possible impairment throughout the year and at each balance sheet date in accordance with IAS 39.
Where loans exhibit objective evidence of impairment a loss event the carrying value of the loans is reduced to the net present value of their expected future cash flows, including the value of the potential realisation of any security net of sales costs discounted at the original EIR.
PAGE 145 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Within its buy-to-let portfolio the Group utilises a receiver of rent process, whereby the receiver stands between the landlord and tenant and will determine an appropriate strategy for dealing with any delinquency.
This strategy may involve the immediate sale of any underlying security or the short or long term letting of the property to cover arrears and principal shortfalls.
Where a letting strategy is adopted, a tenant is in place and arrears are reduced or cleared, the account will not necessarily attract an impairment provision.
Properties in receivership are eventually either returned to their landlord owners or sold.
Loss events reflect both loans that display delinquency in contractual payments of principal or interest or, for buy-to-let loans in receivership but up to date at the balance sheet date, properties where the receiver adopts a sale strategy, where a shortfall may or may not arise.
In addition to loans where loss events are evident, loans are also assessed collectively, grouped by risk characteristics and account is taken of any impairment arising due to events which are believed to have taken place but have not been specifically identified at the balance sheet date.
Collective impairment provisions are calculated for each key portfolio based on recent historical performance, with adjustments for expected changes in losses based on managements judgement.
In the receiver of rent portfolio collective provisions are also established for cases where the present strategy might not be sustainable.
For loan portfolios acquired at a discount, the discounts take account of future expected impairments.
An impairment charge is only recognised in the income statement if the total receipts from an acquired portfolio are below the original purchase price.
Changes to expected cash flows from acquired portfolios are reflected by discounting the future expected cash flows by the original effective interest rate, with any change from the prevailing carrying value being recognised in the income statement.
For financial accounting purposes provisions for impairments of loans to customers when first recognised in the income statement are held in an allowance account.
These balances are released to offset against the gross value of the loan when it is written off to profit and loss on the administration system.
After this point a salvage balance may be held in respect of any further recoveries expected on the loan.
k Investments in structured entities Investments in structured entities are intended to be held to maturity and are therefore accounted for on the amortised cost basis.
The return from such investments is calculated on the EIR basis.
l Amounts owed by or to group companies In the accounts of the Company, balances owed by or to other group companies are carried at the current amount outstanding less any provision.
Where balances owing between group companies fall within the definition of either financial assets or financial liabilities given in IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation they are classified as Loans and Receivables or Other financial liabilities, respectively.
m Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Assets held for letting under operating leases are depreciated in equal annual instalments to their estimated residual value over the life of the related lease.
This depreciation is deducted in arriving at net lease income and is shown in note 18.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed by management and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Depreciation on operating assets is provided on cost in equal annual instalments over the lives of the assets.
The rates of depreciation are as follows: Freehold premises 2% per annum Short leasehold premises over the term of the lease Computer hardware 25% per annum Furniture, fixtures and office equipment 15% per annum Company motor vehicles 25% per annum n Intangible assets Intangible assets comprise purchased computer software and other intangible assets acquired in business combinations.
Purchased computer software is capitalised where it has a sufficiently enduring nature and is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate of 25% per annum.
Other intangible assets acquired in business combinations include brands and business networks and are capitalised in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Such assets are stated at attributed cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is provided in equal instalments at a rate determined at the point of acquisition.
PAGE 146 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts o Investments in subsidiaries The Companys investments in subsidiary undertakings are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
p Own shares Shares in Paragon Banking Group PLC held in treasury or by the trustee of the Groups employee share ownership plan are shown on the balance sheet as a deduction in arriving at total equity.
Own shares are stated at cost.
q Retail deposits Retail deposits are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial fair value recognised represents the cash amount received from the customer.
Interest payable to the customer is expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the deposit term on an EIR basis.
r Borrowings Borrowings are carried in the balance sheet on the amortised cost basis.
The initial value recognised includes the principal amount received less any discount on issue or costs of issuance.
Interest and all other costs of the funding are expensed to the income statement as interest payable over the term of the borrowing on an EIR basis.
s Central bank facilities Where central bank facilities are provided at a below market rate of interest, and therefore fall within the definition of government assistance as defined by IAS 20 Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance the liability is initially recognised at the value of its expected cash flows discounted at a market rate of interest for a comparable commercial borrowing.
Interest is recognised on this liability on an EIR basis, using the imputed market rate to determine the EIR.
The remaining amount of the advance is recognised as deferred government assistance and released to the profit and loss account through interest payable over the periods during which the arrangement affects profit.
t Derivative financial instruments All derivative financial instruments are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, as assets where the value is positive or as liabilities where the value is negative.
Fair value is based on market prices, where a market exists.
If there is no active market, fair value is calculated using present value models which incorporate assumptions based on market conditions and are consistent with accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income statement, except where such amounts are permitted to be taken to equity as part of the accounting for a cash flow hedge.
u Hedging For all hedges, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instruments and the hedged items at inception, as well as its risk management strategy and objectives for undertaking the transaction.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging arrangements put in place are considered to be highly effective as defined by IAS 39.
For a fair value hedge, as long as the hedging relationship is deemed highly effective and meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39, any gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in income can be offset against the fair value loss or gain arising from the hedged item for the hedged risk.
For macro hedges hedges of interest rate risk for a portfolio of loan assets or retail deposit liabilities this fair value adjustment is disclosed in the balance sheet alongside the hedged item, for other hedges the adjustment is made to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability.
Only the net ineffectiveness of the hedge is charged or credited to income.
Where a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the fair value adjustment is amortised over the remaining term of the underlying item.
Where a derivative is used to hedge the variability of cash flows of an asset or liability, it may be designated as a cash flow hedge so long as this relationship meets the hedging requirements of IAS 39.
For such an instrument the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is taken initially to equity, with the ineffective part taken to profit or loss.
The amount taken to equity is released to the income statement at the same time as the hedged item affects the income statement.
Where a cash flow hedge relationship is terminated, or deemed ineffective, the amount taken to equity will remain there until the hedged transaction occurs, or is no longer highly probable.
PAGE 147 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts v Taxation The charge for taxation represents the expected UK corporation tax and other income taxes arising from the Groups profit for the year.
This consists of the current tax which will be shown in tax returns for the year and tax deferred because of temporary differences.
This in general, represents the tax impact of items recorded in the current year but which will impact tax returns for periods other than the one in which they are included in the financial statements.
The Group holds a provision for uncertain tax positions at the balance sheet date based on a global assessment of the expected amount that will ultimately be payable.
Tax relating to items taken directly to equity is also taken directly to equity.
w Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided in full on temporary differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as probable that they will be recovered.
As required by IAS 12 Income Taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted to take account of the expected timing of realisation.
x Retirement benefit obligations The expected cost of providing pensions within the funded defined benefit scheme, determined on the basis of annual valuations by professionally qualified actuaries using the projected unit method, is charged to the income statement.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur and do not form part of the result for the period, being recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets at the balance sheet date.
The expected financing cost of the deficit, as estimated at the beginning of the period is recognised in the result for the period within interest payable.
Any variances against the estimated amount in the year form part of the actuarial gain or loss.
The charge to the income statement for providing pensions under defined contribution pension schemes is equal to the contributions payable to such schemes for the year.
y Revenue The revenue of the Group comprises interest receivable and similar charges and other income.
The accounting policy for the recognition of each element of revenue is described separately within these accounting policies.
z Fee and commission income Other income includes: Administration fees charged to borrowers other than the initial fees included in amortised cost, which are credited when the related service is performed Fees charged to third parties for account administration services, which are credited as those services are performed Commissions receivable on the sale of insurances, which are taken to profit at the point at which the Group becomes unconditionally entitled to the income Maintenance income charged as part of the Groups contract hire arrangements which is recognised as the services are provided.
Costs of these services are deducted in other income Broker fees receivable on the arrangement of loans funded by third parties, which are taken to profit at the point of completion of the related loan aa Share based payments In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payments, the fair value at the date of grant of awards to be made in respect of options and shares granted under the terms of the Groups various share based employee incentive arrangements is charged to the profit and loss account over the period between the date of grant and the vesting date.
National Insurance on share based payments is accrued over the vesting period, based on the share price at the balance sheet date.
Where the allowable cost of share based awards for tax purposes is greater than the cost determined in accordance with IFRS 2, the tax effect of the excess is taken to reserves.
PAGE 148 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts bb Dividends In accordance with IAS 10 Events after the balance sheet date, dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in equity once they are appropriately authorised and are no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Dividends declared after the balance sheet date, but before the authorisation of the financial statements remain within shareholders funds.
cc Foreign currency Foreign currency transactions, assets and liabilities are accounted for in accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.
The functional currency of the Group is the pound sterling.
Transactions which are not denominated in sterling are translated into sterling at the spot rate of exchange on the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities which are not denominated in sterling are translated at the closing rate on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on retranslation are included in interest payable or interest receivable depending on whether the underlying instrument is an asset or a liability, except where deferred in equity in accordance with the cash flow hedging provisions of IAS 39. dd Segmental reporting The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described above for the Group as a whole.
Interest payable by each segment includes directly attributable funding and the allocated cost of retail deposit funds utilised.
Costs attributed to each segment represent the direct costs incurred by the segment operations.
FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL LIABILITIES IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires that where assets are measured at fair value these measurements should be classified using a fair value hierarchy reflecting the inputs used, and defines three levels.
Level 1 measurements are unadjusted market prices Level 2 measurements are derived from observable data, such as market prices or rates Level 3 measurements rely on significant inputs which are not derived from observable data As quoted prices are not available for level 2 and 3 measurements, the valuation is derived from cash flow models based, where possible, on independently sourced parameters.
The accuracy of the calculation would therefore be affected by unexpected market movements or other variances in the operation of the models or the assumptions used.
The Group had no financial assets or liabilities in the year ended 30 September 2017 or the year ended 30 September 2016 valued using level 3 measurements.
The Group has not reclassified any of its measurements during the year.
The methods by which fair value is established for each class of financial assets and liabilities is set out below.
a Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Derivative financial assets and liabilities Derivative financial instruments are stated at their fair values in the accounts.
The Group uses a number of techniques to determine the fair values of its derivative assets and liabilities, for which observable prices in active markets are not available.
These are principally present value calculations based on estimated future cash flows arising from the instruments, discounted using a risk adjusted interest rate.
The principal inputs to these valuation models are LIBOR benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the instruments are denominated, sterling, euros and dollars.
The cross-currency basis swaps have a notional principal related to the outstanding currency borrowings and therefore the estimated rate of repayment of these notes also affects the valuation of the swaps.
In order to determine the fair values the management applies valuation adjustments to observed data where that data would not fully reflect the attributes of the instrument being valued, such as particular contractual features or the identity of the counterparty.
The management reviews the models used on an ongoing basis to ensure that the valuations produced are reasonable and reflect all relevant factors.
These valuations are based on market information and they are therefore classified as level 2 measurements.
Details of these assets are given in note 38.
Short term investments The short term investments described in note 31 are freely traded securities for which a market price quotation is available and are classified as level 1 measurements.
PAGE 149 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b Assets and liabilities carried at amortised cost Cash, bank loans and securitisation borrowings The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, bank loans and overdrafts and asset backed loan notes, which are carried at amortised cost are considered to be not materially different from their book values.
In arriving at that conclusion market inputs have been considered but because all the assets mature within three months of the year end and the interest rates charged on financial liabilities reset to market rates on a quarterly basis, little difference arises.
This also applies to the parent companys loans to its subsidiaries.
While the Groups asset backed loan notes are listed, the quoted prices for an individual note may not be indicative of the fair value of the issue as a whole, due to the specialised nature of the market in such instruments and the limited number of investors participating in it.
As these valuation exercises are not wholly market based they are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Corporate debt The Groups retail and corporate bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and there is presently a reasonably liquid market in the instruments.
It is therefore appropriate to consider that the market price of these borrowings constitutes a fair value.
As this valuation is based on a market price, it is considered to be a level 1 measurement.
Retail deposits To assess the likely fair value of the Groups retail deposit liabilities, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs, these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Loan assets To assess the likely fair value of the Groups loan assets in the absence of a liquid market, the directors have considered the estimated cash flows expected to arise from the Groups investments in its loans to customers based on a mixture of market based inputs, such as rates and pricing and non-market based inputs such as redemption rates.
Given the mixture of observable and non-observable inputs these are considered to be level 2 measurements.
Sundry assets and liabilities Fair values of financial assets and liabilities disclosed as sundry assets and sundry liabilities are not considered to be materially different to their carrying values.
PAGE 150 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The fair values for financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost, other than those where carrying values are so low that any difference would be immaterial, determined in accordance with the methodologies set out above is summarised below.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Certain of the balances reported in the financial statements are based wholly or in part on estimates or assumptions made by the directors.
There is, therefore, a potential risk that they may be subject to change in future periods.
The most significant of these are: a Impairment losses on loans to customers Impairment losses on loans are calculated based on statistical models, applied to the present status performance and management strategy for the loans concerned which are used to indicate cases for which a specific provision might be required.
Indicators will include number of months arrears, qualitative information, such as possession by a first charge holder on a second charge mortgage or where a buy-to-let case is under the control of a receiver of rent, the receivers present and likely future strategy for the property e. g. keeping current tenants in place, refurbish and relet, immediate sale etc.
Where a letting strategy has been adopted for a buy-to-let case in receivership, with a tenant in place, arrears reduced or cleared and the capital balance potentially reducing, the account will not necessarily attract an impairment provision, dependant on the management strategy adopted.
The key assumptions in the models relate to estimates of future cash flows from customers accounts, their timing and, for secured accounts, the expected proceeds from the realisation of the property or other charged assets.
These cash flows will include payments received from the customer, and, for buy-to-let cases where a receiver of rent is appointed, rental receipts from tenants, after allowing for void periods and running costs.
These key assumptions are based on observed data from historical patterns and are updated regularly based on new data as it becomes available.
PAGE 151 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts In addition, the directors consider how appropriate past trends and patterns might be in the current economic situation and make any adjustments they believe are necessary to reflect current conditions.
The accuracy of the impairment calculations would therefore be affected by unexpected changes to the economic situation, variances between the models used and the actual results, or assumptions which differ from the actual outcomes.
In particular, if the impact of economic factors such as employment levels on customers is worse than is implicit in the model then the number of accounts requiring provision might be greater than suggested by the model, while falls in house prices, over and above any assumed by the model might increase the provision required in respect of accounts currently provided.
Similarly, if the account management approach assumed in the modelling cannot be adopted the provision required may be different.
To illustrate this the impairment provisions were recalculated by changing one factor in the calculation and keeping all others at their current levels.
This exercise indicated that: Adopting a sale strategy for 5% of currently let buy-to-let properties with a receiver of rent in place would increase impairment provisions by 2.3m 2016: 2.6m 5% of receiver of rent properties currently vacant or for sale becoming fully performing would reduce impairment provisions by 0.3m 2016: 0.4m A 10% reduction in house prices would increase impairment provisions across the first mortgage assets by 2.0m 2016: 3.0m, while a 10% increase would reduce impairment provisions by 1.5m 2016: 2.5m A reduction in cash flows from receiver of rent properties of 10% would increase impairment provision by 0.1m 2016: 0.2m It should be noted that all of these changes would, in reality be interrelated so examining them separately may not give reliable guidance to future behaviour.
b Effective interest rates In order to determine the EIR applicable to loans and borrowings an estimate must be made of the expected life of each asset or liability and hence the cash flows relating thereto.
For purchased loan accounts this will involve estimating the likely future credit performance of the accounts at the time of acquisition.
These estimates are based on historical data and reviewed regularly.
For purchased accounts historical data obtained from the vendor will be examined.
The accuracy of the EIR applied would therefore be compromised by any differences between actual repayment profiles and that predicted, which in turn would depend directly or indirectly in the case of borrowings on customer behaviour.
To illustrate this the amortised cost values were recalculated by changing one factor in the EIR calculation and keeping all others at their current levels.
This exercise indicated that: A reduction or increase of the assumed average lives of loans secured on residential property by three months would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 2.0m 2016: 1.6m A reduction or increase in estimated cash flows from purchased loan assets of 5% would reduce or increase balance sheet assets by 15.3m An increase of one year in the estimated remaining lives of callable FRN borrowings would increase balance sheet liabilities by an amount between 0.8m and 2.3m As any of these changes would, in reality, be accompanied by movements in other factors, actual outcomes may differ from these estimates.
c Impairment of goodwill The carrying value of goodwill recognised on acquisitions is verified by use of an impairment test based on the projected cash flows for the cash generating unit, based on management forecasts and other assumptions described in note 42, including a discount factor.
The accuracy of this impairment calculation would therefore be compromised by any differences between these forecasts and the levels of business activity that the cash generating unit is able to achieve in practice.
This test will also be affected by the accuracy of the discount factor used.
The sensitivity of the impairment test to reasonably possible movements in these assumptions is discussed in note 42. d Retirement benefits The present value of the retirement benefit obligation is derived from an actuarial calculation which rests on a number of assumptions relating to inflation, long-term return on investments and mortality.
Where actual conditions differ from those assumed the ultimate value of the obligation would be different.
Information on the sensitivity of the valuation to the various assumptions is given in note 54.
PAGE 152 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 7.
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Groups objectives in managing capital are: To ensure that the Group has sufficient capital to meet its operational requirements and strategic objectives To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, so that it can continue to provide returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders To provide an adequate return to shareholders by pricing products and services commensurately with the level of risk To ensure that sufficient regulatory capital is available to meet any externally imposed requirements The Group sets its target amount of capital in proportion to risk, availability, regulatory requirements and cost.
The Group manages the capital structure and makes adjustments to it in the light of changes in economic conditions and the risk characteristics of the underlying assets, having particular regard to the relative costs and availability of debt and equity finance at any given time.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares, issue or redeem other capital instruments, such as retail or corporate bonds, or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group is subject to regulatory capital rules imposed by the PRA on a consolidated basis as a group containing an authorised bank.
This is discussed further below.
a Dividend policy The Company is committed to a long term sustainable dividend policy.
Ordinarily, dividends will increase in line with earnings, subject to the requirements of the business and the availability of cash resources.
The Board reviews the policy at least twice a year in advance of announcing its results, taking into account the Groups strategy, capital requirements, principal risks and the objective of enhancing shareholder value.
In determining the level of dividend for any year, the Board expects to follow the dividend policy, but will also take into account the level of available retained earnings in the Company, its cash resources and the cash and capital requirements inherent in its business plans.
The distributable reserves of the Company comprise its profit and loss account balance note 56 and, other than the requirement for the Bank to retain an appropriate level of capital, there are no restrictions preventing profits elsewhere in the Group from being distributed to the parent.
The Board reviewed its dividend policy following the Groups reorganisation in September 2017, concluding that the changes made would make the Groups use of working capital more efficient and that there was, therefore, less need to retain earnings to support future growth.
It therefore determined that the targeted dividend cover ratio on the basis set out below would be reduced from 3.00 times, initially to 2.75 times for the current year and then, subject to the requirements of the business, to 2.50 times.
The Company considers it has access to sufficient cash resources to pay dividends at this level and that its distributable reserves are abundant for this purpose.
To provide greater transparency, the Company has also indicated that in future its interim dividend per share will normally be 50% of the previous final dividend, in the absence of any indicators which might make such a level of payment inappropriate.
For the purposes of dividend policy the Group defines dividend cover based on earnings and dividend per share.
This is the most common measure used by financial analysts.
The expected level of dividend cover in respect of the year, subject to the approval of the final dividend at the Annual General Meeting, is shown below.
Note 2017 2016 29 Earnings per share p 43.1 40.5 58 Proposed dividend per share in respect of the year p 15.7 13.5 Dividend cover times 2.75 3.00 PAGE 153 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b Return on tangible equity RoTE is a measure of an entitys profitability used by investors.
RoTE is defined by the Group by comparing the profit after tax for the year, adjusted for amortisation charged on intangible assets, to the average of the opening and closing equity positions, excluding intangible assets and goodwill.
The Groups consolidated RoTE for the year ended 30 September 2017 is derived as follows: Note 2017 2016 m m Profit for the year after tax 117.2 116.0 Amortisation of intangible assets 20 1.6 1.6 Adjusted profit 118.8 117.6 Divided by Opening equity 969.5 969.5 Opening intangible assets 41 105.4 7.7 Opening tangible equity 864.1 961.8 Closing equity 1,009.4 969.5 41 Closing intangible assets 104.4 105.4 Closing tangible equity 905.0 864.1 Average tangible equity 884.5 913.0 Return on Tangible Equity 13.4% 12.9% This table is not subject to audit c Gearing The Board of Directors regularly review the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity.
Net debt is calculated as total debt, other than securitised and warehouse debt, valued at principal value, less free cash up to a maximum of the total debt.
Adjusted equity comprises all components of equity share capital, share premium, capital redemption reserve, retained earnings, and revaluation surplus other than amounts recognised in equity relating to cash flow hedges.
The debt and equity amounts at 30 September 2017 and at 30 September 2016 were as follows: Note 2017 2016 m m Debt Corporate bonds 48 150.0 260.0 Retail bonds 47 297.5 297.5 Bank overdraft 0.6 1.2 30 Less: Applicable free cash 305.5 383.1 Net debt 142.6 175.6 Equity Total equity 1,009.4 969.5 56 Less: cash flow hedging reserve 2.5 2.1 Adjusted equity 1,006.9 967.4 Total working capital 1,149.5 1,143.0 Debt 12.4% 15.4% Equity 87.6% 84.6% Total working capital 100.0% 100.0% The movements in the proportion of working capital represented by debt and equity during the year ended 30 September 2017, including the scheduled repayment of the 110.0m corporate bond in the year, resulted primarily from the operation of the policy described above.
PAGE 154 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts d Regulatory capital The Group is subject to supervision by the PRA on a consolidated basis, as a group containing an authorised bank.
As part of this supervision the regulator will issue individual capital guidance setting an amount of regulatory capital, which the Group is required to hold relative to its risk weighted assets in order to safeguard depositors from loss in the event of severe losses being incurred by the Group.
This is defined by the international Basel III rules, set by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BCBS and currently implemented in UK law by EU Regulation 575 2013, referred to as the Capital Requirements Regulation CRR.
The Groups regulatory capital is monitored by the Board of Directors, its Risk and Compliance Committee and the Asset and Liability Committee, who ensure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the regulators requirements.
The future regulatory capital requirement is also considered as part of the Groups forecasting and strategic planning process.
The tables below demonstrate that at 30 September 2017 the Groups regulatory capital of 1,030.5m 2016: 1,005.6m was comfortably in excess of that required by the regulator.
The Groups regulatory capital differs from its equity as certain adjustments are required by the regulator.
A reconciliation of the Groups equity to its regulatory capital determined in accordance with CRD IV at 30 September 2017 is set out below.
Note 2017 2016 m m Total equity 1,009.4 969.5 Deductions Proposed final dividend 58 28.9 25.5 Intangible assets 41 104.4 105.4 Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 capital 876.1 838.6 Other Tier 1 capital - - Total Tier 1 capital 876.1 838.6 Corporate bond 48 150.0 260.0 Less: amortisation adjustment - 97.8 150.0 162.2 Collectively assessed credit impairment allowances 4.4 4.8 Total Tier 2 capital 154.4 167.0 Total regulatory capital 1,030.5 1,005.6 When tier 2 capital instruments have less than five years to maturity the amount eligible as regulatory capital reduces by 20% per annum.
As the Groups 110.0m Corporate Bond matured in 2017, this adjustment was required in respect of this instrument at 30 September 2016.
No such adjustment is required in respect of the Corporate Bond issued in the year ended 30 September 2016, which matures in 2026.
The total exposure amount calculated under the CRD IV framework against which this capital is held, and the proportion of these assets it represents, are calculated as shown below.
2017 2016 m m Credit risk Balance sheet assets 4,907.7 4,728.4 Off balance sheet 68.3 51.5 Total credit risk 4,976.0 4,779.9 Operational risk 464.9 445.7 Market risk - - Other 67.8 61.9 Total exposure amount 5,508.7 5,287.5 Solvency ratios % % CET1 15.9 15.9 Total regulatory capital 18.7 19.0 This table is not subject to Audit PAGE 155 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The CRD IV risk weightings for credit risk exposures are calculated using the Standardised Approach.
The Basic Indicator Approach is used for operational risk.
The table below shows the calculation of the UK leverage ratio, based on the consolidated balance sheet assets adjusted as shown.
The PRA has proposed a minimum UK leverage ratio of 3.25% for UK firms.
Note 2017 2016 m m Total balance sheet assets 13,682.2 13,518.4 Less: Derivative assets 38 906.6 1,366.4 Central bank deposits 30 615.0 315.0 39 CRDs 1.6 0.6 On-balance sheet items 12,159.0 11,836.4 Less: Intangible assets 41 104.4 105.4 Total on balance sheet exposures 12,054.6 11,731.0 Derivative assets 38 906.6 1,366.4 Potential future exposure on derivatives 191.3 68.6 Total derivative exposures 1,097.9 1,435.0 Post offer pipeline at gross notional amount 417.9 273.8 Adjustment to convert to credit equivalent amounts 208.9 136.9 Off balance sheet items 209.0 136.9 Tier 1 capital 876.1 838.6 Total leverage exposure 13,361.5 13,302.9 UK leverage ratio 6.6% 6.3% This table is not subject to audit The UK leverage ratio is prescribed by the PRA and differs from the leverage ratio defined by Basel and the CRR due to the exclusion of central bank balances from exposures.
The regulatory capital disclosures in these financial statements relate only to the consolidated position for the Group.
Individual entities within the Group are also subject to supervision on a standalone basis.
All such entities complied with the requirements to which they were subject during the year.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The principal risks arising from the Groups exposure to financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk particularly, interest rate risk and currency risk.
These risks are discussed in notes 9 to 12 respectively.
The Board of Directors has a Risk and Compliance Committee, consisting of the Chairman and the non-executive directors which is responsible for providing oversight and challenge to the Groups risk management arrangements.
The Credit Committee and ALCO are executive sub-committees of the Risk and Compliance Committee which monitor performance against the risk appetites set by the Board and make recommendations for changes in risk appetite where appropriate.
They also review and, where authorised to do so, agree or amend policies for managing each of these risks, which are summarised in the relevant note.
The Corporate Governance Statement in Section B3 which is not subject to audit provides further detail on the operations of these committees.
The financial risk management policies have remained unchanged throughout the year and since the year end.
The position disclosed below is materially similar to that existing throughout the year.
PAGE 156 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 9. CREDIT RISK The Groups business objectives rely on maintaining a high-quality customer base and place strong emphasis on good credit management, both at the time of acquiring or underwriting a new loan, where strict lending criteria are applied, and throughout the loans life.
Primary responsibility for credit risk management across the Group lies with the Credit Committee.
The Credit Committee is made up of senior employees, drawn from financial and risk functions independent of the underwriting process.
It is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer.
Its key responsibilities include setting and reviewing credit policy, controlling applicant quality, tracking account performance against targets, agreeing product criteria and lending guidelines and monitoring performance and trends.
The assets of the Group and the Company which are subject to credit risk are set out below: Note The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Loans to customers 32 11,124.1 10,737.5 - - Derivative financial assets 38 906.6 1,366.4 - - 39 Amounts owed by Group companies - - 40.1 84.5 39 Accrued interest income 0.2 0.3 - 0.1 39 CSA assets 2.0 3.7 - - CRDs 39 1.6 0.6 - - Trade receivables 39 4.2 2.4 - - Short term investments 31 - 7.1 - - 30 Cash 1,496.9 1,237.6 277.6 361.3 Maximum exposure to credit risk 13,535.6 13,355.6 317.7 445.9 While this maximum exposure represents the potential loss which might have to be accounted for by the Group, the terms on which a significant proportion of the Groups loan assets are funded, described under Liquidity Risk in note 10, limit the amount of principal repayments on the Groups securitised and warehouse borrowings in cases of capital losses on assets, considerably reducing the effective shareholder value at risk.
Loans to customers The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its loans to customers.
There are no significant concentrations of credit risk to individual counterparties due to the large number of customers included in the portfolios.
The Groups loan assets at 30 September 2017 are analysed as follows: 2017 2017 2016 2016 m % m % Buy-to-let mortgages 9,836.5 88.4% 9,621.2 89.6% Owner-occupied mortgages 19.0 0.2% 19.4 0.2% Total first charge residential mortgages 9,855.5 88.6% 9,640.6 89.8% Second charge mortgage loans 490.7 4.4% 526.8 4.9% Loans secured on residential property 10,346.2 93.0% 10,167.4 94.7% Development finance 42.3 0.4% 9.1 0.1% Commercial mortgages 2.7 - 2.9 - Loans secured on property 10,391.2 93.4% 10,179.4 94.8% Motor finance loans 163.0 1.5% 95.3 0.9% Other consumer loans 219.1 2.0% 195.1 1.8% Asset finance loans 325.0 2.9% 250.4 2.3% Factoring and discounting balances 23.8 0.2% 16.9 0.2% Other loans 2.0 - 0.4 - Total loans to customers 11,124.1 100.0% 10,737.5 100.0% PAGE 157 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Other consumer loans include unsecured loans either advanced by Group companies or acquired from their originators at a discount.
The Groups underwriting philosophy is based on a combination of sophisticated individual credit assessment and the automated efficiencies of a scored decision making process.
Information on each applicant is combined with data taken from a credit reference bureau to provide a complete credit picture of the applicant and the borrowing requested.
Key information is validated through a combination of documentation and statistical data which collectively provides evidence of the applicants ability and willingness to pay the amount contracted under the loan agreement.
In assessing credit risk, even where the Group would have security on a proposed loan, an applicants ability and propensity to repay the loan remain the principal factors in the decision to lend.
In considering whether to acquire pools of loan assets, the Group will undertake a due diligence exercise on the underlying loan accounts.
Such assets are generally not fully performing and are offered at a discount to their current balance.
The Groups procedures may include inspection of original loan documents, verification of security and the examination of the credit status of borrowers.
Current and historic cash flow data will also be examined.
The objective of the exercise is to establish, to a level of confidence similar to that provided by the underwriting process, that the assets will generate sufficient cash flows to recover the Groups investment and generate an appropriate return without exposing the Group to material operational or conduct risks.
First mortgages and secured loans are secured by charges over residential properties in England and Wales, or similar Scottish or Northern Irish securities.
Motor finance loans and asset finance loans are effectively secured by the financed asset.
Development finance loans are secured by the development property and various charges over the build.
An analysis of the indexed loan to value ratio LTV for those loan accounts secured on residential property by value at 30 September 2017 is set out below.
For acquired accounts the effect of any discount on purchase is allowed for.
PAGE 158 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The number of accounts in arrears by asset class, based on the most commonly quoted definition of arrears for the type of asset, at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016, compared to the industry averages at those dates published by UK Finance UKF formerly the CML and the FLA, was: 2017 2016 % % First mortgages Accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.08 0.11 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.02 0.02 Owner-occupied accounts 3.55 3.23 UKF data for mortgage accounts more than three months in arrears Buy-to-let accounts including receiver of rent cases 0.45 0.52 Buy-to-let accounts excluding receiver of rent cases 0.41 0.47 Owner-occupied accounts 0.95 1.03 All mortgages 0.86 0.94 Second charge mortgage loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears All accounts 17.55 17.15 Post-2010 originations 0.06 0.00 Legacy cases 16.75 16.33 Purchased assets 19.69 17.86 FLA data for secured loans 10.70 12.40 Car loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 0.67 0.30 FLA data for point of sale hire purchase 1.70 1.50 Asset finance loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 0.97 0.82 FLA data for business lease hire purchase loans 0.60 0.60 Other loans Accounts more than 2 months in arrears 96.03 96.35 No published industry data for asset classes comparable to the Groups other books has been identified.
Where revised data at 30 September 2016 has been published by the FLA or UKF, the comparative industry figures above have been amended.
Arrears information is not given for development finance or factoring activities as the structure of the products means that such a measure is not relevant.
The Group calculates its headline arrears measure for buy-to-let mortgages, shown above, based on the numbers of accounts three months or more in arrears, including purchased Idem Capital assets, but excluding those cases in possession and receiver of rent cases designated for sale.
This is consistent with the methodology used by the UKF in compiling its statistics for the buy-to-let mortgage market as a whole.
The number of accounts in arrears will naturally be higher for legacy books, such as the Groups legacy second charge mortgages and residential first mortgages than for comparable active ones, as performing accounts pay off their balances, leaving arrears accounts representing a greater proportion of the total.
The figures shown above for secured loans and other loans include purchased portfolios which generally include a high proportion of cases in arrears at the time of purchase and where this level of performance is allowed for in the discount to current balance represented by the purchase price.
However this will lead to higher than average reported arrears.
PAGE 159 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The payment status of the carrying balances of the Groups live loan assets, at 30 September 2017 and at 30 September 2016 split between those accounts considered as performing and those included in the population for impairment testing, is shown below.
Balances for immaterial asset classes are not shown.
Asset finance loans below includes other related loan balances.
Fully provided non-live accounts are excluded from the tables below.
Days past due is not a relevant measure for the development finance or invoice discounting businesses, due to their particular contractual arrangements.
First mortgages 2017 2016 m m Not past due 9,724.2 9,528.1 Arrears less than 3 months 112.6 82.1 Performing accounts 9,836.8 9,610.2 Arrears 3 to 6 months 1.1 2.4 Arrears 6 to 12 months 1.9 2.8 Arrears over 12 months 7.7 11.0 Possessions and similar cases 22.5 31.1 Impairment population 33.2 47.3 Total gross balances 9,870.0 9,657.5 Impairment provision on live cases 12.7 16.4 Timing adjustments 1.8 0.5 Carrying balance 9,855.5 9,640.6 PAGE 160 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Consumer and asset finance Second charge Motor finance Asset finance Total mortgage loans loans loans m m m m 30 September 2017 Not past due 400.8 158.0 315.3 874.1 Arrears less than 2 months 20.5 5.0 10.0 35.5 Performing accounts 421.3 163.0 325.3 909.6 Arrears 2 to 6 months 14.9 0.7 0.5 16.1 Arrears 6 to 9 months 7.1 0.2 0.7 8.0 Arrears 9 to 12 months 5.4 0.1 - 5.5 Arrears over 12 months 46.2 0.3 0.1 46.6 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - 2.7 2.7 Impairment population 73.6 1.3 4.0 78.9 Total gross balances 494.9 164.3 329.3 988.5 Impairment provision on live cases 2.1 1.2 3.1 6.4 Timing adjustments 2.1 0.1 1.2 3.4 Carrying balance 490.7 163.0 325.0 978.7 30 September 2016 Not past due 415.0 92.7 251.6 759.3 Arrears less than 2 months 33.3 3.0 1.5 37.8 Performing accounts 448.3 95.7 253.1 797.1 Arrears 2 to 6 months 20.3 0.2 1.0 21.5 Arrears 6 to 9 months 8.3 - 0.3 8.6 Arrears 9 to 12 months 7.4 - - 7.4 Arrears over 12 months 51.0 0.2 0.4 51.6 Specifically impaired asset finance cases - - 3.3 3.3 Impairment population 87.0 0.4 5.0 92.4 Total gross balances 535.3 96.1 258.1 889.5 Impairment provision on live cases 3.4 0.6 0.5 4.5 Timing adjustments 5.1 0.2 3.9 9.2 Carrying balance 526.8 95.3 253.7 875.8 PAGE 161 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Other consumer loans 2017 2016 m m Not past due 6.7 4.1 Arrears less than 1 month 0.3 0.3 Performing accounts 7.0 4.4 Arrears 1 to 3 months 0.5 0.4 Arrears 3 to 6 months 0.9 0.7 Arrears 6 to 12 months 2.9 2.3 Arrears over 12 months 223.6 203.5 Impairment population 227.9 206.9 Total gross balances 234.9 211.3 Impairment provision 15.8 16.4 Timing adjustments - - Carrying balance 219.1 194.9 Arrears in the tables above are based on the contractual payment status of the customers concerned.
Where assets have been purchased by the Group, customers may already have been in arrears at the time of acquisition and an appropriate adjustment made to the consideration paid.
Acquired assets In the debt purchase industry, ERC is commonly used as a measure of the value of a portfolio.
This is defined as the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to be received over a specified future period.
In the Groups view, this measure may be suitable for heavily discounted, unsecured, distressed portfolios, but is less applicable for the types of portfolio in which the Group has invested, where cash flows are higher on acquisition, loans may be secured on property and customers may not be in default.
In such cases, the IAS 39 amortised cost balance, at which these assets are carried in the Group balance sheet, provides a better indication of value.
However, to aid comparability the 84 and 120 month ERC values for the Groups purchased assets, are set out below.
These are derived using the same models and assumptions used in the EIR calculations, but the differing bases of calculation lead to different outcomes.
2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Carrying value 84 month ERC 120 month ERC Carrying value 84 month ERC 120 month ERC m m m m m m Loans to customers 503.5 608.9 688.8 533.9 651.3 740.7 Amounts shown as loans to customers above include loans disclosed as first mortgages and other loans note 32 and are included in the aging tables above at their carrying values.
Buy-to-let receiver of rent cases Where a buy-to-let mortgage customer in England or Wales falls into arrears on their account the Group has the power to appoint a receiver of rent under the Law of Property Act.
The receiver will then manage the property on behalf of the customer, collecting rents and remitting them to make payments on the account.
While the receiver has the power to sell the property, in many cases they will operate it as a buy-to-let on at least a short to medium term basis, potentially longer, depending on the individual circumstances of the case.
This causes less disruption to the tenants and may result in the mortgage account returning to performing status and the property being handed back to the customer.
PAGE 162 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Groups outstanding exposure to buy-to-let loans with an appointed receiver is set out below.
2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Gross Provision Net Gross Provision Net m m m m m m Performing loans Let with less than 3 months arrears 113.3 - 113.3 122.9 - 122.9 Impaired loans Let with over 3 months arrears 7.0 2.7 4.3 10.2 3.5 6.7 Vacant or on sale 21.7 6.8 14.9 29.5 7.8 21.7 Impairment population 28.7 9.5 19.2 39.7 11.3 28.4 Total gross balances 142.0 9.5 132.5 162.6 11.3 151.3 Emergence provision - 2.4 2.4 - 2.9 2.9 Carrying balance 142.0 11.9 130.1 162.6 14.2 148.4 Development finance Development finance loans do not require customers to make payments during the life of the loan, therefore arrears and past due measures cannot be used to monitor credit risk.
Instead, cases are monitored on an individual basis by management and Credit Risk.
At 30 September 2017, this monitoring showed no accounts in default.
The average loan to gross development value ratio for the portfolio at year end, a measure of security cover, was 60.6%.
Institutional exposures In order to control credit risk relating to counterparties to the Groups derivative financial instruments and cash deposits, ALCO determines which counterparties the Group will deal with, establishes limits for each counterparty and monitors compliance with those limits.
Such counterparties are typically highly rated banks and, for all cash deposits and derivative positions held within the Groups securitisation structures, must comply with criteria set out in the financing arrangements, which are monitored externally.
Where a derivative counterparty to the Groups cross-currency basis swaps fails to meet the required criteria they are obliged under the terms of the instruments to set aside a cash collateral deposit.
The amounts of these cash collateral deposits, which do not form part of the Groups cash position, are given in note 38.
The Groups exposure to credit risk in respect of the counterparties to its derivative financial assets, analysed by their long term credit rating as determined by Fitch is set out below.
2017 2016 m m Carrying value of derivative financial assets Counterparties rated AA- 213.3 218.7 A 41.8 58.1 A 615.4 969.2 BBB 36.1 120.4 Gross exposure note 38 906.6 1,366.4 Collateral amounts posted 723.6 1,184.2 Net exposure 183.0 182.2 The Groups cash balances are held in sterling at the Bank of England and at highly rated banks in current accounts and as short fixed term deposits and money market placements.
The Group has a large exposures policy to mitigate any concentration risk in respect of its cash deposits.
Credit risk on these balances, and the interest accrued thereon, is considered to be minimal.
Trade debtors The Groups trade debtors balance represents principally amounts outstanding on unpaid operating lease obligations in the asset finance business, where similar acceptance criteria to those used for finance lease cases apply.
PAGE 163 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 10.
LIQUIDITY RISK Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group might be unable to satisfy any payment which is required to be made out of cash available to it at the time.
The Groups principal source of liquidity risk is from its retail deposit funding.
Deposit balances raised are typically used to support lending activities where maturity is over a longer period than that of the deposits.
This maturity transformation exposes the Group to liquidity risk.
Further liquidity risk in the medium term arises from the Groups corporate and retail bonds which are used to support its general operations and from its participation in central bank funding schemes.
The remaining liquidity risk relates to ensuring that sufficient funding is available to fund the Groups participation in the SPVs, provide capital support for new loans and working capital for the Group.
This responsibility rests with ALCO which makes recommendations for the Groups liquidity policy for Board approval and uses detailed cash flow projections to ensure that an adequate level of liquidity is available at all times.
Where assets are funded by non-recourse arrangements, through the securitisation process, liquidity risk is effectively eliminated.
Retail deposits The Group retail funding strategy is focused on building a stable mix of deposit products.
A high proportion of balances, 98.8%, are protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme FSCS which mitigates against the possibility of a retail run.
The cash outflows, including principal and estimated interest, contractually required by the Groups retail deposit balances analysed by the earliest date at which repayment can be demanded are set out below: 2017 2016 m m Payable in less than one year or on demand 2,259.1 1,036.8 Payable in one to two years 795.5 596.0 Payable in two to five years 687.4 312.9 3,742.0 1,945.7 In order to reduce the liquidity risk inherent in the Groups retail deposit balances, the PRA requires that the Bank, like other regulated banks, maintains a buffer of liquid assets to ensure it has sufficient available funds at all times to protect against unforeseen circumstances.
The amount of this buffer is calculated using Individual Liquidity Guidance ILG set by the PRA based on the ILAAP submitted by the Bank.
The ILAAP determines the liquid resources that must be maintained in the Bank to meet its Overall Liquidity Adequacy Requirement OLAR and to ensure that it can meet its liabilities as they fall due.
It is based on an analysis of its forecast cash requirements and their predicted behaviour in stressed conditions.
At 30 September 2017 the liquidity buffer of High Quality Liquid Assets HQLA comprised the following on and off balance sheet assets, all held within the Bank.
Note 2017 2016 m m Balances with central banks 30 615.0 315.0 Short term investments 31 - 7.1 Total on balance sheet liquidity 615.0 322.1 49 FLS drawings 109.0 108.8 Total HQLA 724.0 430.9 The Bank manages its Liquidity Coverage Ratio LCR, the level of its HQLA relative to its short term forecast net cash outflows.
A minimum level of LCR, the Liquidity Coverage Requirement is set through regulation for all regulated financial institutions.
As at 30 September 2017, the Banks LCR was comfortably above the required minimum regulatory standard.
The Bank also monitors its Net Stable Funding Ratio NSFR which measures the stability of the funding profile in relation to the composition of its assets and off-balance sheet activities.
Liquidity is not regulated at Group level.
PAGE 164 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Borrowings Set out below is the contractual maturity profile of the Groups and the Companys borrowings at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 based on their carrying values.
These are analysed between non-recourse securitisation and other funding, representing the liquidity exposure.
Non-recourse funding The Group has historically used securitisation as a principal source of funding, but currently only accesses this market on a strategic basis.
In a securitisation an SPV company within the Group will issue asset backed loan notes Notes secured on a pool of mortgage or other loan assets beneficially owned by the SPV in a public offer.
The Notes have a maturity date later than the final repayment date for any asset in the pool, typically over thirty years from the issue date.
The noteholders are entitled to receive repayment of the Note principal from principal funds generated by the loan assets from time to time, but their right to the repayment of principal is limited to the cash available in the SPV.
Similarly, payment of accrued interest to the noteholders is limited to cash generated within the SPV.
There is no requirement for any Group company other than the issuing SPV to make principal or interest payments in respect of the Notes.
This matching of the maturities of the assets and the related funding substantially reduces the Groups exposure to liquidity risk.
Details of Notes in issue are given in note 45 and the assets backing the Notes are shown in notes 33 and 34.
PAGE 165 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts In each case the Group provides funding to the SPV at inception, subordinated to the Notes, which means that the primary credit risk on the pool assets is retained within the Group.
The Group receives the residual income generated by the assets.
These factors mean that the risks and rewards of ownership of the assets remain with the Group, and hence the loans remain on the Groups balance sheet.
Cash received from time to time in each SPV is held until the next interest payment date when, following payment of principal, interest and the associated costs of the SPV, the remaining balances become available to the Group.
Cash balances are also held within each SPV to provide credit enhancement for the particular securitisation, allowing interest and principal payments to be made even if some of the loans default.
To provide further credit enhancement in certain SPVs, specific economic trigger events exist which cause additional cash to be retained in the SPV rather than being transferred to the Group.
While the Group can, if it chooses, contribute additional cash to cover these requirements, it is under no obligation to do so.
No such events occurred in the year ended 30 September 2017 or the year ended 30 September 2016.
Whether any such events in any of the Groups other SPVs arise in the future will depend on the performance of the general economy and its impact on mortgage and loan arrears in each SPV.
However, if all of the remaining trigger events occurred, a total of 80.5m of additional cash would be retained in the SPV companies 2016: 92.5m.
The cash balances of the SPV companies are included within the restricted cash balances disclosed in note 30 as securitisation cash.
Newly originated mortgage loans may be initially funded by a revolving loan facility or warehouse from the point of their origination until their inclusion in a securitisation transaction or other refinancing.
A warehouse company functions in a similar way to an SPV, except that funds are drawn down as advances are made, repaid when loans are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale and may subsequently be redrawn up to the end of a commitment period.
Repayment of the principal amount of the facilities is not required unless amounts are realised from the secured assets either through repayment, securitisation or asset sales, even after the end of the period.
There is no further recourse to other assets of the Group in respect of either interest or principal on the borrowings.
The Group has reduced its available warehouse facilities in the period.
As with the SPVs, the Group provides subordinated funding to the warehouse companies and restricted cash balances are held within them.
Contributions to the subordinated funding are made each time a drawing on the facility concerned is made.
These amounts provide credit enhancement to the warehouse and cover certain fees.
This funding is repaid when assets are securitised or refinanced by an internal asset sale.
The amount of subordinated funding outstanding in the three active warehouse companies at 30 September 2017 was 71.8m 2016: 118.8m.
Further details of the warehouse facilities are given in note 46 and details of the loan assets within the warehouses are given in note 33.
The final repayment date for all of the securitisation borrowings and the Paragon Second Funding warehouse borrowing is more than five years from the balance sheet date, the earliest falling due in 2033 and the latest in 2050.
The equivalent sterling principal amount outstanding at 30 September 2017 under the SPV and warehouse arrangements, allowing for the effect of the cross currency basis swaps, described under currency risk note 12, which are net settled with the loan payments, was 6,894.6m 2016: 8,596.3m.
The total sterling amount payable under these arrangements, were these principal amounts to remain outstanding until the final repayment date would be 10,576.0m 2016: 13,295.5m.
As the principal will, as discussed above, reduce as customers repay or redeem their accounts, the cash flow will be far less than this amount in practice.
Corporate debt In February 2013, the Company initiated a Euro Medium Term Note issuance programme, with a maximum issuance of 1,000.0m.
The Company had the ability to issue further notes under the programme and has issued three fixed rate bonds for a total of 297.5m, with interest rates ranging from 6.000% to 6.125% and maturities ranging from December 2021 to August 2023, the most recent issue of 112.5m being made in August 2015.
This programme offers the Group opportunities to raise further working capital if needed.
During the year ended 30 September 2016 the Group demonstrated its ability to access the capital markets when it issued a 150.0m Tier 2 Bond.
The Groups ability to issue debt is supported by its BBBcredit rating issued by Fitch and renewed in the period.
None of the Groups corporate or retail bond issuance falls due for payment earlier than 2020.
Central bank facilities The Group has accessed term facilities under the central bank schemes described in note 49.
The Group has prepositioned further assets with the Bank of England which can be used to release more funds for liquidity or other purposes.
At 30 September 2017 the amount of drawings available in respect of prepositioned assets was 84.1m.
PAGE 166 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Contractual cash flows The total undiscounted amounts, inclusive of estimated interest, which would be payable in respect of the non-securitisation borrowings of the Group and the Company, should those balances remain outstanding until the contracted repayment date, or the earliest date on which repayment can be required, are set out below.
Contingent Corporate Retail Central bank Total liabilities bonds bonds facilities m m m m m a The Group 30 September 2017 Payable in less than one year 2.5 10.9 18.0 2.1 33.5 Payable in one to two years 3.5 10.9 18.0 4.8 37.2 Payable in two to five years 8.1 32.6 228.9 712.6 982.2 Payable in over five years - 193.5 126.0 - 319.5 14.1 247.9 390.9 719.5 1,372.4 30 September 2016 Payable in less than one year 1.9 125.0 18.0 - 144.9 Payable in one to two years 2.5 10.9 18.0 - 31.4 Payable in two to five years 6.6 32.6 111.3 - 150.5 Payable in over five years 5.0 204.4 261.6 - 471.0 16.0 372.9 408.9 - 797.8 Corporate Retail Total bonds bonds m m m b The Company 30 September 2017 Payable in less than one year 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in one to two years 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in two to five years 32.6 228.9 261.5 Payable in over five years 193.5 126.0 319.5 247.9 390.9 638.8 30 September 2016 Payable in less than one year 125.0 18.0 143.0 Payable in one to two years 10.9 18.0 28.9 Payable in two to five years 32.6 111.3 143.9 Payable in over five years 204.4 261.6 466.0 372.9 408.9 781.8 PAGE 167 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Amounts payable in respect of the other accruals and trade creditors shown in note 50 fall due within one year.
The cash flows described above will include those for interest on borrowings accrued at 30 September 2017 disclosed in note 50.
The cash flows which are expected to arise from derivative contracts in place at the year end, estimating future floating rate payments and receipts on the basis of the yield curve at the balance sheet date are as follows: 2017 2016 Total cash Total cash outflow inflow outflow inflow m m On derivative liabilities Payable in less than one year 2.0 0.4 Payable in one to two years 1.7 0.4 Payable in two to five years 10.9 0.9 Payable in over five years 0.2 0.5 10.8 2.2 On derivative assets Payable in less than one year 3.9 8.0 Payable in one to two years 2.3 4.1 Payable in two to five years 0.7 2.3 Payable in over five years - 0.5 6.9 14.9 3.9 12.7 11.
INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the current or prospective risk to capital or earnings arising from adverse movements in interest rates.
The Groups exposure to this risk is a natural consequence of its lending, deposit taking and borrowing activities, as some of its financial assets and liabilities bear interest at rates which float with various market rates while others are fixed, either for a term or for their whole lives.
Such risk is referred to as Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book IRRBB.
The Group does not seek to generate income from taking interest rate risk and aims to minimise exposures that occur as a natural consequence of carrying out its normal business activities.
The Group has a dedicated Treasury function which is responsible for the day-to-day management of interest rate risk within Board approved limits.
Control and oversight is provided by ALCO which reports to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Groups risk management framework for IRRBB has been enhanced over the last year to reflect the BCBS Principles and methods expected to be used by banks for measuring, managing, monitoring and controlling such risks.
The Group will continue to develop these processes as interpretation of these standards becomes clearer as they become more widely implemented.
IRRBB is managed through Board approved risk appetite limits and policies.
The Group seeks to match the structure of assets and liabilities naturally where possible or by using appropriate financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps.
IRRBB exposures Risk exposure in the Groups operations might occur through: Gap or re-pricing risk.
The risk created when interest rates on assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items reprice at different times causing them to move by different amounts Basis risk.
The risk arising where assets and liabilities re-price with reference to different reference interest rates, for example Bank of England base rate and LIBOR.
Relative changes in the difference between the reference rates over time may impact earnings Option or prepayment risk.
The risk that settlement of asset and liability balances at different times from those forecast due to economic conditions or customer behaviour may create a mismatch in future periods Due to the maturity transformation inherent in the Groups business model it is also exposed to the risk that the relationship of the market rates affecting the shorter term funding balance to those affecting the longer term lending balance will have altered when the funding has to be refinanced.
PAGE 168 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Group measures these risks through a combination of economic value and earnings-based measures considering prepayment risk: Economic Value of Equity EVE a range of parallel and non-parallel interest rate stresses are applied to assess the change in market value from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items re-pricing at different times Net Interest Income NII - impact on earnings from a range of interest rate stresses Interest rate sensitivity To provide a broad indication of the Groups exposure to interest rate movements, the notional impact of a 1.0% change in UK interest rates on the equity of the Group at 30 September 2017, and the notional annualised impact of such a change on the operating profit of the Group, based on the year-end balance sheet have been calculated.
As a simplification this calculation assumes that all relevant UK interest rates move by the same amount in parallel and that all repricing takes place at the balance sheet date.
On this basis, a 1.0% increase in UK interest rates would reduce the Groups equity at 30 September 2017 by 2.1m 2016: 3.1m and increase profit before tax by 12.3m 2016: increase by 1.9m.
This calculation allows only for the direct effects of any change in UK interest rates.
In practice such a change might have wider economic consequences which would themselves potentially affect the Groups business and results.
Although certain of the Groups borrowings have interest rates dependent on US Dollar and Euro LIBOR rates, the effect of the cross currency basis swaps is such that the Groups results have no material exposure to movements in these rates.
The effects of independent 1.0% increases in US or Euro interest rates would be to increase the Groups equity by 0.3m 2016: 1.2m and 1.9m 2016: 2.3m respectively, however, in reality these movements would be mitigated by movements in UK interest rates and exchange rates.
It should be noted that these sensitivities are illustrative only, and much simplified from those used to manage IRRBB in practice.
The Company All the borrowings of the Company have fixed interest rates.
Assets and liabilities with other group companies bear interest at floating rates based on LIBOR which reset within three months of the balance sheet date: all other balances are non-interest bearing.
CURRENCY RISK The Group has very limited appetite for any uncovered exposure to foreign currency movements.
All of the Groups significant assets and liabilities are denominated in sterling with the exception of the asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros, which are described in note 45.
Although IAS 39 requires that they be accounted for as currency liabilities and valued at their spot rates, a condition of the issue of these notes was that bespoke interest rate and currency swaps cross-currency basis swaps were put in place for the duration of the borrowing, having the effect of converting the liability to a LIBOR linked floating rate sterling borrowing eliminating currency risk for these exposures.
The equivalent sterling principal amounts of notes in issue under the arrangements described above, and their carrying values at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 are: 2017 2017 2016 2016 Equivalent Carrying Equivalent Carrying sterling principal value sterling principal value m m m m US dollar notes 974.7 1,395.9 1,829.5 2,667.6 Euro notes 1,652.7 2,127.3 2,004.1 2,532.5 2,627.4 3,523.2 3,833.6 5,200.1 Where the asset finance business contracts to purchase assets for leasing in currency these liabilities are hedged by the purchase of appropriate currency balances.
As a result of these arrangements the Group has no material exposure to foreign currency risk, and no sensitivity analysis is presented for currency risk.
None of the assets or liabilities of the Company are denominated in foreign currenciess.
PAGE 169 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 13.
A CQUSITIONS During the year ended 30 September 2016, the Group acquired two businesses, Paragon Asset Finance PAF which changed its name from Paragon Bank Asset Finance after the year end on 3 November 2015 and Premier Asset Finance Premier on 30 September 2016.
No adjustments have been made in the year to the fair values at acquisition for PAF reported in the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2016 and these values are now therefore final.
Following the agreement of the completion accounts for Premier during the year the cash consideration payable was reduced by 0.3m and the goodwill balance has been adjusted accordingly note 41.
No other fair value balances at acquisition have been revised.
SE GMENT AL INF ORMA TION Following the reorganisation announced in the year, the Group now analyses its operations, both for internal management reporting and external financial reporting, on the basis of the markets from which its assets are generated.
The segments used are described below: Mortgages, including the Groups buy-to-let, and owner-occupied first and second charge lending and related activities Commercial Lending, including the Groups motor finance and other equipment leasing activities, together with other offerings targeted towards SME customers Idem Capital, including loan assets acquired from third parties and legacy assets which share certain credit characteristics with them Dedicated financing and administration costs of each of these businesses are allocated to the segment.
Shared central costs are not allocated between segments, nor is income from central cash balances or the carrying costs of unallocated savings balances.
Loans to customers and operating lease assets are allocated to segments as are dedicated securitisation funding arrangements and their related cross-currency basis swaps and cash balances.
Retail deposits and their related costs are allocated to the segments based on the utilisation of those deposits.
Retail deposits raised in advance of lending are not allocated.
Other assets and liabilities are not allocated between segments.
The costs arising in the year ended 30 September 2016 from the PAF and Premier acquisitions of 3.1m have not been allocated as they are not directly related to customer facing activity.
All of the Groups operations are conducted in the UK, all revenues arise from external customers and there are no inter-segment revenues.
No customer contributes more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
Financial information about these business segments, prepared on the same basis as used in the consolidated accounts of the Group, is shown below.
Year ended 30 September 2017 Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital Segments m m m m Interest receivable 274.7 33.8 98.9 407.4 Interest payable 123.6 10.6 11.4 145.6 Net interest income 151.1 23.2 87.5 261.8 Other operating income 9.6 9.9 0.7 20.2 Total operating income 160.7 33.1 88.2 282.0 Direct costs 13.7 18.9 10.8 43.4 Provisions for losses 3.7 0.1 1.5 5.3 143.3 14.1 75.9 233.3 PAGE 170 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Year ended 30 September 2016 Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital Segments m m m m Interest receivable 282.2 25.9 101.0 409.1 Interest payable 139.5 8.3 13.2 161.0 Net interest income 142.7 17.6 87.8 248.1 Other operating income 7.7 8.4 4.7 20.8 Total operating income 150.4 26.0 92.5 268.9 Direct costs 12.4 16.2 11.4 40.0 Provisions for losses 4.8 0.8 2.1 7.7 133.2 9.0 79.0 221.2 The segmental profits disclosed above reconcile to the group results as shown below.
2017 2016 m m Total segmental profit 233.3 221.2 Treasury interest income 1.8 2.3 Unallocated funding costs 31.0 27.2 Central administration costs 58.9 52.5 145.2 143.8 Fair value items 0.4 0.6 Operating profit 144.8 143.2 The assets and liabilities attributable to each of the segments at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 on the basis described above were: Note Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital Segments m m m m 30 September 2017 Segment assets Loans to customers 32 9,953.9 558.8 611.4 11,124.1 Operating lease assets 40 - 23.4 - 23.4 Cross currency basis swaps 38 896.3 - - 896.3 Securitisation cash 30 543.0 - 31.0 574.0 11,393.2 582.2 642.4 12,617.8 Segment liabilities Allocated deposits 3,401.2 686.9 249.8 4,337.9 Securitisation funding 7,597.1 - 184.7 7,781.8 10,998.3 686.9 434.5 12,119.7 PAGE 171 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Note Lending Capital Segments m m m m 30 September 2016 Segment assets Loans to customers 32 9,694.7 375.0 667.8 10,737.5 Operating lease assets 40 - 16.0 - 16.0 38 Cross currency basis swaps 1,364.8 - - 1,364.8 30 Securitisation cash 460.3 - 76.8 537.1 11,519.8 391.0 744.6 12,655.4 Segment liabilities Allocated deposits 1,091.1 494.9 254.6 1,840.6 Securitisation funding 9,668.6 - 278.5 9,947.1 10,759.7 494.9 533.1 11,787.7 An analysis of the Groups financial assets by type and segment is shown in note 32.
All of the assets shown above were located in the UK.
The additions to non-current assets, excluding financial assets, in the year which are included in segmental assets above are investments of 12.9m 2016: 8.7m in assets held for leasing under operating leases, included in the Commercial Lending segment.
No other fixed asset additions were allocated to segments.
The segmental assets and liabilities may be reconciled to the consolidated balance sheet as shown below.
2017 2016 m m Total segment assets 12,617.8 12,655.4 Unallocated assets Central cash and investments 922.9 707.6 Unallocated derivatives 10.3 1.6 Operational property, plant and equipment 22.8 23.2 Intangible assets 104.4 105.4 Other 4.0 25.2 Total assets 13,682.2 13,518.4 Total segment liabilities 12,119.7 11,787.7 Unallocated liabilities Unallocated retail deposits 722.5 33.3 Derivative financial instruments 7.1 15.8 Central bank borrowings 1,145.4 555.5 Tax liabilities 22.2 18.7 Retirement benefit obligations 29.8 58.4 Other 71.1 79.5 Total liabilities 12,672.8 12,548.9 PAGE 172 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 15.
REVENUE Note 2017 2016 m m Interest receivable 16 409.2 411.4 Operating lease income 18 14.4 13.0 19 Other income 17.2 17.8 Total revenue 440.8 442.2 Arising from: Mortgages 284.3 289.9 Commercial Finance 55.1 44.3 Idem Capital 99.6 105.7 Total revenue from segments 439.0 439.9 Unallocated revenue 1.8 2.3 Total revenue 440.8 442.2 16.
INTEREST RECEIVABLE 2017 2016 m m Interest receivable in respect of Loans and receivables 375.1 377.8 Finance leases 28.8 22.6 Factoring income 2.2 3.0 Interest on loans to customers 406.1 403.4 Other interest receivable 3.1 5.6 Income from structured entities - 2.4 Total interest on financial assets 409.2 411.4 Interest on loans to customers includes 3.9m 2016: 4.1m charged on accounts where an impairment provision has been made.
INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR CHARGES Note 2017 2016 m m On retail deposits 47.9 29.5 On asset backed loan notes 70.2 103.4 On central bank facilities 1.1 - On retail bonds 18.6 18.5 On corporate bonds 13.1 4.8 On bank loans and overdrafts 22.7 29.7 Total interest on financial liabilities 173.6 185.9 54 On pension scheme deficit 1.3 0.8 Discounting on contingent consideration 50 0.3 - Other finance costs 1.4 1.5 176.6 188.2 PAGE 173 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 18.
NET OPERATING LEASE INCOME Note 2017 2016 m m Income Operating lease rentals 9.7 7.9 Maintenance income 4.7 5.1 Total operating lease income 14.4 13.0 Costs Depreciation of lease assets 40 4.4 3.0 Maintenance salaries 21 1.7 2.0 Other maintenance costs 5.3 5.0 Total operating lease costs 11.4 10.0 Net operating lease income 3.0 3.0 19.
O THER INCOME 2017 2016 m m Loan account fee income 9.0 7.7 Broker commissions 3.6 1.3 Third party servicing 3.3 7.4 Other income 1.3 1.4 17.2 17.8 20.
OPERATING EXPENSES Note 2017 2016 m m 21 Employment costs 64.3 58.1 24 Auditor remuneration 1.1 1.2 Amortisation of intangible assets 41 1.6 1.6 Depreciation of operational assets 40 1.9 1.9 Operating lease rentals payable 63 2.6 2.6 Other administrative costs 30.8 27.1 102.3 92.5 PAGE 174 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 21.
EMPL O YEES The average number of persons including directors employed by the Group during the year was 1,317 2016: 1,249.
The number of employees at the end of the year was 1,344 2016: 1,299.
Costs incurred during the year in respect of these employees were: 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Share based remuneration 4.2 4.4 Other wages and salaries 51.4 47.8 Total wages and salaries 55.6 52.2 National Insurance on share based remuneration 1.0 0.1 Other social security costs 5.1 4.5 Total social security costs 6.1 4.4 Defined benefit pension cost 2.4 1.7 Other pension costs 1.9 1.8 Total pension costs 4.3 3.5 Total employment costs 66.0 60.1 Of which Included in operating expenses note 20 64.3 58.1 Included in maintenance costs note 18 1.7 2.0 66.0 60.1 Details of the pension schemes operated by the Group are given in note 54.
The Company has no employees.
Details of the directors remuneration are given in note 22.
KEY MANAGEMENT REMUNERATION The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group and the Company, is set out below in aggregate in accordance with IAS 24 Related Party Transactions.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Annual Remuneration Report in Section B5.2.
2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m Salaries and fees 1.6 1.6 Cash amount of bonus 1.4 1.1 Social security costs 0.6 0.5 Short-term employee benefits 3.6 3.2 Post-employment benefits 1.4 0.4 IFRS 2 cost in respect of directors 1.9 1.9 National Insurance thereon 0.4 0.2 Share based payment 2.3 2.1 7.3 5.7 Post-employment benefits shown above are shown as pension allowance in Section B5.2.
Costs in respect of share awards shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration are determined on a different basis to the IFRS 2 charge shown above.
Social security costs paid in respect of directors are required to be included in this note by IAS 24, but do not fall within the scope of the disclosures in the Directors Remuneration Report.
PAGE 175 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 23.
SHARE BASED REMUNERATION During the year, the Group had various share based payment arrangements with employees.
They are accounted for by the Group and the Company as shown below.
The effect of the share based payment arrangements on the Groups profit is shown in note 21.
Further details of share based payment arrangements are given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration in Section B5.2.
A summary of the number of share awards outstanding under each scheme at 30 September 2017 and at 30 September 2016 is set out below.
Number Number 2017 2016 a Sharesave Plan 3,113,587 3,236,126 b Performance Share Plan 5,103,963 5,834,558 c Conditional Share Option Plan 390,746 - d Deferred Bonus Plan 445,252 422,245 e Matching Share Plan - 9,969 f Restricted Stock Units 60,115 - 9,113,663 9,502,898 a Sharesave plan The Group operates an All Employee Share Option Sharesave plan.
Grants under this scheme vest, in the normal course, after the completion of the appropriate service period and subject to a savings requirement.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of Sharesave options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 is shown below.
2017 2017 2016 2016 Number Weighted Number Weighted average average exercise price exercise price p p Options outstanding At 1 October 2016 3,236,126 255.27 2,343,499 305.19 Granted in the year 690,540 341.76 2,339,040 249.44 Exercised or surrendered in the year 637,607 247.16 55,827 105.51 Lapsed during the year 175,472 265.03 1,390,586 334.95 At 30 September 2017 3,113,587 275.56 3,236,126 255.27 Options exercisable - - - - The weighted average remaining contractual life of options outstanding at 30 September 2017 was 28.6 months 2016: 30.8 months.
The weighted average market price at exercise for share options exercised in the year was 414.02p 2016: 334.01p.
The fair value of options granted is determined using a binomial model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016, are shown below.
Grant date 28 07 17 28 07 17 20 06 16 20 06 16 Number of awards granted 628,762 61,778 1,855,602 483,438 Market price at date of grant 428.5p 428.5p 297.1p 297.1p Contractual life years 3.5 5.5 3.5 5.5 Fair value per share at date of grant 0.88 0.81 0.50 0.52 Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 28.49% 27.47% 26.62% 29.47% Expected life at grant date years 3.45 5.44 3.46 5.45 Risk-free interest rate 0.67% 0.88% 0.84% 0.98% Expected dividend yield 3.24% 3.24% 3.94% 3.94% Expected annual departures 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% 5.00% The expected volatility of the share price used in determining the fair value for the three-year schemes is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
The five-year schemes use share price data for the preceding five years.
PAGE 177 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b Paragon Performance Share Plan Awards under this plan comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and will vest on the third anniversary of their granting, to the extent that the applicable performance criteria have been satisfied, if the holder is still employed by the Group.
The awards will lapse to the extent that the performance condition has not been satisfied on the third anniversary.
Awards are exercisable from the date on which the Remuneration Committee determines the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied to the day before the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
Clawback provisions apply to awards granted under the PSP as detailed in the remuneration policy.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test.
The TSR test compares the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250.
25% of the TSR tested awards vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The EPS test provides that 25% of EPS tested awards will vest where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 3%, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 7% or more.
In each case the testing period is the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test as described above, except that full vesting of the EPS tested awards takes place where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 13% or more.
50% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 25% are subject to an EPS test as described at above, except that the comparator group for the TSR test is limited to 13 listed financial service entities rather than the entire FTSE-250.
25% of these awards are subject to risk performance conditions which take in to account factors deemed appropriate by the Remuneration Committee, who will ultimately decide the extent to which the risk condition has been satisfied.
Once the outcomes of these tests have been determined the gross number of awards vesting will be reduced so that the gain to the recipient from the PSP and the CSOP described below is equal to the gain from the gross PSP vesting.
The fair value of awards granted under the PSP is determined using a Monte Carlo simulation model, to take account of the effect of the market based condition.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 are shown below: Grant date 01 12 16 22 12 15 Number of awards granted 1,450,486 1,487,166 Market price at date of grant 369.40p 362.70p Fair value per share at date of grant 245.73p 204.46p Inputs to valuation model Expected volatility 29.55% 24.99% Risk-free interest rate 0.76% 1.21% Expected dividend yield 3.65% 3.03% For all of the above grants the contractual life and expected life at grant date is three years and no departures are expected.
The expected volatility for awards granted between 18 July 2008 and 30 September 2008 is based on the annualised standard deviation of daily changes in price over the six years preceding the grant date.
The expected volatility for awards granted after this date is calculated using the same method but using daily changes in price over the three years preceding the grant date.
The effect of the CSOPs is not allowed for in the IFRS 2 market values of the 2016 grant.
PAGE 178 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts c Company Share Option Plan CSOP The Company has, in the current year, started to utilise the tax-advantaged element of the PSP under which CSOP options can be granted.
The CSOPs may be exercised alongside their accompanying PSPs based upon the exercise price that was set at the grant date.
Each member of staff may be granted up to a maximum total value of 30,000 of tax benefitted options.
A reconciliation of movements in the number and weighted average exercise price of CSOP options over 1 ordinary shares during the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 is shown below.
2017 2017 2016 2016 Number Weighted Number Weighted average average exercise price exercise price p p Options outstanding At 1 October 2016 - - - - Granted in the year 404,499 361.88 - - Exercised or surrendered in the year - - - - Lapsed during the year 13,753 361.88 - - At 30 September 2017 390,746 361.88 - - Options exercisable - - - - The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 were: Grant date Period exercisable Exercise price Number Number 2017 2016 01 12 2016 01 12 2019 to 30 11 2026 361.88p 390,746 - 390,746 - 66.7% of these awards are subject to a TSR test and 33.3% are subject to an EPS test.
These tests operate in the same manner and with the same conditions as those for the PSP grant of the same date.
To the extent that the CSOP awards vest, the vesting of the PSP award granted at the same time will be abated so that the overall gain to the grantee is the same as would be received on the related PSP award had the CSOP not been in place.
No separate fair value has been attributed to the CSOP options for IFRS 2 purposes as the IFRS 2 market values for the CSOP and PSP combined will equate to that calculated for the PSP without allowing for the CSOP.
The benefit from the CSOP is in relation to the employees tax position, which does not affect the IFRS 2 charge.
d Deferred Bonus awards Awards under these plans comprise a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment.
PAGE 179 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The Deferred Bonus shares granted in December 2016 do not accrue dividends over the vesting period unlike earlier grants.
The fair value of Deferred Bonus awards issued in the year was determined using a Black-Scholes Merton model.
Details of the awards over 1 ordinary shares made in the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 are shown below.
Grant date 01 12 16 22 12 15 Number of awards granted 105,318 134,524 Market price at date of grant 369.4p 362.7p Fair value per share at date of grant 331.1p 362.7p Inputs to valuation model Risk-free interest rate 0.75% 1.21% Expected dividend yield 3.65% N A e Matching Share Plan Awards under this plan comprised a right to acquire ordinary shares in the Company for nil or nominal payment and vested on the third anniversary of their granting to the extent that the applicable performance criteria had been satisfied, if the holder was still employed by the Group.
The entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2017 and at 30 September 2016 were: Grant date Period exercisable Number Number 2017 2016 02 01 2008 02 01 2011 to 02 01 2018 - 9,969 - 9,969 The plan lapsed in February 2016 and was not renewed.
Therefore no further awards will be made under it.
f Restricted Stock Units RSUs The Company, in the current year, has permitted certain employees to elect to receive RSU awards instead of PSP awards.
RSU awards have vesting conditions based upon the grantees personal performance including a risk element rather than conditions in the wider business.
These conditions are determined to be met to the extent to which the Remuneration Committee deems that to be the case.
The conditional entitlements outstanding under this scheme at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 were: Grant date Period exercisable Number Number 2017 2016 01 12 2016 01 12 2019 to 30 11 2026 60,115 - 60,115 - The fair value of RSU awards issued in the year was determined using a Black-Scholes Merton model.
Grant date 01 12 16 Number of awards granted 60,115 Market price at date of grant 369.4p Fair value per share at date of grant 369.4p Inputs to valuation model Risk-free interest rate 0.75% Expected dividend yield 3.65% PAGE 180 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 24.
AUDITOR REMUNERATION The analysis of fees payable to the Companys auditors KPMG LLP and their associates, excluding irrecoverable VAT, required by the Companies Disclosure of Auditor Remuneration and Liability Limitation Agreements Regulations 2008 is set out below.
This analysis includes amounts charged to the profit and loss account or included within the issue costs of debt in respect of fees paid to the Group auditors and their associates.
2017 2016 000 000 Audit fee of the company 142 119 Other services Audit of subsidiary undertakings pursuant to legislation 703 633 Total audit fees 845 752 Audit related assurance services Interim review 60 57 Other services 52 103 Total fees 957 912 Irrecoverable VAT 191 182 Total cost to the Group 1,148 1,094 Of which: Charged to profit and loss account note 20 1,121 1,094 Included in issue costs of debt 27 - Total cost to the Group 1,148 1,094 Fees paid to the auditors and their associates for non-audit services to the Company are not disclosed because the consolidated accounts of the Group are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis.
PROVISIONS FOR LOSSES 2017 2016 m m Impairment of financial assets note 35 First mortgage loans 3.7 4.8 Second charge mortgage loans 0.4 0.4 Finance lease receivables - 0.6 Development finance loans - - Other loans 1.2 1.9 5.3 7.7 PAGE 181 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 26.
FAIR VALUE NET LOSSES 2017 2016 m m Net profit loss on derivatives designated as fair value hedges 14.6 7.2 Fair value adjustments from hedge accounting 13.2 6.5 Ineffectiveness of fair value hedges 1.4 0.7 Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges - - Net loss gains on other derivatives 1.8 0.1 0.4 0.6 The fair value net loss represents the accounting volatility on derivative instruments which are matching risk exposure on an economic basis generated by the requirements of IAS 39.
Some accounting volatility arises on these items due to accounting ineffectiveness on designated hedges, or because hedge accounting has not been adopted or is not achievable on certain items.
The losses and gains are primarily due to timing differences in income recognition between the derivative instruments and the economically hedged assets and liabilities.
Such differences will reverse over time and have no impact on the cash flows of the Group.
Foreign exchange gains of 468.9m note 62 on asset backed loan notes denominated in US dollars and euros 2016: losses of 699.9m have been offset against the movements on the cross currency basis swaps used to hedge these liabilities as part of the cash flow hedge accounting treatment applied.
TAX CHARGE ON PROFIT ON ORDINARY ACTIVITIES a Analysis of charge in the year 2017 2016 m m Current tax UK Corporation Tax on profits of the period 31.7 28.2 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 1.3 0.6 Total current tax 30.4 27.6 Deferred tax 2.8 0.4 Tax charge on profit on ordinary activities 27.6 27.2 b Deferred tax credit for the year The deferred tax charge in the income statement comprises the following temporary differences: 2017 2016 m m Accelerated tax depreciation 0.4 0.3 Retirement benefit obligations 0.1 0.1 Impairment and other provisions 1.5 0.6 Utilisation of tax losses - 0.1 Other timing differences 1.5 0.1 Deferred tax credit charge for the year 3.3 0.4 Prior period adjustment 0.5 0.1 Change in tax rate - 0.7 Deferred tax credit note 53 2.8 0.4 During the year ended 30 September 2015 the UK Government substantively enacted provisions reducing the rate of corporation tax from 20.0% to 19.0% with effect from 1 April 2017 and to 18.0% from 1 April 2020.
The tax rate applying from 1 April 2020 was further reduced to 17.0% during the year ended 30 September 2016.
PAGE 182 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Therefore, the standard rate of corporation tax applicable to the Group for the year ended 30 September 2016 was 20.0%, the rate in the year ended 30 September 2017 was 19.5%, the rate in the years ending 30 September 2018 and 30 September 2019 is expected to be 19.0%, the rate in the year ending 30 September 2020 is expected to be 18.0% and the rate in subsequent years is expected to be 17.0%.
The expected impact on deferred tax balances of the changes to 19.0% and 17.0% was accounted for in the year ended 30 September 2016. c Factors affecting tax charge for the year The Group operates wholly in the UK and all but a nominal amount of the Groups income arises in UK resident companies.
Consequently, it is appropriate to use the prevailing UK corporation tax rate as the comparator to the effective tax rate.
As noted in b above, the UK Corporation tax rate applicable to the Group for the year was 19.5% 2016: 20.0%.
2017 2016 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 144.8 143.2 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the UK standard rate of corporation tax 28.2 28.6 Effects of: Permanent differences - Disallowable acquisition costs - 0.3 - Income from structured entities 0.7 0.8 - Recurring disallowable expenditure and similar items 0.3 0.2 Mismatch in timing differences 0.6 0.3 Change in rate of taxation on deferred tax assets and liabilities - 0.7 Prior year credit 0.8 0.7 Tax charge for the year 27.6 27.2 The income from the Groups investment in structured entities is recognised in the income statement net of taxes incurred by the structured entities and consequently appears as a reconciling item in the tax charge.
The timing difference mismatch arises because tax relief for share based payments is given on a different basis from that on which the accounting charge for the provision of these awards is recognised under IFRS 2.
The expected changes to UK corporation tax rates accounted for in 2016 have reduced the rates at which temporary differences are expected to reverse, resulting in a tax credit.
d Factors affecting future tax charges As practically all of the Groups profit is subject to UK corporation tax the effective tax rate is expected to fall in line with the reductions in the standard rate described above.
The banking surcharge was introduced with effect from 1 January 2016.
This subjects any taxable profits arising in the Groups banking subsidiary, Paragon Bank PLC and no other Group entity, to an additional 8.0% of tax to the extent these profits exceed 25.0m.
The impact of this surcharge is expected to increase the Groups effective tax rate in future periods.
The Group includes a leasing business in PAF.
Whilst such businesses do not, in general, have significant permanent differences, the taxable profits in a given accounting period are usually significantly different from the accounting profits due to temporary differences.
Consequently, the acquisition will have no material impact on the effective tax rate, but may have on the Groups tax payments.
As a wholly based UK business the Group does not expect to be significantly impacted by the OECD project on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS.
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO MEMBERS OF PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC The Companys profit after tax for the financial year amounted to 47.4m 2016: 82.4m.
A separate income statement has not been prepared for the Company under the provisions of Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has no other items of comprehensive income for the years ended 30 September 2017 or 30 September 2016.
PAGE 183 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 29.
EARNINGS PER SHARE Earnings per ordinary share is calculated as follows: 2017 2016 Profit for the year m 117.2 116.0 Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 271.6 286.5 Dilutive effect of the weighted average number of share options and incentive plans in issue during the year million 8.0 5.5 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the year million 279.6 292.0 Earnings per ordinary share - basic 43.1p 40.5p - diluted 41.9p 39.7p 30.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2017 2016 2015 m m m Balances with central banks 615.0 315.0 286.0 Balances with other banks 881.9 922.6 770.0 Cash and cash equivalents 1,496.9 1,237.6 1,056.0 Only Free Cash is unrestrictedly available for the Groups general purposes.
Cash received in respect of loan assets funded through warehouse facilities and securitisations is not immediately available, due to the terms of those arrangements.
This cash is shown as securitisation cash below.
Balances with central banks form part of the liquidity buffer of Paragon Bank PLC and are therefore not available for the Groups general purposes.
Cash held by the Trustees of the Paragon Employee Share Ownership Plans may only be used to invest in the shares of the Company, pursuant to the aims of those plans.
This is shown as ESOP cash below.
The total consolidated Cash and Cash Equivalents balance may be analysed as shown below: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Free cash 305.5 383.1 237.2 Securitisation cash 574.0 537.1 530.9 Liquidity buffer 615.0 315.0 286.0 ESOP cash 2.4 2.4 1.9 1,496.9 1,237.6 1,056.0 The Cash and Cash Equivalents amount of 277.6m 2016: 361.3m: 2015: 196.8m shown in the Company balance sheet is included in Free Cash.
Cash and Cash Equivalents includes current bank balances, money market placements and fixed rate sterling term deposits with London banks, and balances with the Bank of England.
SHORT TERM INVESTMENTS This amount represented fixed rate securities issued by the UK Government for which a liquid market exists and which were held as part of the liquidity requirement of Paragon Bank PLC.
As such they were designated as Available for Sale, as defined by IAS 39 - Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and consequently shown at fair value which corresponded to their market value.
The Banks liquidity requirements are currently met through central bank deposits and liquidity facilities and therefore it is no longer necessary to hold treasury bills.
There were no securities held at 30 September 2017.
The total nominal value of the securities at 30 September 2016 was 7.0m, the weighted average coupon was 1.75% and their carrying value was 7.1m.
PAGE 184 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 32.
LOANS TO CUSTOMERS Note 2017 2016 2015 m m m Loans and receivables 33 10,636.1 10,391.8 10,019.0 Finance lease receivables 34 488.0 345.7 43.4 Loans to customers 11,124.1 10,737.5 10,062.4 36 Fair value adjustments from portfolio hedging 8.7 12.5 5.2 11,115.4 10,750.0 10,067.6 The movements in the Groups investment in loans to customers in the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 were: 2017 2016 m m Cost At 1 October 2016 10,737.5 10,062.4 Acquisitions note 13 - 221.7 Additions 1,965.9 1,654.0 Disposals 18.5 - Effective Interest Rate EIR adjustments 85.5 54.9 Other debits 298.5 326.6 Provision charge note 35 5.3 7.7 Repayments and redemptions 1,939.5 1,574.4 At 30 September 2017 11,124.1 10,737.5 Other debits includes primarily interest and fees charged to customers on loans outstanding.
The Groups loan assets at 30 September 2017, analysed between the segments described in note 14 are as follows: Mortgages Commercial Idem Total Lending Capital m m m m At 30 September 2017 First mortgages 9,855.5 - - 9,855.5 Consumer loans 98.4 - 611.4 709.8 Motor finance - 163.0 - 163.0 Asset finance - 325.0 - 325.0 Development finance - 42.3 - 42.3 Other loans - 28.5 - 28.5 Loans to customers 9,953.9 558.8 611.4 11,124.1 At 30 September 2016 First mortgages 9,640.6 - - 9,640.6 Consumer loans 54.1 - 667.8 721.9 Motor finance - 95.3 - 95.3 Asset finance - 250.4 - 250.4 Development finance - 9.1 - 9.1 Other loans - 20.2 - 20.2 Loans to customers 9,694.7 375.0 667.8 10,737.5 PAGE 185 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 33.
LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Loans and receivables at 30 September 2017, 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015, which are all denominated and payable in sterling, were: 2017 2016 2015 m m m First mortgage loans 9,855.5 9,640.6 9,410.8 Second charge mortgage loans 490.7 526.8 387.1 Other unsecured consumer loans 219.1 195.1 221.1 Development finance loans 42.3 9.1 - Other loans 28.5 20.2 - 10,636.1 10,391.8 10,019.0 First mortgage loans have a contractual term of up to thirty years, second charge mortgage loans up to twenty five years and other unsecured loans up to ten years.
In all cases the borrower is entitled to settle the loan at any point and in most cases early settlement does take place.
All borrowers are required to make monthly payments, except where an initial deferred period is included in the contractual terms.
First mortgages are secured on residential property within the UK: second charge mortgage loans enjoy second charges on residential property.
The estimated value of the security held against those loans above which are considered to be impaired or past due, representing, for each such account, the lesser of the outstanding balance on the loan and the estimated valuation of the property was: 2017 2016 m m First mortgage loans 22.4 34.2 Second charge mortgage loans 69.4 81.0 91.8 115.2 The development finance loans have a maximum contractual term of 24 months and an average term of 17 months.
Settlement of principal and accrued interest takes place once the development is sold or refinanced following its completion and the customer is not normally required to make payments during the term of the loan.
The loans are secured by a legal charge over the site and or property together with other charges and warranties related to the build.
Other loans include principally invoice factoring, discounted receivables and other short term commercial balances.
PAGE 186 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The amounts of the loan assets above pledged as collateral under the central bank facilities described in note 49 or under the external funding arrangements described in notes 45 and 46 are shown below.
The table also shows assets prepositioned with the Bank of England for use in future drawings.
FINANCE LEASE RECEIVABLES The Groups finance lease receivables are motor finance and asset finance loans.
The average contractual life of the motor finance loans is 33 months 2016: 49 months while that of the asset finance loans was 42 months 2016: 42 months, but it is likely that a significant proportion of customers will choose to settle their obligations early.
The Groups finance leases can be analysed as shown below: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Motor finance 163.0 95.3 43.4 Asset finance 325.0 250.4 - Carrying value 488.0 345.7 43.4 The minimum lease payments due under these loan agreements are: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 174.9 133.0 12.8 Within two to five years 357.6 255.8 36.1 After five years 17.8 7.6 - 550.3 396.4 48.9 Less: future finance income 58.3 47.7 4.9 Present value 492.0 348.7 44.0 PAGE 187 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The present values of those payments, net of provisions for impairment, carried in the accounts are: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Amounts receivable Within one year 151.9 116.1 11.5 Within two to five years 323.8 225.8 32.5 After five years 16.3 6.8 - Present value 492.0 348.7 44.0 Allowance for uncollectible amounts 4.0 3.0 0.6 Carrying value 488.0 345.7 43.4 Whilst on motor finance cases the Group has the benefit of the underlying vehicle as security on these loans, no account of this is taken in the allowance for uncollectible amounts shown above.
The Group has insufficient information on the current condition of finance leased vehicles to derive a reliable estimate of the value which could be realised from vehicles to offset against arrears accounts.
Accordingly, no such disclosure is provided.
For the Groups asset finance loans, estimated valuations of security assets for balances in arrears are undertaken as part of the credit management process.
These exercises suggest that the security value of assets under finance leases which are past due or impaired is 12.2m 2016: 6.7m.
The Groups finance lease receivables pledged as collateral for liabilities at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016 were: 2017 2016 m m In respect of: Asset backed loan notes - 0.1 Total pledged as collateral - 0.1 Other assets not pledged as collateral 488.0 345.6 488.0 345.7 35.
IMPAIRMENT PROVISIONS ON LOANS TO CUSTOMERS The following amounts in respect of impairment provisions, net of allowances for recoveries of written off assets, have been deducted from the appropriate assets in the balance sheet.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m At 1 October 2015 86.0 24.4 0.6 111.0 Amounts provided in the period 4.9 2.7 1.9 9.5 Amounts written off 2.1 4.5 1.3 7.9 At 30 September 2016 88.8 22.6 1.2 112.6 Amounts provided in the period 3.8 2.3 2.2 8.3 Amounts written off 3.5 6.6 0.2 10.3 At 30 September 2017 89.1 18.3 3.2 110.6 Of the above balances, the following provisions were held in respect of realised losses not charged off, which remain on the balance sheet and provided for in full.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m At 30 September 2017 76.4 0.3 0.3 77.0 At 30 September 2016 72.4 0.1 0.1 72.6 PAGE 188 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The amounts charged to the profit and loss account, net of recoveries of previously provided amounts are set out below.
First Other loans Finance Total mortgages and receivables leases m m m m Year ended 30 September 2017 Amounts provided in the year 3.8 2.3 2.2 8.3 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.1 0.7 2.2 3.0 Net impairment for year note 25 3.7 1.6 - 5.3 Year ended 30 September 2016 Amounts provided in the year 4.9 2.7 1.9 9.5 Recovery of amounts previously provided 0.1 0.1 1.6 1.8 Net impairment for year note 25 4.8 2.6 0.3 7.7 36.
FAIR VALUE ADJUSTMENTS FROM PORTFOLIO HEDGING The Group applies fair value hedge accounting in respect of portfolios of loan assets note 32 and retail deposits note 44 where the appropriate criteria are met.
In these circumstances the change in the fair value of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk is shown under this heading next to the carrying value of the hedged assets or liabilities in the appropriate note.
INVESTMENT IN STRUCTURED ENTITIES Investments in structured entities represent the Groups contribution made to special purpose vehicle SPV companies established and controlled by unrelated third parties to purchase pools of loan assets.
All such investments are denominated in sterling, unlisted and are considered to be debt investments as defined by IFRS.
The underlying loans are secured and unsecured consumer loans made to UK borrowers.
The Group is under no obligation to make any further contribution to these entities.
The movements in the Groups investment in structured entities in the year ended 30 September 2017 and the year ended 30 September 2016 were: 2017 2016 m m Cost At 1 October 2016 - 18.1 Additions - - Effective Interest Rate EIR income note 16 - 2.4 Payments received - 20.5 At 30 September 2017 - - The Group administered the assets of the SPV companies on behalf of the owners.
Fee income derived from this activity of nil 2016: 0.5m is included within third party servicing fees note 19 and nil 2016: nil is included in other receivables note 39 in respect of unpaid fees at the year end.
PAGE 189 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 38.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Use of derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes.
Such instruments are contracts with counterparties and are used only to reduce or eliminate the exposure of the Group to movements in market interest or exchange rates.
It is, and has been throughout the year under review, the Groups policy not to trade in financial instruments, and hence all of the Groups derivative financial instruments are for hedging purposes only.
These are used to protect the Group from exposures principally arising from fixed rate lending or borrowing and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
Hedge accounting is applied where appropriate, though some derivatives, while forming part of an economic hedge relationship, do not qualify for this accounting treatment under the IAS 39 rules, while in other cases hedge accounting has not been adopted either because natural accounting offsets are expected or because complying with the IAS 39 hedge accounting rules would be particularly onerous.
The Group has designated a number of derivatives as fair value hedges for accounting purposes.
In particular this treatment is used for: a hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate prepayable loan assets with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis: and b hedging the interest rate risk of groups of fixed rate retail deposits with interest rate derivatives on a portfolio basis.
In both cases the Group believes this solution is the most appropriate as it is consistent with the economic hedging approach taken by the Group to these assets and liabilities.
As interest rate swaps are used to hedge pipeline exposures which are not yet recognised on the balance sheet an unmatched fair value cost or credit can arise until both sides of the hedge are recognised, generally a few months after the inception of the derivative contract.
The Groups securitisation borrowings are denominated in sterling, euros and US dollars.
All currency borrowings are swapped at inception using bespoke cross-currency basis swaps with principal amortisation and interest rates linked to the underlying borrowing.
The currency borrowings therefore have the effect of sterling borrowings.
These swaps provide an effective economic hedge against exchange rate and interest movements, but accounting standards require that they are carried at fair value leading, when exchange rates have moved significantly since the issue of the notes, to large balances for the swaps being carried in the balance sheet.
This is currently the case with both euro and US dollar swaps, although the debit balance is compensated for by retranslating the borrowings at the current exchange rate.
Cash flow hedging relationships have been designated in respect of these arrangements.
Analysis of derivative financial instruments The analysis below splits derivatives between those accounted for as part of the portfolio fair value and cash flow hedges described above and those which, despite representing an economic hedge, do not qualify for this treatment.
There were no individual interest rate risk hedging arrangements in place either in the year ended 30 September 2017 or the preceding year.
2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Notional Assets Liabilities Notional Assets Liabilities amount amount m m m m m m Derivatives in accounting hedge relationships Fair value hedges Interest rate swaps 3,213.9 8.8 6.4 1,933.9 1.3 14.5 Cash flow hedges Cross currency basis swaps 2,627.4 896.3 - 3,833.6 1,364.8 - 5,841.3 905.1 6.4 5,767.5 1,366.1 14.5 Other derivatives Interest rate swaps 507.4 1.5 0.7 347.7 0.3 1.3 Total recognised derivative assets liabilities 6,348.7 906.6 7.1 6,115.2 1,366.4 15.8 At 30 September 2017 cash deposits of 723.6m had been pledged as collateral in respect of swaps shown above by the respective swap counterparties 2016: 1,184.2m as described in note 9.
PAGE 190 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 39.
SUNDRY ASSETS a The Group 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current assets Accrued interest income 0.2 0.3 0.4 Trade receivables 4.2 2.4 - Prepayments 2.8 2.6 1.9 Bank borrowings - - 1.0 CSA Assets 2.0 3.7 0.9 CRDs 1.6 0.6 - Other tax 0.2 0.8 - Other receivables 1.7 2.3 2.0 12.7 12.7 6.2 The Group uses the International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA Master Agreement for documenting certain derivative activity within Paragon Bank.
For certain counterparties a Credit Support Annex CSA has been executed in conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Under a CSA, collateral is passed between counterparties to mitigate the market contingent counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding positions.
Collateral pledged to such counterparties by the Group is shown in the table above.
Cash ratio deposits CRDs are non-interest bearing deposits lodged with the Bank of England, based on the value of the Banks eligible liabilities.
Accrued interest income, CSA assets, CRDs and other receivables fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32. b The Company 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current assets Amounts owed by Group companies 40.1 84.5 141.2 Accrued interest income - 0.1 0.1 40.1 84.6 141.3 Accrued interest income and other debtors fall within the definition of financial assets given in IAS 32.
PAGE 191 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 40.
Leased assets includes 16.5m in respect of assets leased under operating leases 2016: 11.4m and 6.9m of assets available for hire 2016: 4.6m.
b The Company Land and buildings m Cost At 1 October 2015, 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2017 19.9 Accumulated depreciation At 1 October 2015 0.6 Charge for the year 0.4 At 30 September 2016 1.0 Charge for the year 0.3 At 30 September 2017 1.3 Net book value At 30 September 2017 18.6 At 30 September 2016 18.9 At 30 September 2015 19.3 PAGE 192 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 41.
INT ANGIBLE ASSETS Goodwill Computer Other intangible Total note 42 software assets m m m m Cost At 1 October 2015 7.6 5.6 8.1 21.3 Acquisitions 96.8 - 1.1 97.9 Additions - 1.4 - 1.4 At 30 September 2016 104.4 7.0 9.2 120.6 Acquisitions note 13 0.3 - - 0.3 Additions - 0.9 - 0.9 At 30 September 2017 104.1 7.9 9.2 121.2 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 October 2015 6.0 4.0 3.6 13.6 Amortisation charge for the year - 0.9 0.7 1.6 At 30 September 2016 6.0 4.9 4.3 15.2 Amortisation charge for the year - 1.0 0.6 1.6 At 30 September 2017 6.0 5.9 4.9 16.8 Net book value At 30 September 2017 98.1 2.0 4.3 104.4 At 30 September 2016 98.4 2.1 4.9 105.4 At 30 September 2015 1.6 1.6 4.5 7.7 Other intangible assets comprise brands and the benefit of business networks recognised on the acquisition of subsidiary companies.
PAGE 193 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 42.
GOODWILL The goodwill carried in the accounts is attributable to two cash generating units, as analysed below: 2017 2016 m m Asset finance 96.5 96.8 TBMC 1.6 1.6 At 30 September 2017 98.1 98.4 a Asset finance The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the asset finance cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisitions of PAF and Premier in the year ended 30 September 2016.
An impairment review undertaken at 30 September 2017 indicated that no write down was required.
The recoverable amount of the asset finance cash generating unit used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 15.3% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated assuming no lending growth beyond that point.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the asset finance cash generating unit are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on the Groups cost of capital As an illustration of the sensitivity of this impairment test to movements in the key assumptions, the Group has calculated that a 10.3% reduction in profit levels coupled with a 1.2% increase in the pre-tax discount rate would eliminate the headroom in the projection.
b TBMC The goodwill carried in the accounts relating to the TBMC cash generating unit was recognised on the acquisition of The Business Mortgage Company Limited and its subsidiaries TBMC in December 2008 and impaired by 6.0m in 2009.
An impairment review was undertaken at 30 September 2017 which indicated no further impairment.
The recoverable amount of TBMC used in this impairment testing is determined on a value in use basis using pre-tax cash flow projections based on financial budgets approved by the Board covering a five year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow projection is 5.4% and cash flows beyond the five year budget are extrapolated using a 2.0% growth rate, being the average long term growth rate in the UK economy over a twenty year period.
The key assumptions underlying the value in use calculation for the TBMC business are: Level of business activity, based on management expectations.
Management have concluded that the levels of activity assumed for the purpose of this forecast are reasonable, based on past experience and the current economic environment Discount rate, which is based on market rates of interest plus a margin appropriate to the risk profile of the TBMC business as an investment.
The directors believe that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions above would cause the carrying value of the unit to exceed its recoverable amount.
PAGE 194 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 43.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Shares in Group Loans to Group Loans to ESOP Total companies companies Trusts m m m m At 1 October 2015 346.5 668.3 3.5 1,018.3 Investments in subsidiaries 174.1 - - 174.1 Disposal of subsidiaries - - - - Loans advanced - 30.2 9.8 40.0 Loans repaid - 246.6 - 246.6 Provision movements 1.2 - 0.2 1.0 At 30 September 2016 519.4 451.9 13.5 984.8 Investments in subsidiaries 378.6 - - 378.6 Disposal of subsidiaries 150.0 - - 150.0 Loans advanced - 88.9 4.2 93.1 Loans repaid - 494.5 - 494.5 Provision movements 11.4 - 4.3 7.1 At 30 September 2017 759.4 46.3 13.4 819.1 Investments in and disposals of subsidiaries represent transactions between the Company and various of its subsidiaries.
In the year ended 30 September 2017 these transactions were mostly related to the Group restructuring in September 2017.
Crystallisation of provisions as a result of these transfers is the major component of the provision movements in the period.
During the year ended 30 September 2017 the Company received 44.7m in dividend income from its subsidiaries 2016: 82.0m and 27.0m of interest on loans to Group companies 2016: 33.6m.
The Companys subsidiaries, and the nature of its interest in them, are shown in note 65.
RETAIL DEPOSITS The Groups retail deposits, held by Paragon Bank PLC, were received from customers in the UK and are denominated in sterling.
The deposits comprise principally term deposits and 120 day notice accounts.
The method of interest calculation on these deposits is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Fixed rate 2,675.9 1,332.5 508.3 Variable rates 939.5 541.4 200.4 3,615.4 1,873.9 708.7 The weighted average interest rate on retail deposits at 30 September 2017, analysed by charging method, was: 2017 2016 2015 % % % Fixed rate 1.89 2.11 2.33 Variable rates 1.21 1.65 1.62 PAGE 195 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The contractual maturity of these deposits is analysed below.
ASSET BACKED LOAN NOTES The Groups asset backed loan notes notes are secured on portfolios comprising variable and fixed rate mortgages or personal, retail and car loans.
The maturity date of the notes matches the maturity date of the underlying assets except as noted below.
The notes can be prepaid in part from time to time, but such prepayments are limited to the net capital received from borrowers in respect of the underlying assets.
There is no requirement for the Group to make good any shortfall on the notes out of general funds.
It is likely that a substantial proportion of these notes will be repaid within five years.
For its public issues, the Group has an additional option to repay all of the notes at an earlier date the call date, at their outstanding principal amount.
Interest is payable at a fixed margin above: The London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR on notes denominated in sterling The Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR on notes denominated in euros The London Interbank Offered Rate US Dollar LIBOR on notes denominated in US dollars All payments in respect of the notes are required to be made in the currency in which they are denominated.
All of the notes are rated and publicly listed, except for those issued by Idem Luxembourg No.
The notes outstanding at 30 September 2017 can be analysed as follows: 2017 2016 Listed Not listed Total Listed Not listed Total m m m m m m Secured on first mortgage assets 6,291.1 - 6,291.1 8,095.6 - 8,095.6 Secured on other assets 42.3 142.2 184.7 141.7 136.8 278.5 6,333.4 142.2 6,475.8 8,237.3 136.8 8,374.1 The Group publishes detailed information on the performance of all of its listed note issues on the Bond Investor Reporting section of its website at www.
A more detailed description of the securitisation structure under which these notes are issued is given in note 10.
On 20 October 2015, a Group company, Idem Luxembourg No.
8 entered into an agreement under which sterling floating rate notes have been issued to Citibank NA, from time to time, on a limited recourse basis.
These notes bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.50%.
During the year 69.8m of new notes were issued under this facility.
No additional group funding was required to support these drawings.
The new funds were applied to finance portfolios of loan assets purchased from third parties.
PAGE 196 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Notes in issue at 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2016, net of any held by the Group, were: Principal Average Issuer Maturity date Call date outstanding interest margin 2017 2016 2017 2016 Sterling notes m m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
6 PLC 01 12 35 01 03 08 8.7 9.4 0.56 0.56 PAGE 197 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Principal Average Issuer Maturity date Call date outstanding interest margin 2017 2016 2017 2016 Euro notes m m % % Paragon Mortgages No.
3 PLC 15 04 36 15 04 09 - 61.6 - 0.84 Although the maturity date of these notes may be earlier than the potential final redemption date of the underlying loans, repayment cannot be enforced except to the extent that cash can be realised from those assets at that time.
During the period certain trigger events, specified in the terms and condition of the notes, occurred which meant that all cash flows relating to the class a1 dollar notes issued by Paragon Mortgages No.
11 PLC and Paragon Mortgages No.
14 PLC would in future be payable in sterling, as though they had been issued at the equivalent sterling amount as described in note 10.
The swap arrangements in the company mean that this change has no impact on the Groups exposure, but the loans are reported as sterling notes in the table above, whereas in 2016 they had been reported as US dollar notes.
The details of the assets backing these securities are given in notes 33 and 34.
PAGE 198 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 46.
BANK BORROWINGS New first mortgage loans may be financed by a secured bank loan, referred to as a warehouse facility.
These facilities are drawn on the completion of a mortgage and repayment of the facilities is restricted to the principal cash received in respect of the funded mortgage.
Loans originated in warehouse facilities are refinanced in the mortgage backed securitisation market when conditions are appropriate or through internal sales to access retail funding.
More information on this process is given in note 10 and details of assets held within the warehouse facilities are given in note 33.
Details of the Groups bank borrowings are set out below.
2017 2016 Principal Maximum Carrying Principal Maximum Carrying value available value value available value facility facility m m m m m m i Paragon Second Funding 1,005.7 1,005.7 1,005.7 1,086.3 1,086.3 1,086.3 ii Paragon Fourth Funding - - - 143.0 300.0 143.0 iii Paragon Fifth Funding 158.0 350.0 157.3 223.0 350.0 221.3 iv Paragon Seventh Funding 143.0 200.0 143.0 123.0 200.0 122.4 1,306.7 1,555.7 1,306.0 1,575.3 1,936.3 1,573.0 i The Paragon Second Funding warehouse was available for further drawings until 29 February 2008 at which point it converted automatically to a term loan and no further drawings were allowed.
This loan is a sterling facility provided to Paragon Second Funding Limited by a consortium of banks and is secured on all the assets of Paragon Second Funding Limited, Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited and Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited.
Its final repayment date is 28 February 2050 but it is likely that substantial repayments will be made within the next five years.
Interest on this loan is payable monthly in sterling at 0.675% above LIBOR 2016: 0.675% above LIBOR.
ii On 27 September 2010 the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fourth Funding Limited by Macquarie Bank PLC to provide funding for new lending, which was increased to 250.0m in 2012 and to 300.0m on 8 May 2015.
This facility was secured on all the assets of Paragon Fourth Funding Limited, it was available for drawing for a period of two years and had a term of four years.
Interest on this loan was payable monthly in sterling at 2.875% above LIBOR until the facility was renewed, on substantially the same terms, with a reduced margin of 1.750% above three month LIBOR, with effect from 12 December 2014 for a further two year period.
It was not renewed on the expiry of this period and the outstanding principal amount was repaid in the year.
iii On 26 September 2012, the Group entered into a 200.0m committed sterling facility provided to Paragon Fifth Funding Limited by the wholesale division of Lloyds Bank, which was renewed in January 2014.
On 15 May 2015 the facility was increased to 350.0m, and certain other changes were made to its terms.
The facility was renewed in 2016, but without changes to its terms.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Fifth Funding Limited and is structured with a three year term to permit drawings and re-drawings until June 2018.
Interest on this loan was payable monthly in sterling at 2.75% above three month LIBOR until January 2014, when the margin was reduced to 1.75%.
As part of the May 2015 amendment to the facility this margin will increase to 2.15% for advances on the facility between 300.0m and 350.0m.
The facility had a renewal process that allows the Group to agree a new commitment period prior to the expiry of the existing commitment period.
iv On 26 September 2015, a Group company, Paragon Seventh Funding Limited, entered into an additional 200.0m committed sterling facility with Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited.
This facility is secured on all the assets of Paragon Seventh Funding Limited and is available for drawings and redrawings until 8 October 2017.
This facility bears interest at a rate of three month LIBOR plus 1.30%.
The facility was not renewed at the end of the commitment period and was repaid after the year end.
The weighted average margin above LIBOR on bank borrowings at 30 September 2017 was 0.873% 2016: 0.974%.
PAGE 199 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 47.
RETAIL BONDS On 11 February 2013 the Company inaugurated a 1,000.0m Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which it may issue retail bonds, or other notes, within a twelve month period.
The prospectus has been updated from time to time, most recently renewing the programme for a further twelve month period on 15 July 2016, but may be further extended in future.
The terms of issue for each tranche of notes are separately determined.
These bonds are listed on the London Stock Exchange and have a fixed term, but are callable at the option of the Company.
A summary of the retail bonds outstanding under this programme, shown with their principal values, is set out below.
Maturity date Interest terms Issue price Currency 2017 2016 m m 5 December 2020 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 60.0 60.0 30 January 2022 6.125% p. a. fixed par GBP 125.0 125.0 28 August 2024 6.000% p. a. fixed par GBP 112.5 112.5 297.5 297.5 The notes are unsubordinated unsecured liabilities of the Company and the amount included in the accounts of the Group and the Company in respect of these bonds is 295.7m 2016: 295.3m.
CORPORATE BONDS On 9 September 2016 the Company issued 150.0m of 7.25% Fixed Rate Reset Callable Subordinated Tier 2 Notes at par to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bear interest at a fixed rate of 7.25% per annum until 9 September 2021, after which interest will be payable at a fixed rate which is 6.731% over the sterling 5-year mid-market swap rate at that time.
These bonds are unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
At issue the Notes were rated BB by Fitch and this rating was affirmed in the year.
Cash received on the issue of these bonds was 149.0m net of issue costs note 61.
On 20 April 2005 the Company issued 120.0m of 7% Callable Subordinated Notes at an issue price of 99.347% to provide long term capital for the Group.
These bonds bore interest at a fixed rate of 7% per annum until 20 April 2012, after which interest was payable at a fixed rate of 3.729% per annum.
The bonds were repaid on 20 April 2017.
They were unsecured and subordinated to any other creditors of the Company.
A summary of the Companys corporate bonds is set out below: Principal outstanding Carrying value Maturity date Current Interest terms Currency 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m 20 April 2017 3.729% p. a. fixed GBP - 110.0 - 110.0 9 September 2026 7.250% p. a. fixed GBP 150.0 150.0 149.1 149.0 150.0 260.0 149.1 259.0 PAGE 200 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 49.
CENTRAL BANK FACILITIES During the year, the Group has utilised facilities provided by the Bank of England including through its Sterling Monetary Framework.
These facilities enable either funding or off-balance sheet liquidity to be provided to Paragon Bank on the security of designated pools of the Banks first mortgage assets, with the amount available based on the value of the security given, subject to a haircut.
Drawings under the FLS are used to provide off balance sheet liquidity and form part of the Banks HQLA.
Fees are charged under the FLS at 0.25% of the market value of the liquidity drawn and are repayable in June 2020.
Drawings under the Indexed Long Term Repo Scheme ILTR have a maturity of six months and a rate of interest set in an auction process.
While the Group has accessed this funding in the year, no drawings remained outstanding at the year end.
Drawings under the Term Funding Scheme TFS have a maturity of four years and bear interest at bank base rate.
The average remaining maturity of the Groups drawings is 45 months.
As these drawings are provided at rates below those available commercially, by a government agency, they are accounted for under IAS 20.
The amounts drawn under these facilities are set out below.
2017 2016 m m TFS 700.0 - ILTR - - On balance sheet funding 700.0 - FLS 109.0 108.8 Total central bank facilities 809.0 108.8 Further first mortgage assets of the Bank have been pre-positioned with the Bank of England for future use in such schemes.
The assets pledged in support of these drawings are set out in note 33.
The balances arising from central bank facilities carried in the Group accounts are shown below.
2017 2016 m m TFS at IAS 20 carrying value 679.9 - Deferred government assistance 20.1 - 700.0 - PAGE 201 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 50.
SUNDRY LIABILITIES a The Group 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current liabilities Accrued interest 23.6 26.1 23.9 Deferred income 1.1 1.3 0.1 Deferred consideration - 1.9 - Trade creditors 3.5 3.8 - Conduct note 51 0.5 1.9 - Other accruals 21.0 19.6 17.7 Other taxation and social security 1.4 1.7 1.3 51.1 56.3 43.0 Non-current liabilities Accrued interest 7.2 6.5 - Deferred income 2.1 1.7 0.1 Contingent liabilities 14.0 13.7 - Other accruals 0.2 0.5 - 23.5 22.4 0.1 Total sundry liabilities 74.6 78.7 43.1 Accrued interest, contingent liabilities and other accruals fall within the definition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39.
The contingent liability represents consideration payable in respect of corporate acquisitions which is dependent on the performance of the acquired business.
Movements in the contingent liability are set out below.
2017 2016 m m At 1 October 2016 13.7 - Acquisitions - 13.7 Revaluation of liability - - Unwind of discounting note 17 0.3 - At 30 September 2017 14.0 13.7 b The Company 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current liabilities Amounts owed to Group companies 36.5 168.5 244.7 Accrued interest 2.9 4.7 4.0 39.4 173.2 248.7 Accrued interest and other accruals fall within the definition of other financial liabilities set out in IAS 32 and IAS 39.
PAGE 202 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 51.
CONDUCT Over recent years, in common with other financial services firms, the Group has followed guidance issued by the FCA in respect of redress to customers in respect of the misselling of payment protection insurance PPI, though the sums involved have not been material.
In November 2014, the UK Supreme Court handed down its decision in Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited Plevin, which addressed potential liability in respect of PPI claims under Section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, where commission charged to the customer was particularly high.
On 31 March 2017 the FCA introduced rules addressing the handling of PPI cases in the light of the Plevin decision which included a deadline beyond which no further new PPI claims would be required to be considered.
A balance of 0.5m 2016: 1.9m is recognised in sundry liabilities note 50 in respect of such claims and other Section 140 related issues.
The Group has reviewed its current exposure to such matters in the light of the Courts judgement in Plevin and the FCA rules and its current expectation is that it will suffer no material additional costs from such claims.
However, this assessment is based on our current interpretation of both the Plevin judgement and the rules, which may develop as both the judgement and the rules are implemented.
Therefore, it is possible that the maximum possible liability may be greater.
CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES Current tax in the Group and the Company represents UK corporation tax owed.
DEFERRED TAX a The Group The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: Note 2017 2016 2015 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2016 2.0 11.3 10.1 Acquisitions 13 - 3.5 - Income statement credit charge 27 2.8 0.4 1.8 Charge credit to equity 5.6 5.4 0.6 Net liability at 30 September 2017 4.8 2.0 11.3 The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 4.0 4.2 0.4 Retirement benefit obligations 5.7 11.1 4.3 Impairment and other provisions 14.9 16.4 16.6 Tax losses 0.2 0.2 0.3 Other timing differences 0.2 1.1 0.3 Net deferred tax liability 4.8 2.0 11.3 As stated in note 27 legislation has been introduced to reduce the standard rate of UK corporation tax to 17.0% from 1 April 2020.
The temporary differences have been provided at the rate prevailing when the Group anticipates the temporary difference to reverse.
In the event that the temporary differences actually reverse in different periods a credit or charge will arise in a future period to reflect the difference.
The timing of reversal of temporary differences will be affected by both matters within the Groups control eg the timing and nature of the refinancing of certain portfolios and matters outside the Groups control eg the level of redemptions of finance leases.
If temporary differences reverse within Paragon Bank PLC in a period in which it is subject to the banking surcharge, then the impact of the reversal will be at an effective tax rate that includes the surcharge to some extent.
The deferred tax numbers above do not include any material temporary differences in Paragon Bank PLC.
In addition, the Group has tax losses of 1.7m 2016: 1.7m in entities whose current taxable profits are insufficient to support the recognition of a deferred tax asset.
PAGE 203 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company The movements in the net deferred tax liability are as follows: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Net liability at 1 October 2016 1.9 1.9 1.8 Income statement charge 0.1 - 0.1 Net liability at 30 September 2017 1.8 1.9 1.9 The net deferred tax liability for which provision has been made is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Other timing differences 1.8 1.9 1.9 Net deferred tax liability 1.8 1.9 1.9 54.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS a Defined benefit plan - description The Group operates a funded defined benefit pension scheme in the UK the Plan.
The Plan assets are held in a separate fund, administered by a corporate trustee, to meet long-term pension liabilities to past and present employees.
The Trustee of the Plan is required by law to act in the best interests of the Plans beneficiaries and is responsible for the investment policy adopted in respect of the Plans assets.
The appointment of directors to the Trustee is determined by the Plans trust documentation.
The Group has a policy that one third of all directors of the Trustee should be nominated by active and pensioner members of the Plan.
Employees who are members of the Plan are entitled to receive a pension of 1 60 of their final basic annual salary for every year of eligible service to a maximum of 2 3.
Dependants of members of the Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The principal actuarial risks to which the Plan is exposed are: Investment risk The risk that income is generated on the Plans investments at a rate lower than the rate at which the defined benefit liability is calculated, which would cause an increased deficit in the Plan.
The Trustee keeps the allocation of the Plans investments under review to manage this risk on a long term basis Interest risk A decrease in bond yields will reduce the discount rate used in valuing the deficit and hence increase the Plan liability Inflation risk A rise in inflation will increase the benefits payable to Plan members, which would increase the Plan liability Longevity risk The value of the Plan deficit is calculated by reference to the best estimate of the mortality rate among Plan members both during and after employment.
An increase in the life expectancy of the members would increase the deficit in the Plan Salary risk The valuation of the Plan assumes a level of future salary increases based on a premium over the expected rate of inflation.
Should the salaries of Plan members increase at a higher rate then the deficit will be higher The risks relating to death in service payments are insured with an external insurance company.
As a result of the Plan having been closed to new entrants since February 2002, the service cost as a percentage of pensionable salaries is expected to increase as the average age of active members rises over time.
However the membership is expected to reduce so that the service cost in monetary terms will gradually reduce.
The most recent full actuarial valuation of the Plans liabilities, obtained by the Trustee, was carried out at 31 March 2016, by Aon Hewitt, the Plans independent actuary.
This showed that the value of the Plans liabilities on a buy-out basis in accordance with Section 224 of the Pensions Act 2004 was 214.0m, with a shortfall against the assets of 118.4m.
Following the 2016 actuarial valuation, the Trustee put in place a revised recovery plan.
The Trustees recovery plan aims to meet the statutory funding objective within six years and ten months from the date of valuation, that is by 31 January 2023.
PAGE 204 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b Defined benefit plan financial impact For accounting purposes the valuation at 31 March 2016 was updated to 30 September 2017 in accordance with the requirements of IAS 19 revised by Mercer, the Groups independent consulting actuary.
The major categories of assets in the Plan at 30 September 2017, 30 September 2016 and 30 September 2015 and their fair values were: 2017 2016 2015 m m m Cash 0.9 9.7 0.4 Equity instruments 58.7 56.0 56.3 Debt instruments 28.9 29.5 25.7 Real estate 9.8 8.9 8.7 Total fair value of Plan assets 98.3 104.1 91.1 Present value of Plan liabilities 128.1 162.5 112.6 Deficit in the Plan 29.8 58.4 21.5 At 30 September 2017 the Plan assets were invested in a diversified portfolio that consisted primarily of equity and debt investments.
The majority of the equities held by the Plan are in developed markets.
All investments of the Plan are in managed funds for which unit prices are quoted publicly by the fund managers, however they are not openly traded so are considered to be Level 2 financial instruments as defined by IFRS 13.
The movement in the fair value of the Plan assets during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 October 2016 104.1 91.1 Interest on Plan assets 2.3 3.6 Cash flows Contributions by Group 3.7 3.2 Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 19.0 1.3 Administration expenses paid 0.4 0.4 Remeasurement gain Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 7.4 7.7 At 30 September 2017 98.3 104.1 The actual return on Plan assets in the year ended 30 September 2017 was 9.7m 2016: 11.3m.
Benefits paid includes amounts transferred on the settlement of the Plans commitments to certain members with large accrued benefits.
No gain or loss arose on these transfers, which will reduce the Plans exposure to future volatility.
These transfers are described further in the Directors Remuneration Report in Section B5.
The movement in the present value of the Plan liabilities during the year was as follows: 2017 2016 m m At 1 October 2016 162.5 112.6 Current service cost 2.4 1.7 Funding cost 3.6 4.4 Cash flows Contributions by Plan members 0.2 0.2 Benefits paid 19.0 1.3 Remeasurement gain loss Arising from demographic assumptions 6.7 - Arising from financial assumptions 10.7 44.9 Arising from experience adjustments 4.2 - At 30 September 2017 128.1 162.5 PAGE 205 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The liabilities of the Plan are measured by discounting the best estimate of future cash flows to be paid out by the Plan using the Projected Unit method.
This amount is reflected in the liability in the balance sheet.
The Projected Unit method is an accrued benefits valuation method in which the Plan liabilities are calculated based on service up until the valuation date allowing for future salary growth until the date of retirement, withdrawal or death, as appropriate.
The future service rate is then calculated as the contribution rate required to fund the service accruing over the next year again allowing for future salary growth.
The major weighted average assumptions used by the actuary were in nominal terms : 30 September 2017 30 September 2016 30 September 2015 In determining net pension cost for the year Discount rate 2.40% 3.90% 4.10% Rate of compensation increase 3.50% 3.55% 3.65% Rate of price inflation 3.00% 3.05% 3.15% Rate of increase of pensions 2.95% 3.00% 3.05% In determining benefit obligations Discount rate 2.70% 2.40% 3.90% Rate of compensation increase 3.60% 3.50% 3.55% Rate of price inflation 3.10% 3.00% 3.05% Rate of increase of pensions 2.90% 2.95% 3.00% Further life expectancy at age 60 Male member aged 60 29 29 29 Female member aged 60 30 31 31 Male member aged 40 30 32 32 Female member aged 40 32 34 34 The amounts charged in the consolidated income statement in respect of the Plan are: Note 2017 2016 m m 21 Current service cost 2.4 1.7 Administration expenses 0.4 0.4 Included within operating expenses 2.8 2.1 Funding cost of Plan liabilities 3.6 4.4 Interest on Plan assets 2.3 3.6 Net interest expense 17 1.3 0.8 Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit or loss 4.1 2.9 PAGE 206 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of the Plan are: 2017 2016 m m Return on Plan assets excluding amounts included in interest 7.4 7.7 Actuarial gains losses Arising from demographic assumptions 6.7 - Arising from financial assumptions 10.7 44.9 Arising from experience adjustments 4.2 - Total actuarial gain loss 29.0 37.2 Tax thereon 5.5 6.8 Net actuarial gain loss 23.5 30.4 Of the remeasurement movements reflected above: The return on plan assets represents better than expected investment performance The change in demographic assumptions reflects the adoption of new mortality assumptions, in line with those adopted by the Trustee in the triennial valuation, which predict lower life expectancy among members The change in financial assumptions reflects principally the impact of increased inflation expectations on discount rates The experience adjustments relate to the trueing up of the IAS 19 valuation to reflect changes in Plan members positions and salaries over the three year period between triennial valuations c Defined benefit plan future cash flows The sensitivity of the valuation of the defined benefit obligation to the principal assumptions disclosed above at 30 September 2017, calculating the obligation on the same basis as used in determining the IAS 19 value, is as follows: Assumption Increase in assumption Impact on scheme liabilities Discount rate 0.1% p. a.
Decrease by 2.2% Rate of inflation 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 2.2% Rate of salary growth 0.1% p. a.
Increase by 0.4% Rates of mortality 1 year of life expectancy Increase by 2.5% maintaining a 0.5% assumption for real salary growth The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of an actual future change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation as some of the assumptions will be correlated.
There has been no change in the method of preparing the analysis from that adopted in previous years.
In conjunction with the Trustee, the Group has continued to conduct asset-liability reviews of the Plan.
These studies are used to assist the Trustee and the Group to determine the optimal long-term asset allocation with regard to the structure of liabilities within the Plan.
The results of the studies are used to assist the Trustee in managing the volatility in the underlying investment performance and risk of a significant increase in the scheme deficit by providing information used to determine the investment strategy of the Plan.
There have been no changes in the processes by which the Plan manages its risks from previous periods.
The target asset allocations for the year ending 30 September 2018 are 60% growth assets primarily equities, 30% bonds and 10% real estate.
The rate of employee contributions to the Plan is 5.0% of pensionable salaries.
Before 1 April 2017 the agreed rate of employer contributions was 27.0% of gross salaries for participating employees with additional contributions of 1.5m per annum for deficit reduction and 0.4m per annum to cover administration and life cover costs, payable monthly.
After 1 April 2017, following the finalisation of the March 2016 valuation, employer contributions increased to 32.0% of gross salaries and the additional contribution for deficit reduction increased to 2.5m per annum.
The 0.4m per annum contribution in respect of costs remained in place.
The present best estimate of the contributions to be made to the Plan by the Group in the year ending 30 September 2018 is 4.4m.
PAGE 207 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The average duration of the benefit obligations in the Plan at the year end are shown in the table below: 2017 2016 Years Years Category of member Active members 24 26 Deferred pensioners 23 26 Current pensioners 16 16 All members 22 24 d Defined contribution arrangements The Group sponsors a defined contribution Worksave pension scheme, open to all employees who are not members of the Plan.
The Group successfully completed the auto-enrolment process mandated by the UK Government in November 2013, using this scheme.
The PAF business also sponsors a number of defined contribution pension plans and makes contributions to these schemes in respect of employees.
The assets of these schemes are not Group assets and are held separately from those of the Group, under the control of independent trustees.
Contributions made by the Group to these schemes in the year ended 30 September 2017, which represent the total cost charged against income, were 1.9m 2016: 1.8m note 21.
CALLED-UP SHARE CAPITAL The share capital of the Company consists of a single class of 1 ordinary shares.
Movements in the issued share capital in the year were: 2017 2016 Number Number Ordinary shares At 1 October 2016 295,852,094 309,349,316 Shares issued 637,607 218,872 Shares cancelled 15,000,000 13,716,094 At 30 September 2017 281,489,701 295,852,094 During the year the Company issued 637,607 shares 2016: 55,827 to satisfy options granted under sharesave schemes for a consideration of 1,575,925 2016: 68,070.
In the year ended 30 September 2016, the Company had also issued 163,045 shares at par to the trustees of its Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP Trust in order that they could fulfil their obligations under the Groups share based award arrangements.
On 1 June 2017 15,000,000 shares held in treasury were cancelled by the Company 2016: 13,716,094 shares.
RESERVES a The Group 2017 2016 2015 m m m Share premium account 65.5 64.6 64.6 Capital redemption reserve 28.7 13.7 - Merger reserve 70.2 70.2 70.2 Cash flow hedging reserve 2.5 2.1 1.9 Profit and loss account 784.5 725.9 767.7 811.0 736.1 760.2 PAGE 208 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company 2017 2016 2015 m m m Share premium account 65.5 64.6 64.6 Capital redemption reserve 28.7 13.7 - Merger reserve 23.7 23.7 23.7 Profit and loss account 384.0 415.5 456.6 454.5 470.1 497.5 The merger reserve arose, due to the provisions of UK company law at the time, on a group restructuring on 12 May 1989 when the Company became the parent entity of the Group.
The cash flows to which amounts included in the cash flow hedging reserve relate result from the cross currency basis swaps described in note 12.
The contractual life of these swaps, over which cash flows might take place and affect profit, extend over the next 27 years 2016: 28 years.
However the cash flows in respect of these swaps will only continue for as long as the related notes remain outstanding, which is expected to be a much shorter period.
These shares do not qualify for dividends.
The ESOP shares are held in trust for the benefit of employees exercising their options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the Paragon Performance Share Plan, Matching Share Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan.
The trustees costs are included in the operating expenses of the Group.
Options, or other share-based awards, were outstanding against all of these shares at 30 September 2017 2016: all.
The dividends on all of these shares have been waived 2016: all.
PAGE 209 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 58.
EQUITY DIVIDEND Amounts recognised as distributions to equity shareholders in the Group and the Company in the period: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Per share Per share m m Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2016 9.2p 7.4p 25.5 21.7 Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 4.7p 4.3p 12.5 12.2 13.9p 11.7p 38.0 33.9 Amounts paid and proposed in respect of the year: 2017 2016 2017 2016 Per share Per share m m Interim dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 4.7p 4.3p 12.5 12.2 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 11.0p 9.2p 28.9 25.5 15.7p 13.5p 41.4 37.7 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2017 will be paid on 19 February 2018, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, with a record date of 5 January 2018.
The dividend will be recognised in the accounts when it is paid.
PAGE 210 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 59.
NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES a The Group 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 144.8 143.2 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of operating property, plant and equipment 1.9 1.9 Profit on disposal of operating property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets 1.6 1.6 Foreign exchange movement on borrowings 468.9 699.9 Other non-cash movements on borrowings 6.4 14.3 Impairment losses on loans to customers 5.3 7.7 Charge for share based remuneration 4.2 4.4 Net increase decrease in operating assets: Operating lease assets 7.4 5.4 Loans to customers 391.9 443.0 Derivative financial instruments 459.8 706.3 Fair value of portfolio hedges 21.2 7.3 Other receivables - 2.1 Net increase decrease in operating liabilities: Retail deposits 1,741.5 1,165.2 Derivative financial instruments 8.7 9.1 Fair value of portfolio hedges 4.3 0.8 Other liabilities 1.8 4.9 Cash generated by operations 1,503.6 888.8 Income taxes paid 28.9 23.6 1,474.7 865.2 Cash flows relating to plant and equipment held for leasing under operating leases are classified as operating cash flows.
PAGE 211 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 44.6 82.9 Non-cash items included in profit and other adjustments: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 Non-cash movements on borrowings 0.5 0.4 Impairment release provision on investments in subsidiaries 8.1 1.0 Charge for share based remuneration 4.2 4.4 Net decrease in operating assets: Other receivables 45.5 56.7 Net decrease in operating liabilities: Other liabilities 133.8 75.5 Cash utilised generated by operations 46.8 70.3 Income taxes received paid 2.3 2.7 44.5 67.6 60.
NET CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Proceeds from sales of operating property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.4 - - Purchases of operating property, plant and equipment 1.7 1.5 - - Purchases of intangible assets 0.9 1.4 - - Decrease in short term investments 7.1 34.0 - - Movement in loans to subsidiary undertakings - - 401.4 206.6 Acquisitions Note 13 1.6 310.1 - - Investment in subsidiary undertakings - - 378.6 174.1 Disposal of subsidiary undertakings - - 150.0 - Net cash generated utilised by investing activities 3.2 278.6 172.8 32.5 PAGE 212 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 61.
NET CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Shares issued note 55 1.5 - 1.5 0.3 Dividends paid note 58 38.0 33.9 38.0 33.9 Issue of asset backed floating rate notes 69.8 531.0 - - Repayment of asset backed floating rate notes 1,503.0 1,137.2 - - Issue of corporate bonds - 149.0 - 149.0 Repayment of corporate bonds 110.0 - 110.0 - Movement on central bank facilities 700.0 - - - Movement on other bank facilities 268.6 145.5 - - Purchase of shares note 57 69.7 59.9 65.5 51.0 Net cash utilised generated by financing activities 1,218.0 405.5 212.0 64.4 62.
PAGE 213 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b The Company Cash flows Non-cash movements Opening Debt Other Foreign Other Closing debt issued exchange debt m m m m m m 30 September 2017 Corporate bonds 259.0 - 110.0 - 0.1 149.1 Retail bonds 295.3 - - - 0.4 295.7 Gross debt 554.3 - 110.0 - 0.5 444.8 Cash 361.3 - 83.7 - - 277.6 Net debt 193.0 - 26.3 - 0.5 167.2 30 September 2016 Corporate bonds 110.0 149.0 - - - 259.0 Retail bonds 294.9 - - - 0.4 295.3 Gross debt 404.9 149.0 - - 0.4 554.3 Cash 196.8 149.0 15.5 - - 361.3 Net debt 208.1 - 15.5 - 0.4 193.0 Other non-cash changes shown above represent EIR adjustments relating to the spreading of initial costs of the bonds.
OPERATING LEASE ARRANGEMENTS a As Lessor The Group, through its asset finance business, leases assets under operating leases.
In respect of certain of these assets, the Group also provides maintenance services to the lessee.
Assets subject to these arrangements are shown in note 40 and the income from these activities is shown in note 18.
The future minimum lease payments under these arrangements may be analysed as follows: The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 3.0 2.5 - - Between two and five years 7.5 4.7 - - After more than five years 0.3 - - - 10.8 7.2 - - PAGE 214 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts b As Lessee The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in operating expenses for the year Office buildings 2.1 2.1 - - Motor vehicles 0.3 0.3 - - Office equipment 0.2 0.2 - - 2.6 2.6 - - At 30 September 2017 the Group had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: The Group The Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Amounts falling due: Within one year 2.4 2.3 - - Between two and five years 6.8 3.4 - - After more than five years 3.8 - - - 13.0 5.7 - - Operating lease payments represent rents payable by the Group in respect of certain of its office premises and lease payments on company vehicles and equipment.
The average term of the current building leases from inception or acquisition is 6 years 2016: 5 years with rents subject to review every five years, while the average term of the vehicle leases and office equipment is 3 years 2016: 3 years.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS a The Group Mr A K Fletcher, an independent non-executive director of the Company, is a director of Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited, which acts as the corporate trustee of the Paragon Pension Plan the Plan.
Mr Fletcher was appointed a trustee of the Plan on 27 May 2010, and a director of Paragon Pension Trustees Limited on 7 November 2011.
The Plan moved to corporate trusteeship in the first quarter of 2013 at which point all individuals ceased to be trustees of the Plan on their own account.
In respect of this appointment he was paid 10,000 in the year ended 30 September 2017 by Paragon Finance PLC, the sponsoring company of the Plan 2016: 10,000.
The Plan is a related party of the Group.
Transactions with the Plan are described in note 54.
The Group had no other transactions with related parties other than the key management compensation disclosed in note 22. b The Company During the year the parent company entered into transactions with its subsidiaries, which are related parties.
Management services were provided to the Company by one of its subsidiaries and the Company granted awards under the share based payment arrangements described in note 23 to employees of subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the Companys investments in subsidiaries and the income derived from them are shown in notes 43 and 65.
Outstanding current account balances with subsidiaries are shown in notes 39 and 50.
During the year the Company incurred interest costs of 10.2m in respect of borrowings from its subsidiaries 2016: 8.9m.
PAGE 215 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 65.
DETAILS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS Subsidiary undertakings of the Group at 30 September 2017, where the share capital is held within the Group are shown below.
The holdings shown are those held within the Group.
The shareholdings of the Company in the direct subsidiaries listed below are the same as those held by the Group, except that: For the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 74% of the share capital For the shareholdings marked the Company holds only 66.7% of the share capital In these cases the remainder is held by other group companies.
The issued share capital of all subsidiaries consists of ordinary share capital, except those companies marked which have additional preference share capital held within the Group.
Company Holding Principal activity Direct subsidiaries of Paragon Banking Group PLC Paragon Car Finance Limited 100% Vehicle finance Idem Capital Holdings Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Moorgate Servicing Limited 100% Intermediate holding company Deposit taking, residential mortgages and loan and Paragon Bank PLC 100% vehicle finance SPV Securities Limited 100% Asset investment The Business Mortgage Company Limited 100% Mortgage broker Paragon Fourth Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
8 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
9 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
10 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
11 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
12 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
13 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
14 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
15 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
16 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
17 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Personal and Auto Finance No.
3 PLC 100% Loan and vehicle finance Paragon Secured Finance No.
1 PLC 100% Loan finance First Flexible No.
7 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Collateralised Mortgage Securities No.
12 PLC 100% Non-trading Colonial Finance UK Limited 100% Non-trading Earlswood Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Earlswood Finance No.
2 Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
3 Limited 100% Non-trading Finance for People No.
4 PLC 100% Non-trading Homer Funding Limited 100% Non-trading PAGE 216 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Company Holding Principal activity Direct subsidiaries of Paragon Banking Group PLC Idem Luxembourg No.
9 100% Non-trading Mortgage Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading NHL Second Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading NHL Third Funding Corporation PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Car Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Dealer Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Finance Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Lending Limited 100% Non-trading formerly Paragon Mortgages No.
31 Limited Paragon Loan Finance No.
1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Loan Finance No.
2 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
1 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
2 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
4 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
5 PLC 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
26 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
27 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
33 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
34 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
36 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
37 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Mortgages No.
38 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Pension Investments GP Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Pension Plan Trustees Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Personal Finance 1 Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Servicing Limited 100% Non-trading formerly Paragon Mortgages No.
32 Limited Paragon Third Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Vehicle Contracts Limited 100% Non-trading PGC Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Plymouth Funding Limited 100% Non-trading Redbrick Real Estate Services Limited 100% Non-trading Sancopia Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Sancopia Limited 100% Non-trading TBMC 2 Limited 100% Non-trading Tegic Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Tegic Limited 100% Non-trading Townend Farm Easington Management Company Limited 100% Non-trading formerly formerly Paragon Mortgages No.
35 Limited Universal Credit Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Freeholds Limited 100% Non-trading Yorkshire Leaseholds Limited 100% Non-trading PAGE 217 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Company Holding Principal activity Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Paragon Bank PLC Paragon Finance PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Mortgage Trust Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited 100% Residential mortgages Paragon Asset Finance Limited 100% Holding company and portfolio administration formerly Paragon Bank Asset Finance Limited City Business Finance Limited 100% Asset finance Paragon Business Finance PLC 100% Asset finance formerly Paragon Bank Business Finance PLC Paragon Commercial Finance Limited 80% Asset finance formerly Dash Commercial Finance Limited Paragon Technology Finance Limited 100% Asset finance formerly Paragon Bank Technology Finance Limited Premier Asset Finance Limited 100% Asset finance broker Specialist Fleet Services Limited 100% Asset finance and contract hire Capital Professions Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Collett Transport Services Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading Fineline Media Finance Limited 100% Non-trading Homer Management Limited 100% Non-trading Lease Portfolio Management Limited 100% Non-trading PBAF Acquisitions Limited 100% Non-trading formerly Print Finance Limited PBAF No.
1 Limited 100% Non-trading State Securities Holdings Limited 100% Non-trading State Security Limited 100% Non-trading Company Holding Principal activity Direct and indirect subsidiaries of Idem Capital Holdings Limited Moorgate Loan Servicing Limited 100% Asset administration Idem No.
3 Limited 100% Asset investment Idem Capital Securities Limited 100% Asset investment Idem First Finance Limited 100% Asset investment Paragon Personal Finance Limited 100% Consumer loan finance Idem No.
6 Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Asset Management Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Acquisitions Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Capital Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Consumer Loans Limited 100% Non-trading Idem Luxembourg No.
10 100% Non-trading Sancopia Portfolios Limited 100% Non-trading PAGE 218 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts Company Holding Principal activity Other indirect subsidiary undertakings First Flexible No.
6 PLC 100% Residential mortgages Mortgage Trust Services PLC 100% Residential mortgages and asset administration Paragon Second Funding Limited 100% Residential mortgages and loan and vehicle finance Redbrick Survey and Valuation Limited 100% Surveyors and property consulting Buy to Let Direct Limited 100% Non-trading formerly Landlordcentre.
co. uk Limited LOM Recoveries Limited 100% Non-trading Moorgate Asset Administration Limited 100% Non-trading Paragon Options PLC 100% Non-trading TBMC Group Limited 100% Non-trading The Business Mortgage Company Services Limited 100% Non-trading Tidford Cottages Management Limited 100% Non-trading The financial year end of all of the Groups subsidiary companies is 30 September.
They are all registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK except: Those entities marked which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg Paragon Pension Investments GP Limited, which is registered in Scotland and operates in the UK 20% of the equity of Paragon Commercial Finance Limited is subject to a call option agreed as part of the acquisition of the company by PAF.
No material minority interest attaches to this holding.
As part of the Groups financing arrangements certain mortgage and consumer loans originated by Paragon Mortgages 2010 Limited and Mortgage Trust Limited or acquired by Idem Capital Securities Limited have been sold to special purpose entity companies, which had raised non-recourse finance to fund these purchases.
The shares of these companies are ultimately beneficially owned through independent trusts and are considered to be controlled by the Group, as defined by IFRS 10 and hence they are considered to be subsidiaries of the Group.
PAGE 219 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The principal companies party to these arrangements at 30 September 2017 comprise: Company Principal activity First Flexible No.
4 PLC Residential mortgages First Flexible No.
5 PLC Residential mortgages Idem Capital Securities No.
1 Asset investment Idem Luxembourg No.
8 Asset investment Paragon Fifth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Sixth Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Seventh Funding Limited Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
18 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
18 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
19 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
19 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
20 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
20 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
21 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
21 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
22 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
22 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
23 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
23 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
24 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
24 PLC Residential mortgages Paragon Mortgages No.
25 Holdings Limited Holding company Paragon Mortgages No.
25 PLC Residential mortgages Arianty Holdings Limited Holding company Arianty No.
1 Limited Non-trading Arianty Services Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
1 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
2 Limited Non-trading First Flexible No.
3 Limited Non-trading All of these companies are registered and operate in the UK except Idem Capital Securities No.
8 which are registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
8 LLP are limited liability partnerships, established under English law, in which all of the members are Group companies.
They are therefore considered to be subsidiary entities.
Both are registered in England and Wales and operate in the UK.
3 Limited, a company limited by guarantee, is registered in England and Wales and operates in the UK.
It is included in the consolidation as it is ultimately controlled by the parent company.
The Group accounts include the results of two Jersey companies, which are ultimately beneficially owned by a charitable trust, but are considered to be controlled by the Group, using the definition contained in IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements.
These companies, Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited and Idem Jersey No.
2 Limited are registered in the Bailiwick of Jersey and operate in the UK.
The share capital of Idem Jersey No.
1 Limited is divided into A shares and B shares.
All of the 600 B shares are held by Group companies 100 by the parent company and 500 by other Group companies.
PAGE 220 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts The registered office of each of the entities listed in this note is the same as that of the Company note 1, except that: The registered office of The Business Mortgage Company Limited, TBMC 2 Limited, Buy to Let Direct Limited, TBMC Group Limited, and The Business Mortgage Company Services Limited is Greenmeadow House, 2 Village Way, Greenmeadow Springs Business Park, Cardiff, CF15 7NE The registered office of State Security Limited is Burlington House, Botleigh Grange Office Campus, Grange Drive, Hedge End, Southampton, SO30 2AF The registered office of the Scottish company is Citypoint, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 5HD The office of the Luxembourg entities is 8-10, Avenue fide la Gare, L-1610 Luxembourg The registered office of the Jersey companies is 13 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE4 5UT All of the entities listed in this note are included in the consolidated accounts of the Group.
COUNTRY-BY-COUNTRY REPORTING The Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting Regulations 2013 came into effect on 1 January 2014 and place certain reporting obligations on financial institutions that are within the scope of CRD IV.
The objective of the country-by-country reporting requirements is to provide increased transparency regarding the source of the financial institutions income and the locations of its operations.
Paragon Banking Group PLC is a UK registered entity.
Details of its subsidiaries are given in note 65 and the activities of the Group are described in Section A2.1.
The activities of the Group, described as required by the Regulations for the year ended 30 September 2017 were: United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2017 Total operating income 252.8 Profit before tax 144.8 Corporation tax paid 28.9 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 1,229 United Kingdom m Year ended 30 September 2016 Total operating income 244.0 Profit before tax 143.2 Corporation tax paid 23.6 Public subsidies received - Average number of full time equivalent employees 1,175 The Groups participation in Bank of England funding schemes is set out in note 49.
PAGE 221 The Accounts PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts E. APPENDICES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT Additional financial information supporting amounts shown in the Strategic Report Section A, but not forming part of the Statutory Accounts A.
INCOME STATEMENT RATIOS The average net interest margin is calculated as follows: Note 2017 2016 m m Opening loans to customers 32 10,737.5 10,062.4 32 Closing loans to customers 11,124.1 10,737.5 Average loans to customers 10,930.8 10,400.0 Net interest 232.6 223.2 Net interest margin 2.13% 2.15% Impairment provision 25 5.3 7.7 Impairment as a percentage of average loan balance 0.05% 0.07% B.
COST:INCOME RATIO Cost:income ratio is derived as follows: Note 2017 2016 m m Cost operating expenses 20 102.3 92.5 Total operating income 252.8 244.0 Cost Income 40.5% 37.9% PAGE 224 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts C. UNDERLYING PROFIT The Group reports underlying profit excluding fair value accounting adjustments arising from its hedging arrangements.
This measure has been chosen as it is one widely used by investors and analysts following the Groups shares, and because management feel it better represents the underlying economic performance of the Groups business.
2017 2016 m m Profit on ordinary activities before tax 144.8 143.2 Add back: Fair value adjustments 0.4 0.6 Underlying profit 145.2 143.8 D. NET ASSET VALUE Note 2017 2016 Total equity m 1,009.4 969.5 Outstanding issued shares m 55 281.5 295.8 Treasury shares m 57 15.7 15.3 57 Shares held by ESOP schemes m 3.2 3.6 262.6 276.9 Net asset value per 1 ordinary share 3.84 3.50 Tangible equity m 7 905.0 864.1 Tangible net asset value per 1 ordinary share 3.45 3.12 PAGE 225 Appendices to the Annual Report PARAGON BANKING GROUP PLC 2017 Annual Report and Accounts F. USEFUL INFORMATION Information which may be helpful to shareholders and other users of the Annual Report and Accounts F1 Glossary PAGE 228 A summary of abbreviations used in the Annual Report and Accounts F2 Shareholder Information PAGE 230 Information about dividends, meetings and managing shareholdings F3 Other Public Reporting PAGE 232 Current and future public reporting information for the Group F4 Contacts PAGE 234 Names and addresses of the Groups advisers
