246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp76-imp INF 15 12 2017 13:33 Page 90 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 90 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements The annual report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 September 2017 will be presented to the AGM.
These Financial Statements accompanied this Notice of Meeting and shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to ask questions.
Resolutions 2 to 5 Re-election of Directors Resolutions 2 to 5 deal with the re-election of each Director.
Biographies of each of the Directors can be found on pages 26 and 27.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, that the Directors standing for election and re-election continue to perform effectively.
Further details are set out on page 37.
Resolutions 6 and 7 Election of Directors Resolutions 6 and 7 deal with the election of Kate Cornish-Bowden and Lorna Tilbian, their biographies can be found on pages 26 and 27.
Resolution 8 Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in full on pages 43 to 45.
Resolution 9 Re-appointment of auditors Resolution 10 relates to the re-appointment of  LLP as the Companys independent auditors to hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and also authorises the Audit Committee to set their remuneration.
Following the implementation of the Competition and Markets Authority order on Statutory Audit Services only the Audit Committee may negotiate and agree the terms of the auditors service agreement.
Resolutions 10 to 12 Ordinary Resolution 10 will renew the authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,058,042 equivalent to 16,232,171 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital on 14 December 2017, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
Special Resolution 12 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to 10% of the Companys existing share capital on 14 December 2017 reduced by any treasury shares sold by the Company pursuant to Resolution 12, as described below, as if Section 551 of the Act does not apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution 10.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
Under Section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 s724 the Company is permitted to buy back and hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather than cancelling them.
It is a requirement of s724 that such sale be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis pursuant to Resolution 11, Special Resolution 12, if passed, will give the Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
Any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a narrower discount to the ex-income net asset value per share than that at which they had been bought into treasury, and in any event at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing ex-income net asset value per share, and this is reflected in the text of Resolution 12.
It is also the intention of the Board that sales from treasury would only take place when the Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision of liquidity to the market.
The number of treasury shares which may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the Companys existing share capital on 14 December 2017 reduced by any equity securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata basis pursuant to Resolution 11, as described above.
246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp76-imp INF 15 12 2017 13:33 Page 91 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 91 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Resolution 13 The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount to net asset value per share, should result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Special Resolution 13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue on 14 December 2017, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, amounting to 24,332,024 shares.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
Resolution 14 Special Resolution 14 seeks shareholder approval for the Company to hold General Meetings other than the Annual General Meeting at 14 clear days notice.
The Company will only use this shorter notice period where it is merited by the purpose of the meeting and will endeaver to give at least 14 working days notice if possible, in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance code.
Recommendation The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the above items are in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to the shareholders that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to be proposed at the Forthcoming Annual General Meeting as Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings totalling 416,237 Shares.
FURTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
