246557 Finsbury Growth & Inc pp76-imp INF 15 12 2017 13:33 Page 76 Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC 76 Annual Report for the year ended 30 September 2017 AIFMD Disclosures Unaudited The Companys AIFM, Frostrow Capital LLP, and the Company are required to make certain disclosures available to investors in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD.
Those disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment are included within an Investor Disclosure Document which can be found on the Companys website www.
com The periodic disclosures to investors are made below: Information on the investment strategy, sector investment focus and principal stock exposures are included in the Strategic Report.
None of the Companys assets are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
There are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company or any material changes to the liquidity management systems and procedures employed by Frostrow.
The Strategic Report starting on page 23 and note 17 to the Financial Statements starting on page 59, set out the risk profile and risk management systems in place.
There have been no changes to the risk management systems in place during the year under review and no breaches of the risk limits set, with no breach expected.
The maximum level of leverage has not changed in the year under review see Glossary of terms and Alternative Performance Measures on page 79 for further details.
The total amount of leverage employed by the Company as at 30 September 2017 is shown below.
Gross Commitment Method Method Maximum limit 125.0% 125.0% Actual 101.9% 101.9% Remuneration of AIFM Staff Following completion of an assessment of the application of the proportionality principle to the FCAs AIFM Remuneration Code, the AIFM has disapplied the pay-out process rules with respect to it and any of its delegates.
This is because the AIFM considers that it carries out non-complex activities and is operating on a small scale.
