102 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 102 Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit committee Changes in finance systems and processes, We performed the following procedures in respect of Based on the procedures including the capitalisation of system the implementation: performed, we were implementation costs New in 2017 satisfied that financial We inspected evidence, including reports to the groups We focused on this area as Primark, the groups balances are appropriately Audit committee, in respect of project governance, largest business, implemented a new general stated following the particularly in relation to key gateway decisions.
ledger system across its business.
During any new finance system We understood the data cleansing process undertaken period of significant system change, there is implementation.
by management prior to migration and tested the an increased risk to the internal financial control In performing these data migration, including associated reconciliations.
In addition, certain costs will be procedures, we identified We discussed and assessed the appropriateness eligible for capitalisation as an intangible asset.
a number of control of IT access and segregation of duties for all users.
The audit team focused its procedures on the observations which We performed walkthroughs of new processes and following risks: are being addressed understood the key IT dependent manual and IT by management.
Data migration and integrity of financial reporting: application controls in the Oracle Financials system.
We are also satisfied Whilst our audit strategy did not seek to rely on Inappropriate capitalisation of costs as an that the costs capitalised controls over the processes impacted by the change intangible asset: in respect of the system in finance system, in performing our substantive audit Inconsistent capitalisation of costs from implementation procedures we evaluated the robustness of Primarks year to year: and are appropriate.
financial statement close process and tailored the extent of our procedures accordingly.
Potential impairment of the total intangible asset capitalised in respect of the system We performed the following procedures in respect implementation.
of the capitalisation of system implementation costs: Refer to the Audit committee report page 71 : We evaluated whether the costs incurred were accounting policies page 114 : and note 8 either expensed or capitalised in line with the to the consolidated financial statements groups accounting policy and IAS 38.
We also pages 124 to125 evaluated whether the policy has been applied consistently with prior years.
We tested a sample of costs, both expensed and capitalised, to third party evidence.
We assessed the useful lives of capitalised costs in the context of the groups accounting policy and industry benchmarks.
We also checked that the timing of commencement of amortisation was appropriate.
We evaluated managements assessment as to whether there were any indicators of impairment for the costs capitalised.
The audit procedures to address this risk were performed principally by the full scope component team in Ireland with oversight from the group audit team.
The key audit matters as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported in 2016, with the exception of the inclusion of Changes in finance systems and processes, including the capitalisation of system implementation costs to reflect the Primark finance system implementation in the year.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 103 102 103 Key observations An overview of the scope of our audit communicated to the Tailoring the scope Involvement with component teams Risk Our response to the risk Audit committee Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of In establishing our overall approach Normalised profit before tax Changes in finance systems and processes, We performed the following procedures in respect of Based on the procedures materiality and our allocation of performance materiality to the group audit, we determined including the capitalisation of system the implementation: performed, we were determine our audit scope for each entity within the the type of work that needed to implementation costs New in 2017 satisfied that financial We inspected evidence, including reports to the groups group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an be undertaken at each of the We focused on this area as Primark, the groups balances are appropriately Audit committee, in respect of project governance, components, by us as the group audit opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We largest business, implemented a new general stated following the particularly in relation to key gateway decisions.
take into account the level of revenue and normalised team, or by component auditors from ledger system across its business.
During any new finance system profit before taxation, risk profile including country risk, other EY global network firms or by We understood the data cleansing process undertaken period of significant system change, there is implementation.
controls and internal audit findings and the extent of other auditors operating under our by management prior to migration and tested the an increased risk to the internal financial control In performing these instruction.
Of the 126 full scope data migration, including associated reconciliations.
changes in management, systems and processes and environment.
In addition, certain costs will be procedures, we identified the business environment and other known factors components, audit procedures were We discussed and assessed the appropriateness eligible for capitalisation as an intangible asset.
a number of control when assessing the level of work to be performed performed on 77 of these directly of IT access and segregation of duties for all users.
The audit team focused its procedures on the observations which at each entity.
by the group audit team and 49 by We performed walkthroughs of new processes and following risks: are being addressed component audit teams.
For the 58 understood the key IT dependent manual and IT In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the Full scope components 8 2% by management.
specific scope components, where Data migration and integrity of financial reporting: application controls in the Oracle Financials system.
Specic scope components 10% group financial statements and to achieve adequate the work was performed by Other procedures 8% We are also satisfied quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the Whilst our audit strategy did not seek to rely on Inappropriate capitalisation of costs as an component auditors, we determined that the costs capitalised financial statements, of the 605 reporting components controls over the processes impacted by the change intangible asset: the appropriate level of involvement in respect of the system in finance system, in performing our substantive audit of the group, we selected 184 components, which Revenue to enable us to determine that Inconsistent capitalisation of costs from implementation represent the principal business units within the group.
procedures we evaluated the robustness of Primarks sufficient audit evidence had been year to year: and are appropriate.
financial statement close process and tailored the Of the 184 components selected, we performed an obtained as a basis for our opinion extent of our procedures accordingly.
Potential impairment of the total intangible audit of the complete financial information of 126 on the group as a whole.
asset capitalised in respect of the system We performed the following procedures in respect components full scope components which were During the period the Senior Statutory implementation.
of the capitalisation of system implementation costs: selected based on their size or risk characteristics.
Auditor or other members of the For the remaining 58 components specific scope Refer to the Audit committee report page 71 : We evaluated whether the costs incurred were group audit team visited 31 full and components, we performed audit procedures on accounting policies page 114 : and note 8 either expensed or capitalised in line with the specific scope components in the UK, specific accounts within that component that we to the consolidated financial statements groups accounting policy and IAS 38.
We also Ireland, Australia, the US, China, considered had the potential for the greatest impact pages 124 to125 evaluated whether the policy has been applied Germany, India, Mexico, South Africa on the significant accounts in the financial statements consistently with prior years.
either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
Full scope components 80% These visits involved meeting with We tested a sample of costs, both expensed and Specic scope components 9% our component team to discuss and capitalised, to third party evidence.
The reporting components where we performed full Other procedures 11 % direct its audit approach, reviewing We assessed the useful lives of capitalised costs in and specific scope procedures accounted for 92% of and understanding the significant the context of the groups accounting policy and industry the groups normalised profit before taxation 2016: audit findings in response to the risk Total assets benchmarks.
We also checked that the timing of 93%, 89% of the groups revenue 2016: 91% and areas including asset impairment, commencement of amortisation was appropriate.
86% of the groups total assets 2016: 92%.
For the tax provisions and revenue current period, the full scope components contributed We evaluated managements assessment as to recognition, holding meetings with whether there were any indicators of impairment 82% of the groups normalised profit before taxation local management, undertaking for the costs capitalised.
2016: 87%, 80% of the groups revenue 2016: 81% factory tours and obtaining updates and 75% of the groups total assets 2016: 76%.
The The audit procedures to address this risk were performed on local regulatory matters including specific scope components contributed 11% of the principally by the full scope component team in Ireland tax, pensions and legal.
For our visits groups normalised profit before taxation 2016: 6%, with oversight from the group audit team.
to our Primark component team in 9% of the groups revenue 2016: 10% and 11% of Ireland we also discussed, directed the groups total assets 2016: 16%.
The audit scope The key audit matters as set out in the table above are consistent with those reported in 2016, with the exception of the inclusion and inspected key audit evidence of these components may not have included testing of of Changes in finance systems and processes, including the capitalisation of system implementation costs to reflect the Primark in respect of the finance system all significant accounts of the component but will have finance system implementation in the year.
The group audit contributed to the coverage of significant accounts Full scope components 75% team interacted regularly with the tested for the group.
Specic scope components 11 % component teams where appropriate Other procedures 14 % Of the remaining 421 components 2016: 411 that during various stages of the audit, together represent 7% of the groups normalised reviewed key working papers and profit before taxation 2016: 7%, none are individually were responsible for the scope greater than 1% of the groups normalised profit before and direction of the audit process.
For these components, we performed other This, together with the additional procedures, including analytical review, testing of procedures performed at group consolidation journals and intercompany eliminations level, gave us appropriate evidence and foreign currency translation recalculations to for our opinion on the group financial respond to any potential risks of material misstatement statements.
to the group financial statements.
The charts illustrate the coverage obtained from the work performed by our audit teams.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 104 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 104 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the group to be 60 million, which is 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for the 293 million of profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses normalised profit before taxation.
We believe that normalised profit before taxation provides us with the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the group, as the profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses are non-recurring and not related to the ongoing trading of the group.
In 2016, we used a materiality level of 50 million, based on 5% of profit before taxation.
During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the actual normalised profit before taxation was 6% higher than the groups initial estimates.
However, due to the status of our procedures we did not change our materiality assessment to reflect this.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% of our planning materiality, namely 45 million.
This is an increase from 50% 25 million in 2016 to reflect the fact that 2016 was our first period as auditor of Associated British Foods plc.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
In the current period, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1 million to 20 million 2016: 1 million to 11 million.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1 million 2016: 1 million, which is set at 2% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Other information The other information comprises the information included in the annual report and accounts set out on pages 1 to 98, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.
In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items meet the following conditions: Fair, balanced and understandable, set out on page 98 the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 105 104 105 Our application of materiality Audit Committee reporting, set out on pages 70 to 74 the section describing the work of the Audit Committee does not We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee: or on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, set out on page 62 the parts of the Materiality The magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly nature and extent of our audit procedures.
disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We determined materiality for the group to be 60 million, which is 5% of profit before taxation, adjusted for the 293 million of Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 profits less losses on sale and closure of businesses normalised profit before taxation.
We believe that normalised profit before In our opinion, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the taxation provides us with the most relevant performance measure to the stakeholders of the group, as the profits less losses on Companies Act 2006. sale and closure of businesses are non-recurring and not related to the ongoing trading of the group.
In 2016, we used a materiality In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: level of 50 million, based on 5% of profit before taxation.
the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements During the course of our audit, we reassessed initial materiality and the actual normalised profit before taxation was 6% higher are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and than the groups initial estimates.
the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
It is set at an amount to reduce Matters on which we are required to report by exception to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors report.
This is an increase from 50% We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report 25 million in 2016 to reflect the fact that 2016 was our first period as auditor of Associated British Foods plc.
to you if, in our opinion: Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based received from branches not visited by us: or on the relative scale and risk of the component to the group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement component.
In the current period, the range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1 million to 20 million with the accounting records and returns: or 2016: 1 million to 11 million.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 1 million 2016: 1 million, which is set at 2% of planning materiality, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, Responsibilities of directors warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, set out on page 98, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
whether due to fraud or error.
Other information In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group and parent companys ability The other information comprises the information included in the annual report and accounts set out on pages 1 to 98, to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated no realistic alternative but to do so.
in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material financial statements.
misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.
Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud The objectives of our audit, in respect to fraud, are: to identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial In this context, we also have nothing to report in regard to our responsibility to specifically address the following items in the other statements due to fraud: to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement information and to report as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information where we conclude that those items due to fraud, through designing and implementing appropriate responses: and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected meet the following conditions: fraud identified during the audit.
However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both Fair, balanced and understandable, set out on page 98 the statement given by the directors that they consider the those charged with governance of the entity and management.
annual report and accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 106 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 106 Our approach was as follows: We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and determined that the most significant frameworks which are directly relevant to specific assertions in the financial statements are those that relate to the reporting framework IFRS, FRS 101, the Companies Act 2006 and UK Corporate Governance Code and the relevant tax compliance regulations in the jurisdictions in which the group operates.
In addition, we concluded that there are certain significant laws and regulations which may have an effect on the determination of the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements being the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, and those laws and regulations relating to health and safety, employee matters, food standards and food safety.
We understood how the group is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible for legal and compliance procedures and the company secretary.
We corroborated our enquiries through our review of board minutes, papers provided to the Audit committee and correspondence received from regulatory bodies.
We assessed the susceptibility of the groups financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur, by meeting with management from various parts of the business to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud.
We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts.
We considered the programs and controls that the group has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud: and how senior management monitors those programs and controls.
Where the risk was considered to be higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk.
These procedures included testing manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from fraud or error.
Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and regulations identified in the paragraphs above.
Our procedures involved: journal entry testing, with a focus on manual consolidation journals and journals indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business: enquiries of legal counsel, group management, internal audit, divisional management and all full and specific scope management: and focused testing, as referred to in the key audit matters section above.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at https: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Other matters we are required to address Following the recommendation of the Audit committee, we were appointed as auditor by the shareholders and signed an engagement letter on 20 April 2017.
We were appointed by the Company at the AGM on 9 December 2016 to audit the financial statements for the 52 weeks ending 16 September 2017 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments is two years, covering the 53 weeks ending 17 September 2016 and the 52 weeks ending 16 September 2017.
The non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the Company and we remain independent of the group and the Company in conducting the audit.
The audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit committee.
Andrew Walton Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 7 November 2017 Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
