100 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 100 Overview of our audit approach Key audit matters Audit scope Materiality Assessment of the carrying value of We performed an audit of the complete We used a group materiality of 60 million, goodwill, other intangible assets and financial information of 126 components which represents 5% of profit before property, plant and equipment and audit procedures on specific balances taxation adjusted for one-off items for a further 58 components.
Tax provisions The components where we performed Revenue recognition, including the risk full or specific scope audit procedures of management override accounted for 92% of profit before taxation Changes in finance systems and processes, adjusted for one-off items normalised including the capitalisation of system profit before taxation, 89% of revenue implementation costs New in 2017 and 86% of total assets.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Key observations communicated to the Risk Our response to the risk Audit committee Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, We understood the methodology applied by management We agreed with other intangible assets and property, in performing its impairment test for each of the relevant managements conclusion plant and equipment 6,884 million, 2016: CGUs and walked through the controls over the process.
that no impairments were 6,493 million required, based on the For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the The group has a significant value of goodwill, results of our work.
Of key inputs and assumptions would need to fluctuate other intangible assets and property, plant and the groups assets, the before an impairment was triggered and considered equipment that has arisen from acquisitions portion relating to the UK the likelihood of this occurring.
We performed our own and capital investments.
The UK Bakeries Bakeries business is very sensitivities on the groups forecasts and determined 260 million, AB Mauri 745 million and sensitive to reasonably whether adequate headroom remained.
Australian meat 157 million businesses possible changes in key For CGUs where there were indicators of impairment have all experienced challenging trading assumptions.
Management or low levels of headroom, including the three environments in recent years.
describes these CGUs described, we performed detailed testing to sensitivities appropriately The UK Bakeries and Australian meat businesses critically assess and corroborate the key inputs to in the property, plant and operate in environments of significant retailer the valuations, including: equipment note to the pressure on price and competitor activity.
group financial statements, analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual AB Mauris profitability has been impacted by in accordance with IAS 36. results to determine whether forecast cash flows competitive pricing pressures in some of its Similar disclosures have are reliable based on past experience: businesses compounded by macro-economic also been made for the AB for certain CGUs, visiting factories to better understand conditions, including high inflation rates and Mauri and Australian meat the operations and to assess the ability to achieve currency devaluations.
businesses given their forecast volume growth, operational improvements levels of sensitivities.
There is a risk that these cash generating and production yields: units CGUs may not achieve the anticipated corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining business performance to support their carrying the underlying data used in the calculation and value, leading to an impairment charge that benchmarking it against market data and comparable has not been recognised by management.
organisations: and Significant judgement is required in forecasting validating the growth rates assumed by comparing the future cash flows of each CGU, together them to economic and industry forecasts.
with the rate at which they are discounted.
We assessed the disclosures in notes 8 and 9 against Refer to the audit committee report page 72 : the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in accounting policies page 115 : accounting particular in respect of the requirement to disclose estimates and judgements page 116 : and notes further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably possible 8 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements change in a key assumption would cause an impairment.
For the AB Mauri CGU, the audit procedures performed to address this risk were performed by the group audit team.
The Australian meat and UK Bakeries operating intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were subject to full scope audit procedures by the respective component teams, and reviewed by the group team.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
