Governance DIRECTORS REPORT 97 96 97 so far as the Company is aware, Authority to issue shares in addition to these bank facilities, The Company has a major technical Annual general meeting the independence provisions included At the last AGM, held on 9 December the Company has in issue 558m of centre in the UK at the Allied Technical The AGM will be held on 8 December in the Relationship Agreement have 2016, authority was given to the directors private placement notes to institutional Centre.
Facilities also exist at ACH 2017 at 11.00 am at Congress Centre, been complied with by the controlling to allot unissued relevant securities in the investors.
In accordance with the Food Companies in the US, Weston 28 Great Russell Street, London WC1B shareholders and their associates: and Company up to a maximum of an amount scheduled maturities, 15m private Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia 3LS.
Details of the resolutions to be equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in placement notes were repaid in and the Netherlands, and AB Enzymes proposed are set out in a separate so far as the Company is aware, issue of which one-third must be offered March 2017.
In the event of a change in Germany.
These centres support the Notice of meeting which accompanies the procurement obligation included by way of rights issue.
This authority in ownership of the Company, the technical resources of the trading divisions this report for shareholders receiving hard in the Relationship Agreement expires on the date of this years AGM Company is obliged to make an in the search for new technology and copy documents and which is available as regards compliance with the to be held on 8 December 2017.
No such offer of immediate repayment to in monitoring and maintaining high at www.
co. uk for those who elected independence provisions by the shares have been issued.
The directors the remaining note holders.
standards of quality and food safety.
Non-signing Controlling Shareholders propose to renew this authority at the All resolutions for which notice has There are no agreements between Branches and their associates, has been 2017 AGM for the forthcoming year.
been given will be decided on a poll.
the Company and its directors or The Company, through various complied with by Wittington.
A further special resolution passed at the employees providing for compensation subsidiaries, has established branches On behalf of the board Major interests in shares 2016 meeting granted authority to the for loss of office or employment that in a number of different countries in As at 16 September 2017, the Company directors to allot equity securities in the occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
had received formal notification, Company for cash, without regard to the Paul Lister under the Disclosure Guidance and Political donations Post-balance sheet events pre-emption provisions of the Companies Company Secretary Transparency Rules, of the following During the year, the Company did not Significant events affecting the group Act 2006.
This authority also expires 7 November 2017 material interest in its shares: make any political donations or incur any that have arisen between 16 September on the date of the 2017 AGM and the political expenditure in the UK or EU.
2017 and the date of this report and that Associated British Foods plc directors will seek to renew this authority % of require disclosure are described in note Registered office: Number issued Date of for the forthcoming year.
At the AGM this year, shareholders will of ordinary share notification 21 on page 136.
Weston Centre, 10 Grosvenor Street be asked to give authority under Part 14 Shareholder shares capital of interest Authority to purchase own shares London W1K 4QY of the Companies Act, for the period of Disclosure of information to auditor The Companies Act 2006 empowers The Capital one year, for the Company and its Each of the directors who held office at Company No.
293262 Group the Company to purchase its own shares subsidiaries to make political donations the date of approval of this Directors Companies, 15 May subject to the necessary shareholder and incur political expenditure up to a report confirms that: Inc. 78,284,198 9.88 2017 approval.
The Company has no existing maximum aggregate sum of 100,000. authority to purchase its own shares.
so far as he she is aware, there is no No changes in the holdings of 3% or The Company has a longstanding policy relevant audit information of which the more of the voting rights in the Amendment to Companys not to make political donations or to incur Companys auditor is unaware: and Companys ordinary shares have been articles of association political expenditure within the ordinary notified to the Company between Any amendments to the Articles may be meaning of those words and the each director has taken all the 16 September 2017 and 1 November 2017. made in accordance with the provisions directors have no intention of changing reasonable steps that he she ought of the Companies Act 2006 by way of that policy.
However, as the definitions to have taken as a director to make Details of the Companys controlling special resolution of the shareholders.
used in the Companies Act 2006 are himself herself aware of any relevant shareholders for the purpose of the Listing broad, it is possible that normal activities audit information and to establish that Rules who, as at 16 September 2017, Significant agreements which might not be thought to be political the Companys auditor is aware of had a combined interest in approximately change of control expenditure in the usual sense could be that information.
59.15% of the voting rights in the The group has contractual arrangements caught.
The authority is therefore being Companys ordinary shares are set with many parties including directors, For these purposes, relevant audit sought purely as a precaution.
employees, customers, suppliers information means information needed and banking groups.
The following Financial risk management by the Companys auditor in connection Share capital arrangements are considered to be Details of the groups use of financial with the preparation of its report on Details of the Companys share capital significant in terms of their potential instruments, together with information pages 99 to 106. and the rights attached to the Companys impact on the business of the group on our risk objectives and policies, shares are set out in note 20 on page 135.
Auditor as a whole and could alter or terminate including the policy for hedging each The Company has one class of share Resolutions for the re-appointment on a change of control of the Company: major type of forecasted transaction 15 capital: ordinary shares of 5 p. The 22 of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of for which hedge accounting is used, rights and obligations attaching to these the group has a number of borrowing the Company and to authorise the and our exposure to price, credit, liquidity, shares are governed by English law and facilities provided by various banking Audit committee to determine its cash flow and interest rate risks, can the Companys Articles.
These facility agreements remuneration are to be proposed be found in note 24 on pages 138 to 147. generally include change of control at the forthcoming AGM.
No shareholder holds securities carrying provisions which, in the event of a Research and development special rights with regard to the control change in ownership of the Company, Innovative use of existing and emerging of the Company.
There are no restrictions could result in their renegotiation or technologies will continue to be crucial on voting rights.
The most significant of to the successful development of new There are no restrictions on the holding these are the 1.2bn syndicated loan products and processes for the group.
or transfer of the ordinary shares other facility signed on 15 July 2014 which than the standard restrictions for an was undrawn at the year end: and English incorporated company set out in article 32 of the Companys Articles.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
