Governance INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 101 100 101 Overview of our audit approach Key observations communicated to the Key audit matters Audit scope Materiality Risk Our response to the risk Audit committee Assessment of the carrying value of We performed an audit of the complete We used a group materiality of 60 million, Tax provisions included within the income We understood: We consider the amounts goodwill, other intangible assets and financial information of 126 components which represents 5% of profit before tax liability of 170 million, 2016: 147 million provided to be within the groups process for determining the completeness property, plant and equipment and audit procedures on specific balances taxation adjusted for one-off items The global nature of the groups operations an acceptable range in and measurement of provisions for tax: for a further 58 components.
Tax provisions results in complexities in the payment of and the context of the groups The components where we performed Revenue recognition, including the risk the methodology for the calculation of the tax accounting for tax.
overall tax exposures full or specific scope audit procedures of management override charge: and and our materiality.
Management applies judgement in assessing accounted for 92% of profit before taxation Changes in finance systems and processes, managements controls over tax reporting.
tax exposures in each jurisdiction, many of adjusted for one-off items normalised including the capitalisation of system which require interpretation of local tax laws.
profit before taxation, 89% of revenue The group audit team, including tax specialists, evaluated implementation costs New in 2017 the tax positions taken by management in each significant and 86% of total assets.
Given this judgement, there is a risk that tax provisions are misstated.
jurisdiction in the context of local tax law, correspondence Key audit matters with tax authorities and the status of any tax audits.
Refer to the audit committee report page 72 : Our work utilised additional support from country tax Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial accounting policies page 114 : accounting specialists in Australia, China, Germany, Ireland, Spain statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due estimates and judgements page 116 : and and the US.
to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation note 5 to the consolidated financial statements of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context We assessed the groups transfer pricing judgements, page 122. of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on considering the way in which we observed the groups these matters.
businesses operating and the correspondence and agreements reached with tax authorities.
Key observations communicated to the Revenue recognition, including the risk We understood each businesss revenue recognition Based on the procedures Risk Our response to the risk Audit committee of management override 15,357 million, policies and how they are applied, including the relevant performed, including 2016: 13,399 million controls, and tested controls over revenue recognition those in respect of trade Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill, We understood the methodology applied by management We agreed with There continues to be pressure on the group where appropriate.
deductions and rebates other intangible assets and property, in performing its impairment test for each of the relevant managements conclusion to meet expectations and targets.
Management in the Grocery segment, plant and equipment 6,884 million, 2016: CGUs and walked through the controls over the process.
that no impairments were We discussed key contractual arrangements with reward and incentive schemes based on we did not identify any 6,493 million required, based on the management and obtained relevant documentation, For all CGUs we calculated the degree to which the achieving profit targets may also place evidence of material The group has a significant value of goodwill, results of our work.
Of including in respect of rebate and returns arrangements.
key inputs and assumptions would need to fluctuate pressure to manipulate revenue recognition.
misstatement in the other intangible assets and property, plant and the groups assets, the Where rebate arrangements existed, we obtained before an impairment was triggered and considered revenue recognised equipment that has arisen from acquisitions portion relating to the UK The majority of the groups sales arrangements third party confirmations or performed appropriate the likelihood of this occurring.
We performed our own in the year.
The UK Bakeries Bakeries business is very are generally straightforward, being on a point alternative procedures, including review of contracts sensitivities on the groups forecasts and determined 260 million, AB Mauri 745 million and sensitive to reasonably of sale basis and requiring little judgement to and recalculation of rebates.
We also performed hindsight whether adequate headroom remained.
Australian meat 157 million businesses possible changes in key be exercised.
However, in the Grocery segment, analysis over changes to prior period rebate estimates For CGUs where there were indicators of impairment have all experienced challenging trading assumptions.
Management management estimates the level of trade to challenge the assumptions made, including assessing or low levels of headroom, including the three environments in recent years.
describes these promotions and rebates to be applied to its the estimates for evidence of management bias.
CGUs described, we performed detailed testing to sensitivities appropriately sales to customers, adding a level of judgement The UK Bakeries and Australian meat businesses For a number of businesses, including Primark, as part critically assess and corroborate the key inputs to in the property, plant and to revenue recognition.
Approximately 3% operate in environments of significant retailer of our overall revenue recognition testing we used data the valuations, including: equipment note to the 2016: 4% of the groups gross revenue pressure on price and competitor activity.
analysis tools on 100% of revenue transactions in the group financial statements, is subject to such arrangements.
analysing the historical accuracy of budgets to actual year to test the correlation of revenue to cash receipts AB Mauris profitability has been impacted by in accordance with IAS 36. results to determine whether forecast cash flows There is a risk that management may override to verify the occurrence of revenue.
This provided us competitive pricing pressures in some of its Similar disclosures have are reliable based on past experience: controls to intentionally misstate revenue with a high level of assurance over 10.8 billion 71% businesses compounded by macro-economic also been made for the AB for certain CGUs, visiting factories to better understand transactions, either through the judgements of revenue recognised.
For those in-scope businesses conditions, including high inflation rates and Mauri and Australian meat the operations and to assess the ability to achieve made in estimating rebates in the Grocery where we did not use data analysis tools, we currency devaluations.
businesses given their forecast volume growth, operational improvements segment or by recording fictitious revenue performed appropriate alternative procedures levels of sensitivities.
There is a risk that these cash generating and production yields: transactions across the business.
units CGUs may not achieve the anticipated corroborating the discount rate used by obtaining Refer to the accounting policies page 113 : We performed cut-off testing for a sample of revenue business performance to support their carrying the underlying data used in the calculation and and note 1 to the consolidated financial transactions around the period end date, to check that value, leading to an impairment charge that benchmarking it against market data and comparable statements pages 117 to 119. they were recognised in the appropriate period.
has not been recognised by management.
organisations: and Other audit procedures specifically designed to address Significant judgement is required in forecasting validating the growth rates assumed by comparing the risk of management override of controls included the future cash flows of each CGU, together them to economic and industry forecasts.
journal entry testing, applying particular focus to the with the rate at which they are discounted.
We assessed the disclosures in notes 8 and 9 against timing of revenue transactions.
Refer to the audit committee report page 72 : the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in We assessed the disclosures against the requirements accounting policies page 115 : accounting particular in respect of the requirement to disclose of IAS 18 Revenue, in particular in respect of the estimates and judgements page 116 : and notes further sensitivities for CGUs where a reasonably possible requirement to disclosure rebate and returns 8 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements change in a key assumption would cause an impairment.
For the AB Mauri CGU, the audit procedures performed We performed full and specific scope audit procedures to address this risk were performed by the group audit over this risk area in 94 locations, which covered 89% team.
The Australian meat and UK Bakeries operating of the groups revenue.
intangible assets and property, plant and equipment were subject to full scope audit procedures by the respective component teams, and reviewed by the group team.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
