Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 105 Glossary Alternative Performance Measures In reporting financial information, the Group presents alternative performance measures, APMs, which are not defined or specified under the requirements of IFRS.
The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be a substitute for or superior to IFRS measures, provide stakeholders with additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group and are consistent with how business performance is measured internally.
The alternative performance measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures.
The key APMs that the Group uses are outlined below.
APM Closest equivalent Reconciling items Definition and purpose IFRS measure to IFRS measure Income Statement Measures Fixed charges cover None Refer to definition This performance measure calculates the number of times Profit before tax is able to cover the total fixed charges included in calculating profit or loss.
Fixed charges included in this measure are net finance charges and net operating lease rentals.
The calculation of this measure is outlined in Note 7.
Gross margin Gross Not applicable Where referred to throughout the Annual Report, gross margin profit margin is calculated as gross profit divided by revenue.
Like-forMovement in - Revenue change Like-for-like revenue is the change in revenue from stores that like revenue revenue per the from non like-forhave been open for at least a year, with a similar selling space at a constant foreign exchange rate.
A reconciliation of these income statement like stores percentages is provided below.
- Foreign Travel High Street Group exchange impact LFL revenue change 4% 4 % -% Net new space impact 2% 1 % 1% Foreign exchange impact 3% -% 1% Total revenue change 9% 5 % 2% High Street and Group Refer to definition Group profit from trading operations and High Street and Travel Travel trading operating profit trading profit are stated after directly attributable share-based profit, and Group payment and pension service charges and before central costs, profit from finance costs and income tax expense.
trading operations A reconciliation from the above measures to Group operating profit and Group profit before tax is provided in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Balance Sheet Measures Net funds None Reconciliation of Net debt is defined as Cash and cash equivalents, less Bank net debt overdrafts and other borrowings and both current and noncurrent Obligations under finance leases.
A reconciliation of Net funds is provided in Note 20.
Other measures Free cash flow Net cash See Free cash flow is defined as the net cash inflow from operating inflow from Financial Review activities before pension deficit funding, less capital expenditure operating activities on property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, net interest paid received and for 2016, repayments to HMRC see Note 9.
The components of free cash flow are shown on page 15, as part of the Strategic Report Financial Review.
Return on capital None Not applicable Return on capital employed is calculated as trading profit employed ROCE expressed as a percentage of operating capital employed.
The calculation of ROCE is shown on page 16, as part of the Strategic Report Financial Review.
