56 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101, and applicable law.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB have been followed for the Group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS101, have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the Annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on page 39, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Dual IFRS European Union and IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Stephen Clarke Group Chief Executive Robert Moorhead Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 12 October 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 57 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR AUDIT APPROACH Opinion Overview In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Group financial statements the Materiality financial statements : Overall Group materiality: 6.8 million 2016: 6.5 million, based on 5 per cent of profit before tax.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 August 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year Audit scope then ended: The WH Smith PLC Group operates under five components: High Street, Travel UK, Travel International, Central and have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as the Company.
adopted by the European Union: and We performed a full scope audit on the High Street and Travel have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of UK components, whilst performing specified audit procedures the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial over balances within the Central and Company ledgers based statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
on their overall size and values of their specific financial We have audited the financial statements, included within statement line items.
the Annual Report and accounts 2017 the Annual Report, Our audit scoping gave us coverage of 98 per cent of profit which comprise: the Group balance sheet as at 31 August before tax, with 94 per cent coverage of revenue.
2017: the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group cash flow statement, and the Key audit matters Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: Recognition of supplier income.
and the notes to the financial statements, which include a Inventory valuation.
description of the significant accounting policies.
Impairment review of store assets.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit Committee.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by IASB Pension scheme valuation.
As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
Other than those disclosed in the Audit Committee Report, wehave provided no non-audit services to the Group in the year from 1 September 2016 to 31 August 2017.
58 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued The scope of our audit Key audit matters As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the financial statements of the current year and include the most the directors made subjective judgements, for example in significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not respect of significant accounting estimates that involved due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had making assumptions and considering future events that the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement addressed the risk of management override of internal team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion misstatement due to fraud.
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Recognition of supplier income Refer to Note 1 c Accounting policies and page 34 for the Our audit work in respect of supplier income comprised views of the Audit Committee.
substantive testing of a sample of income recognised in the income statement during the year and testing of accrued and The Group earns supplier income under numerous different deferred amounts in the balance sheet.
The main elements of our arrangements with its suppliers.
The arrangements vary work are considered in more detail below.
in nature and size but include volume based retrospective discounts and payments for space given to marketing Income statement testing campaigns.
Supplier income is recognised as a deduction We requested confirmations directly from a number of different from cost of sales and is earned over the period of the suppliers, in respect of a sample of supplier income transactions.
contractual agreements with individual suppliers.
The total The confirmations allowed us to evaluate whether the income income recognised is therefore based on the expected had been appropriately recognised accurately and in the year.
entitlement earned up to the balance sheet date under each Where responses were not received, we performed alternative supplier agreement.
procedures including agreement to contracts and cash receipts.
We found accounting for these amounts did not require significant The amount of supplier income recognised in the year levels of judgement or estimation as income such as volume based resulted from mainly high volume, low value transactions for discounts are calculated based on actual sales data rather than agreements such as volume based retrospective discounts future forecasts.
No significant issues were identified through the and payments for guaranteed in store space dedicated to testing performed.
Therefore, limited judgement or estimation was required in determining the amount the Group is entitled to, Furthermore, we analysed supplier income by type recognised as the majority of volume based agreements are based on each month and compared it to the previous year to identify any historical sales as opposed to forecast volumes.
Our focus unusual trends in the amounts or timing of supplier income for all types of supplier income was therefore whether an recognised in each year.
No unusual trends were identified.
agreement for the income recognised existed, whether Balance sheet testing income was recognised in accordance with the agreement In the sample of confirmations detailed above, we included and whether it was recognised in the correct year.
requests for the year end receivables to be confirmed.
We performed cut-off procedures and credit note testing to provide further evidence to support the timing of the recognition of supplier income and the value of the accrued and deferred balances.
Our cut-off work involved testing a sample of supplier income amounts by reference to documentation from suppliers to confirm the timing of recognition was appropriate.
Our credit note testing focused on credit notes raised after the year end in order to identify instances of supplier income being subsequently reversed.
We did not identify any exceptions from this work.
In respect of the supplier income balances set out in Note 15 to the financial statements we tested the existence and appropriateness of recognition through direct confirmation with suppliers for the invoiced amounts and corroboration to contracts and assessment of assumptions made for the uninvoiced amounts.
We assessed the ageing of both outstanding supplier income and promotional funding supplier income debtors, together with our understanding of details of any disputes.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 59 KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Inventory valuation Refer to Note 1 p for the directors disclosure on the critical We attended a number of stock counts across High Street and accounting judgements and key sources of estimation Travel stores and distribution centres.
In addition to performing uncertainty and page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
sample test counts, we validated the effectiveness of the count controls in operation at each site.
Inventory consists of a number of product categories including books, news and magazines, impulse, stationary, travel We also evaluated the results of other cycle counts performed by essentials and digital.
A large proportion of stock is supplied management and third parties throughout the year to assess the through sale or return arrangements, including the majority level of count variances.
of books, newspapers and magazines and therefore these are We reviewed the shrink results from the counts performed in the considered to be lower risk than inventory acquired through year and compared them to historical shrink rate data to identify outright purchases such as stationery.
any significant unusual fluctuations which may indicate a different Inventory is initially valued using a weighted average cost provision is required.
Provisions are then recognised against A substantive test was performed to ensure stock was held at the inventory for estimated losses related to shrinkage and slow lower of cost versus its net realisable value.
The obsolescence provision is calculated by applying a judgemental We focused on the valuation of inventory due to the magnitude percentage to the year end stock levels, based on historical of the inventory balance, the range and age of the inventory obsolescence data, as well as managements view of the current considering the nature of the business and the judgements stock profile and forecast sales by product line.
We performed made by management when assessing the level of an analysis of the provision applied per stock category against provision required.
the previous year, in the light of trading results and the stock Inventory is counted by the Group throughout the year.
As such the shrinkage provision at 31 August 2017 is based on We also tested the aging of the inventory and validated the source historical shrinkage rates and contains a degree of estimation.
inventory balances upon which the provision is based.
Furthermore, we considered write-offs in the year as an indicator of a requirement for further or less provision.
In performing the above assessment, we concluded the valuation of the stock balance is appropriate as at 31 August 2017.
Impairment review of store assets Refer to Note 1 p Accounting policies for the directors Our audit work included obtaining managements impairment disclosure on the critical accounting judgements and key assessment and discussing the basis for their decision whether or sources of estimation uncertainty and Notes 13 and 14 Other not to impair store assets.
intangible assets and Property, plant & equipment.
We agreed individual store trading performance to underlying As at 31 August 2017 management assessed the Groups store records including trading data and confirmed that those that were assets comprising leasehold improvements and fixtures and loss making were appropriately impaired where an improvement fittings for indication of impairment.
The economic and sector in results could not be expected, this testing did not highlight any trends facing the Group may adversely impact the recoverable significant issues: and value of assets used within the store portfolio which is We performed a review of the results for all stores to ensure that considered to be a triggering event for impairment review.
managements identification of loss making stores was complete.
Management considers each store to be a cash generating This did not identify any further stores requiring impairment to unit CGU and has performed a review of the trading results be recognised.
of the stores for the year.
Where a store is loss making and is not expected to return to profitability in the near future, an impairment charge is recognised over the assets that cannot be recycled within the store portfolio as set out in Note 14 Property, plant and equipment.
We focused on this area because of the sales and cost pressure that could mean further impairment of the store assets is needed.
60 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Property-related provisions Refer to Note 1 p for the directors disclosure on the critical We obtained managements assessment of properties requiring accounting judgements and key sources of estimation provisions and obtained an understanding of the rationale, uncertainty and page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
including the basis for the calculation.
We agreed a sample of the properties to underlying documents including lease agreements Given the long history of WH Smith, the Group has an and written communications from third parties for onerous lease extensive property portfolio of both existing and former WH provisions.
In doing so, we agreed the lease costs incurred by the Smith properties now sublet or vacant held under operating Group and any amounts being received as income from lessees leases, which requires the directors to make significant where the Group is sub-letting properties at a shortfall.
judgements and estimates relating to the need to provide for dilapidation costs and onerous leases when the store is For dilapidations provisions, we compared managements making losses or when stores are earmarked for closure.
estimates to either: correspondence of amounts to be paid These judgements include assessing: the duration of the where stores have been vacated : or in the case of stores yet to lease, estimations of costs and future income potential and as be vacated, historical amounts incurred by the Group for similar such, remains a key audit matter for us.
This confirmed managements estimates were in line with previous experience, or were supported by communication from landlords or property consultants.
We performed an independent assessment of provisions required through review of the schedule of leases and comparing these to the individual stores current and previous year contribution.
We also performed a sense check against loss-making stores within our work over store impairment.
The work we performed indicated that management have sufficient provisions held for property matters at 31 August 2017.
Pension scheme valuation Refer to Note 1 p for the directors disclosure on the critical We obtained the actuarial report for the WH Smith Pension Trust accounting judgements and key sources of estimation Retail Section for the scheme as at 31st August 2017. uncertainty and Note 4 Retirement benefit obligations and We tested the pension assumptions, including discount rates, page 34 for the views of the Audit Committee.
salary increases, inflation and mortality, utilising our specialist The Group has two defined benefit pension plans which knowledge of pensions.
We considered and challenged the comprise total plan assets of 1,346m and total pension reasonableness of the actuarial assumptions comparing the liabilities of 1,079m which are significant in the context of discount and inflation rates used against our internally developed the overall balance sheet of the Group.
The valuation of the benchmark ranges, finding them to be within an acceptable schemes liabilities requires significant level of judgement range.
Other assumptions were also assessed and considered to and technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions.
Changes in a number of the key assumptions can have a The most recent triennial valuation was completed in March 2017, material impact on the position as disclosed in the Note 4 of therefore census data supporting the actuarial report has been the financial statements.
updated during the current year.
We agreed a sample of the data We focused on this area because of the impact of the used by the actuary to supporting payroll information.
judgements inherent in the actual assumptions involved in the valuation of the schemes liabilities.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 61 How we tailored the audit scope We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed them misstatements identified during our audit above 340k enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial 2016: 325k as well as misstatements below that amount that, statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry Going concern in which it operates.
In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed Reporting obligation Outcome enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial We are required to report if we We have nothing material statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic have anything material to add to add or to draw attention structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, or draw attention to in respect to.
However, because not all and the industry in which the Group operates.
of the directors statement future events or conditions The WH Smith PLC Group operates under five components.
in the financial statements can be predicted, this There are three trading components: High Street, Travel UK about whether the directors statement is not a guarantee and Travel International which generate revenue for the Group.
considered it appropriate to as to the Groups ability to The Central ledger mainly includes head office costs, including adopt the going concern basis continue as a going concern.
pensions and Group property provisions.
The Company ledger of accounting in preparing the mainly includes equity related balances for the purposes of financial statements and the Group operations such as dividend issues.
directors identification of any material uncertainties to the We performed a full scope audit on the High Street and Travel Groups ability to continue as UK components whilst performing specific procedures over a going concern over a period balances within the Central and Company ledger in co-operation of at least 12 months from with the Swindon and London finance departments.
the date of approval of the Our audit scoping enabled us to account for 98 per cent of profit financial statements.
before tax, with 94 per cent coverage of revenue.
We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
directors statement relating to Materiality Going Concern in accordance The scope of our audit was influenced by our application with Listing Rule 9.8.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materially inconsistent with our materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, knowledge obtained in the audit.
helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 6.8 million 2016: 6.5 million.
5 per cent of profit before tax How we determined it of140m.
Rationale for This is a profit orientated business and profit is one of benchmarkapplied the primary measures used by the shareholders in order to assess performance and this is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
For each component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 4.7 million and 6.3 million.
62 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION The directors explanation on page 24 of the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over The other information comprises all of the information in the what period they have done so and why they consider that Annual Report other than the financial statements and our period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do over the period of their assessment, including any related not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our We have nothing to report having performed a review of responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing the directors statement that they have carried out a robust so, consider whether the other information is materially assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures directors process supporting their statements: checking that to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of financial statements or a material misstatement of the other the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other understanding of the Group its environment obtained in the information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing course of the audit.
to report based on these responsibilities.
Other Code Provisions With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK report when: Companies Act 2006 have been included.
The statement given by the directors, on page 35, that they Based on the responsibilities described above and our work consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, balanced and understandable, and provides the information CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct necessary for the members to assess the Groups position Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and and performance, business model and strategy is materially matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group obtained in the otherwise stated.
course of performing our audit.
Strategic Report and Directors Report The section of the Annual Report on pages 33 to 36 describing In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Directors Report for the year ended 31 August 2017 is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in The directors statement relating to the Companys accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and Directors remuneration Directors Report.
CA06 In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the The directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and Companies Act 2006.
of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: The directors confirmation on page 55 of the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 63 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING AND THE AUDIT Companies Act 2006 exception reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements if, in our opinion we have not received all the information and As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to Responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible report arising from this responsibility.
for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they Appointment give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable were appointed by the members on 21 January 2015 to audit the preparation of financial statements that are free from the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2015 and material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 August 2015 In preparing the financial statements, the directors are to 31 August 2017. responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless OTHER MATTER the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease We have reported separately on the company financial operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial that is described as having been audited.
statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor whether the financial statements as a whole are free from for and on behalf of  LLP material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not London, a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs 12 October 2017 UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of this report This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
