Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 Notes to the financial statements 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Except as outlined below, the directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in a Basis of preparation future years will have no material impact on the Groups The consolidated Group financial statements have been financial statements.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective IFRS IC as adopted by the European Union and with those from periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies establishes a principles based approach for revenue recognition reporting under IFRS.
These are the standards, subsequent and is based on the concept of recognising revenue for amendments and related interpretations issued and adopted by obligations only when they are satisfied and the control of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that have goods and services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts been endorsed by the European Union at the year end.
with customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
The Group is in the process of completing an assessment of the The consolidated Group financial statements have also been impact of IFRS 15 and it is anticipated adoption will not have a prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted for use in the material impact on the recognition and measurement of any of European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU the Groups revenue streams.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis as explained on page IFRS 16, Leases is effective for annual periods beginning on 55 of the Directors report.
or after 1 January 2019 subject to endorsement by the EU.
This standard replaces IAS 17, and will require entities to apply New standards a single lessee accounting model, with lessees recognising The Group has adopted the following standards and right of use assets and lease liabilities on balance sheet for all interpretations which became mandatory during the current applicable leases.
The Group anticipates that the adoption of financial year.
These changes have had no material impact on IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Income statement the Groups financial statements: and Balance sheet including operating profit, profit before Amendments to IFRS 10, Investment Entities: Applying the tax, property plant and equipment and net debt.
There is no IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Consolidation Exception cash impact of adoption of this standard.
The Group is in the Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of process of assessing the impact of IFRS 16 and has invested in Interests in Joint Operations additional resource and systems in order to assess the impact on its existing lease estate which comprises approximately Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate 1,300 property leases, as well as equipment leases.
The Group Financial Statements has established a project group to lead the implementation Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative and work performed to date includes assessing the accounting Amendments to IAS 16 and Clarification of Acceptable impacts of the change, the process of collecting the required IAS 38 Methods of Depreciation data from across the business and the necessary changes to and Amortisation systems and processes.
In order to quantify the impact of Annual improvements 20122014 IFRS 16, management is required to make judgements on alease-by-lease basis including, but not limited to: At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Group the appropriate discount rate by reference to the interest financial statements, the following standards and rate implicit in the lease, or the Groups incremental interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial borrowing rate : statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU : the lease term, including consideration of options to extend: and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts index or rate dependent variable payments that could be with Customers included in the calculation of the lease liability.
Amendments to IFRS 10 and Sale or Contribution of Assets Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide IAS 28 between an Investor and its a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards Associate or Joint Venture until adetailed lease-by-lease review has been completed.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and The undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease Measurement of Share-based commitments at 31 August 2017 disclosed under IAS 17, the Payment Transactions current leasing standard was 841 million see Note 6.
Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of Investment Property Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows IFRS 16 Leases IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration Annual improvements 2014-2016 70 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED All intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains ontransactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Alternative Performance Measures The Group has identified certain measures that it believes will b Revenue assist the understanding of the performance of the business.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration These alternative performance measures, APMs, are not received or receivable and represents amounts receivable defined or specified under the requirements of IFRS.
for goods and services to customers which is the most significant revenue stream, sale of wholesale goods to The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered franchisees, and commission and fee income on concession to be a substitute for or superior to IFRS measures, provide and franchise arrangements.
stakeholders with additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group and Revenue is recognised when the significant risks and rewards are consistent with how business performance is measured of the goods or services provided have transferred to the internally.
The alternative performance measures are not buyer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the with other companies alternative performance measures.
transaction will flow to the Group.
The key APMs that the Group uses include: High Street and Revenue excludes discounts, estimated returns, VAT and other Travel trading profit, Group profit from trading operations, sales-related taxes.
Revenue on store sales of goods and like-for-like revenue, gross margin, fixed charges cover, Net concession sales is recognised when goods are sold to the funds, Return on capital employed and free cash flow.
Internet sales are recognised when the goods are these APMs are set out in the Glossary on page 105 including delivered to the customer and title has passed.
Revenue from explanations of how they are calculated and how they can be gift vouchers and gift cards sold by the Group is recognised reconciled to a statutory measure where relevant.
on the redemption of the gift voucher or gift card.
Revenue on wholesale sale of goods to franchisees is recognised on Accounting convention delivery.
Franchise and concession fees and commission The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost are recognised in revenue as earned based on the terms of basis of accounting, except for certain financial instruments, the contracts.
share-based payments and pensions that have been measured at fair value.
The financial information is rounded to the nearest c Supplier income million, except where otherwise indicated.
The principal The Group receives income from its suppliers in the form accounting policies, which have been applied consistently of supplier incentives and discounts collectively Supplier throughout both years, are set out below.
These incomes are recognised as a deduction from cost of sales on an accruals basis as they are earned for each Basis of consolidation supplier contract.
The level of complexity and judgement is low The consolidated Group financial statements incorporate the in relation to establishing the accounting entries and estimates, financial statements of WH Smith PLC and all its subsidiaries.
and the timing of recognition.
Subsidiary undertakings are all entities over which the Group Supplier incomes that have been invoiced but not received at has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group the period end are recognised in Trade Receivables, or in Trade is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its Payables where we have the right of offset.
Incomes that have involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those been earned but not yet invoiced are accrued and are recorded returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully in Prepayments and accrued income.
consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The types of supplier income recognised by the Group, and the recognition policies are: Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the fair value of Retrospective discounts consideration transferred over the Groups interest in the net Income earned based on sales or purchase volume triggers set fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent bythe supplier for specific products over specific periods.
If, after reassessment, the Groups Income is calculated and invoiced based upon actual sales or interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, purchases over the period set out in the supplier agreement, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the fair value of and is recognised in the income statement as it is earned.
consideration transferred, after taking into account recognised Where the period of an agreement spans accounting periods, goodwill, the excess is immediately recognised in the income income is recognised based on forecasts for expected sales or statement.
The separable net assets, both tangible and purchase volumes, informed by current performance, trends, intangible, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings are and the terms of the supplier agreement.
Income is invoiced incorporated into the financial statements on the basis of the throughout the year in accordance with the specific supplier fair value as at the effective date of control, if appropriate.
The carrying value of inventories is adjusted to reflect Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the unearned elements of supplier income as the product has not financial year are included in the financial statements up to yet been sold.
This income is subsequently recognised in cost of the effective date of disposal.
Where a business component sales when the product has been sold.
representing a separate major line of business is disposed of, or classified as held for sale, it is classified as a discontinued operation.
The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on the face of the income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 71 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED f Intangible assets Business combinations Promotional and marketing activity The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the Supplier income from promotional and marketing activity acquisition method.
The consideration transferred is measured includes income in respect of in-store marketing and point at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of sale, supplying dedicated promotional space or receiving of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity margin support for products on promotion.
instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control, Income for promotional and marketing activity is agreed of the acquiree.
Costs directly attributable to the business with suppliers for specific periods and products.
Income is combination are recognised in the income statement in the recognised over the period of the agreement.
Income is invoiced period they are incurred.
The cost of a business combination is when the performance conditions in the supplier agreement allocated at the acquisition date by recognising the acquirees have been achieved.
identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that satisfy the recognition criteria at their fair values at that date.
d Retirement benefit costs Payments to the WHSmith Group defined contribution pension The acquisition date is the date on which the acquirer effectively schemes are recognised as an expense in the income statement obtains control of the acquiree.
Intangible assets are recognised as they fall due.
if they meet the definition of an intangible asset contained in IAS 38 and its fair value can be measured reliably.
The excess of The cost of providing benefits for the main defined benefit the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of scheme, WHSmith Pension Trust, and the United News Shops identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Retirement Benefits Scheme are determined by the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial calculations being carried out Goodwill at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the net fair value of identifiable assets and Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period liabilities acquired.
They are recognised outside the income statement in the Group statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset at cost and subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
For the The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to those sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit cash-generating units CGUs that have benefited from the obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
The CGUs are groups of stores within the Travel and Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past High Street operating segments.
The carrying value of goodwill service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and is reviewed for impairment at least annually or where there is reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Where the Group an indication that goodwill may be impaired.
If the recoverable is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying pension scheme above the accounting value of the liabilities, an amount, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the onerous obligation is recognised.
carrying amount of the goodwill allocated to the unit and then to e Leasing the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis.
Any impairment Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards subsequently reversed.
of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of operating leases.
goodwill isincluded in the determination of the profit and loss Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of on disposal.
the Group at their fair value determined at the inception of the Other intangible assets lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease The costs of acquiring and developing software that payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in is not integral to the related hardware is capitalised the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments separately as an intangible asset.
These intangibles are apportioned between finance charges and a reduction of are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and the lease obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest impairment losses.
Amortisation is charged so as to write on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are off the costs of assets over their estimated useful lives, using recognised directly in the income statement.
the straight-line method, and is recorded in Distribution Rentals payable and receivable under operating leases are costs.
The estimated lives are usually a of up to five years.
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over Software assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread or, where shorter, over the term oftherelevant lease.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group has a Other intangible assets are valued at cost and amortised number of lease arrangements in which the rent payable is over their useful life, and the amortisation is recorded in contingent on revenue.
Contingent rentals payable, based on Administrative expenses, unless the asset can be demonstrated store revenues, areaccrued in line with revenues generated.
to have an indefinite life.
All intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with IAS 36, Impairment of Assets, when there are indications that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
72 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Inventories Inventories comprise goods held for resale and are stated at the g Property, plant and equipment lower of cost or net realisable value.
Consignment stocks are Property, plant and equipment assets are carried at cost less not included within stocks held by the Group.
Inventories are accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment valued using a weighted average cost method.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets previously revalued have been retained at their book amount.
Cost is calculated to include, where applicable, duties, handling, Depreciation is charged so as to write off the costs of assets, transport and directly attributable costs including a deduction other than land, over their estimated useful lives, using the for applicable supplier income in bringing the inventories to straight-line method, with the annual rates applicable to the their present location and condition.
Net realisable value is principal categories being: based on estimated normal selling prices less further costs expected to be incurred in selling and distribution.
Cost of Freehold properties over 20 years inventories includes the transfer from equity of any gains or Short-term leasehold shorter of the lease period losses on qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
and the estimated remaining economic life Provisions are made for obsolescence, markdown and shrinkage.
Fixtures and fittings up to ten years j Provisions Equipment and vehicles up to ten years Provisions are recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of The residual values of property, plant and equipment are a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic re-assessed on an annual basis.
benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date.
where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Where the effect is material, the provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate At each balance sheet date, property, plant and equipment is which reflects current market assessments of the time value of reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable Onerous contracts property provisions amount is assessed by reference to the net present value The Groups property provisions represent the present value ofexpected future pre-tax cash flows of the relevant of unavoidable future net lease obligations and related costs cash-generating unit or fair value, less costs to sell, if higher.
of leasehold property net of estimated sublease income Any impairment in value is charged to the income statement and adjusted for certain risk factors where the space is inthe period in which it occurs.
vacant, loss-making or currently not planned to be used for ongoing operations.
The unwinding of the discount is treated h Investments in joint ventures as an imputed interest charge and is disclosed in Note 8 as A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an Unwinding of discount on provisions.
interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under a k Foreign currencies contractual agreement.
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups subsidiaries are measured using the currency of the primary Management has assessed whether it has joint control of the economic environment in which the entity operates the arrangement.
Joint control exists only when decisions about the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties presented in pounds sterling GBP, which is WH Smith PLCs that collectively control the arrangement.
In assessing this joint functional and presentation currency.
control no significant judgements have been necessary.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the Group consolidated income statement using the equity method transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary items of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures are carried in the denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates Group consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences changes in the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the impairment in value.
The carrying value of investments in joint retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income ventures includes acquired goodwill.
If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, exceeds its investment in the joint venture, the Group does not the Group enters into forward contracts see below for details recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to of the Groups accounting policies in respect of such derivative do so, or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated into sterling at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 73 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Trade payables Trade payables are initially measured at fair value, and are l Taxation subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective The tax expense included in the income statement comprises interest rate method.
Equity instruments Current tax is the expected tax payable based on the taxable Equity instruments issued are recorded at the proceeds profit for the period, using tax rates that have been enacted or received, net of direct issue costs.
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Deferred tax is recognised on differences between the carrying The Group uses certain derivative financial instruments to amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and reduce its exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable movements.
The Group does not hold or use derivative financial profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability instruments for speculative purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows will be available against which deductible temporary differences are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if recognised immediately in the income statement.
the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or forecasted recognition other than in business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit transaction results in the recognition of an asset or liability, then, at the time the asset or liability is recognised, the nor the accounting profit.
associated gains or losses on the derivative that had The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at previously been recognised in equity are included in the initial each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no measurement of the asset or liability.
For hedges that do not longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax deferred in equity are recognised in the income statement in the is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the same period in which the hedged item affects net income.
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair Current and deferred tax is charged or credited in the income value of a recognised asset or liability, changes in fair value statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited of the hedging instrument are recognised in profit or loss at directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is the same time that the recognised asset or liability that is also recognised directly in equity.
being hedged is adjusted for movements in the hedged risk and that adjustment is also recognised in profit or loss in the m Financial instruments same period.
Trade receivables Trade receivables are measured at initial recognition, do not Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments carry any interest and are stated at their fair value and are that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective income statement as they arise.
Appropriate allowances for estimated Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument irrecoverable amounts are recognised in the income statement expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer when there is evidence that the asset is impaired.
At that time, any cumulative Cash and cash equivalents gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net maturity of three months or less.
cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is transferred to the net profit or loss for the period.
Financial liabilities and equity Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other according to the substance of the contractual arrangements host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences risks and characteristics are not closely related to those a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of host contracts and the host contracts are not carried at ofits liabilities.
fair value with unrealised gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are initially n Share schemes measured at fair value being proceeds received, net of direct WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust issue costs, and are subsequently measured at amortised The shares held by the WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust are cost, using the effective interest rate method recorded as the valued at the historical cost of the shares acquired.
They are proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, deducted in arriving at shareholders funds and are presented including premiums payable on settlement or redemptions and asan other reserve.
direct issue costs are accounted for on an accruals basis and taken to the income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
74 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment impairment reviews Share-based payments The Group is required to review goodwill annually to determine Employees of the Group receive part of their remuneration if any impairment has occurred.
Value-in-use calculations in the form of share-based payment transactions, whereby require the use of estimates in relation to future cash flows employees render services in exchange for shares or rights and suitable discount rates.
Further information in respect of over shares equity settled transactions.
the Groups goodwill and other intangible assets is included in Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair Notes 12 and 13 respectively.
value at the date of grant.
The fair value is calculated using an Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are appropriate option pricing model.
The fair value is expensed to reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that will When a review for impairment is conducted the recoverable eventually vest.
amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is determined For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is recognised based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of at the current fair value determined at each balance sheet date, managements assumptions and estimates.
Further information taking into account performance conditions and the extent in respect of the Groups property, plant and equipment is to which employees have rendered service to date, with any included in Note 14. changes in fair value recognised in the profit or loss for the year.
Inventory valuation o Dividends Inventory is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements which requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of in the period in which they are approved by the Companys goods to customers in the future.
Any difference between the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in expected and the actual sales price achieved will be accounted which they are approved and paid.
for in the period in which the sale is made.
A description of the Groups accounting policy in respect of inventories is included in p Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Note 1 i. estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements in conformity with Provisions generally accepted accounting principles requires management Provisions have been estimated for taxation, onerous leases and to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported discontinued operation exit costs.
These provisions represent amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of the best estimate of the liability at the time of the balance sheet contingent assets and liabilities.
Significant items subject to date, the actual liability being dependent on future events such assumption and estimate include the useful economic life such as economic environment and marketplace demand.
of assets: the measurement and recognition of provisions: the Expectations will be revised each period until the actual liability recognition of deferred tax assets: the liabilities for potential arises, with any difference accounted for in the period in which corporation tax: and valuation of retirement benefit obligations.
Further information in respect of the Actual results could differ from these estimates and any Groups onerous lease and discontinued operations provisions subsequent changes are accounted for with an effect on income is included in Note 18 and further information in respect of the at the time such updated information becomes available.
Groups tax provisions is included in Note 9.
The most critical accounting policies in determining the financial condition and results of the Group are those requiring the greatest degree of subjective or complex judgement.
These relate to retirement benefit obligations, valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets, onerous lease costs, inventory valuation and taxation.
Retirement benefit obligation The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational requirement of IAS 19, Retirement Benefit Obligations.
The calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life expectancy, amongst others.
Changes in these assumptions can have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit obligation.
Further information in respect of the Groups retirement benefit obligation is included in Note 4.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 75 2.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS OF RESULTS For management and financial reporting purposes, the Group is organised into two operating divisions and reportable segments - Traveland High Street.
The Groups operating segments are based on the reports reviewed by the Board of Directors who are collectively considered to be thechief operating decision maker to make strategic decisions, and allocate resources.
IFRS 8 requires segment information to be presented on the same basis as that used by the Board for assessing performance and allocating resources.
a Group revenue m 2017 2016 Continuing operations: Travel 624 573 High Street 610 639 Group revenue 1,234 1,212 b Group results m 2017 2016 Continuing operations: Travel 96 87 High Street 62 62 Profit from trading operations 158 149 Unallocated costs 16 16 Group operating profit 142 133 Finance costs 2 2 Income tax expense 24 23 Profit for the year 116 108 Included within Travel revenue and trading profit is International revenue of 108m 2016: 79m and International trading profit of 9m 2016: 7m.
c Balance sheet 2017 High m Travel Street Group Assets Segment assets 180 266 446 Unallocated assets 42 Consolidated total assets 180 266 488 Liabilities Segment liabilities 105 136 241 Unallocated liabilities 60 Consolidated total liabilities 105 136 301 Net assets 75 130 187 76 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS OF RESULTS CONTINUED 2016 High m Travel Street Group Assets Segment assets 165 262 427 Unallocated assets 43 Consolidated total assets 165 262 470 Liabilities Segment liabilities 90 148 238 Unallocated liabilities 64 Consolidated total liabilities 90 148 302 Net assets 75 114 168 Segment assets include intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, inventories and receivables.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities.
Included within Travel segment assets are International non-current assets of 27m 2016: 19m.
d Other segmental items 2017 High m Travel Street Group Capital additions 22 28 50 Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 17 24 41 Impairment losses 1 1 2016 High m Travel Street Group Capital additions 22 22 44 Depreciation and amortisation of non-current assets 14 24 38 Impairment losses 1 2 3 3.
GROUP OPERATING PROFIT m 2017 2016 Revenue 1,234 1,212 Cost of sales 501 503 Gross profit 733 709 1 Distribution costs 509 495 Administrative expenses 87 86 2 Other income 5 5 Group operating profit 142 133 1 During the year there was a 1m 2016: 3m impairment charge for property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets included in distribution costs.
2 Other income is profit attributable to property and the sale of plant and equipment.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 77 3.
GROUP OPERATING PROFIT CONTINUED m 2017 2016 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 501 503 Write-down of inventories in the year 5 4 Depreciation and amounts written off property, plant and equipment 36 35 Amortisation and amounts written off intangible assets 6 6 Net operating lease charges land and buildings 200 192 equipment and vehicles 1 1 Other occupancy costs 67 67 Staff costs Note 5 212 202 Auditors remuneration see below Audit services Fees payable to the Groups auditors, included in the income statement relate to: Fees payable to the Groups auditors for the audit of the Groups financial statements 0.2 0.2 Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services to the Group including the audit of the Companyssubsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Total audit and audit-related services 0.3 0.3 Non-audit services Fees payable to the Groups auditors for other services: Taxation compliance services Taxation advisory services All other non-audit services 0.1 0.1 Non-audit fees including taxation and other services 0.1 0.1 Total auditors remuneration 0.4 0.4 Included in Administrative expenses is the auditors remuneration, including expenses for audit and non-audit services, payable to the Groups auditors  LLP and its associates as set out above.
A description of the work performed by the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section of the Directors report and includes an explanation of how auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by auditors.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS WH Smith PLC has operated a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans.
The main pension arrangements for employees are operated through a defined benefit scheme, WHSmith Pension Trust, and a defined contribution scheme, WHSmith Retirement Savings Plan.
The most significant scheme is WHSmith Pension Trust, which is described in Note 4 a i.
The retirement benefit obligations recognised in the balance sheet within non-current liabilities for the respective schemes at the relevant reporting dates were: m 2017 2016 WHSmith Pension Trust 4 5 United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme 2 2 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 6 7 Recognised as: Current liabilities 1 1 Non-current liabilities 5 6 a Defined benefit pension schemes i The WHSmith Pension Trust The WHSmith Pension Trust Final Salary Section is a funded final salary defined benefit scheme: it was closed to defined benefit service accrual on 2 April 2007 and has been closed to new members since 1996.
Benefits are based on service and salary at the date of closure or leaving service, with increases currently based on CPI inflation in deferment and RPI inflation in payment.
78 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The WHSmith Pension Trust is independent of the Group and is administered by a Trustee.
The Trustee is responsible for the administration and management of the scheme on behalf of the members in accordance with the Trust Deed and relevant legislation.
Responsibilities include the investment of funds, the triennial valuation and determining the deficit funding schedule.
Under the terms ofthe Trust Deed there are ten Trustee directors of which three are appointed by the Sponsor, four are membernominated directors, andthree are independent.
Trustee directors are appointed for a term of six years, and are then eligible for re-appointment.
The WHSmith Pension Trust, has assets valued at 1,340m as at 31 August 2017 managed by third party investment managers.
In September 2005, the Pension Trust Trustee adopted a Liability Driven Investment LDI policy where the assets in the investment fund were invested such that they are expected to alter in value in line with changes in the pension liability caused by changes in interest rates and inflation.
The LDI structure that is in place has a number of inflation and interest rate hedges, with collateral posted daily to or from the scheme to the relevant counterparty.
The risk of failure of counterparties could expose the scheme to loss.
The schemes liabilities are also subject to changes in longevity.
The principal risks associated with the Groups defined benefit pension arrangements are as follows: Longevity risk Liabilities are sensitive to life expectancy, with increases in life expectancy leading to an increase in the valuation of liabilities.
Interest rate and Inflation risk Liabilities are sensitive to movements in interest rates and inflation, with lower interest rates or higher inflation leading to an increase inthe valuation of liabilities.
As a result of the LDI policy outlined above, these risks are largely hedged.
An Investment Committee of the Trustees to the scheme meets regularly to review the performance of the investment managers and the scheme as a whole.
The Company is represented on this Committee.
Although investment decisions are the responsibility of the Trustee, the Group is an active participant of the investment sub-committee to ensure that pension plan risks are managed efficiently.
The risk of failure of counterparties and of the investment manager is monitored regularly by the Committee.
The Trustees have the right to determine the level of contributions and the Company has agreed with the Trustees a deficit funding schedule.
A full actuarial valuation of the Scheme is carried out every three years with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the Pension Trust was carried out as at 31 March 2017 by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
At 31 March 2017 the deficit was 11m.
The Group has agreed a revised annual funding schedule with the Trustees from September 2017 for the following six years, which includes the deficit recovery contributions and other running costs, of just under 3m.
During the year ending 31 August 2017, the Group made a contribution of 3m to the WHSmith Pension Trust 2016: 3m in accordance with the agreed pension deficit funding schedule, being 1m of deficit funding payable to the Trustee and 2m in relation to investment management costs.
The Group expects the cash payments for the year ended 31 August 2018, to be 3m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 19 years.
Amounts recognised in the financial statements Balance Sheet The amounts recognised in the balance sheet under IAS 19 in relation to this plan are as follows: m 2017 2016 Present value of the obligations 1,071 1,260 Fair value of plan assets 1,340 1,424 Surplus before consideration of asset ceiling 269 164 Amounts not recognised due to effect of asset ceiling 269 164 Additional liability recognised due to minimum funding requirements 4 5 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 4 5 In accordance with the requirements of IFRIC 14 we have recognised the schedule of contributions as a liability of 4m 2016: 5m.
The defined benefit pension schemes are closed to further accrual and the present value of the economic benefits of the IAS 19 surplus in the pension scheme of 269m 2016: 164m available on a reduction of future contributions is nil 2016: nil.
As a result the Group has not recognised this IAS 19 surplus on the balance sheet.
There is an ongoing actuarial deficit primarily due to the different assumptions and calculation methodologies used compared to those on interpretation of IAS 19.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 79 4.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED Income Statement The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows: m 2017 2016 Net interest cost on the defined benefit liability 1 1 The net interest cost has been included in finance costs Note 8.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Statement of comprehensive income Total expense recognised in the statement of comprehensive income SOCI : m 2017 2016 Actuarial gain on defined benefit obligations arising from experience 111 20 Actuarial gain loss on defined benefit obligations arising from changes in financial assumptions 28 330 Actuarial gain loss on defined benefit obligations arising from changes in demographic assumptions 11 5 Total actuarial gain loss before consideration of asset ceiling 150 315 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest cost 51 255 Loss gain resulting from changes in amounts not recognised due to effect of asset ceiling excluding amounts recognised in net interest cost 101 58 Gain resulting from changes in additional liability due to minimum funding requirements excluding amounts recognised in net interest cost Total actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income 2 2 There were no adjustments 2016: 1m debit recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in relation to actuarial losses in the year on the United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme.
Movements in the present value of the WHSmith Pension Trust defined benefit scheme assets, obligations and minimum funding requirement in the current year were as follows: 2017 2016 Effect of asset Effect of asset ceiling and Net retirement ceiling and Net retirement recognition of benefit recognition of benefit minimum obligation minimum obligation m Assets Liabilities funding liability recognised Assets Liabilities funding liability recognised At 1 September 1,424 1,260 169 5 1,162 948 219 5 Current service cost Interest income expense 28 25 3 42 35 8 1 Past service credit 12 12 1 1 Actuarial gains losses 51 150 101 2 255 315 58 2 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 3 3 3 3 Benefits paid 52 52 37 37 At 31 August 1,340 1,071 273 4 1,424 1,260 169 5 The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of 23m 2016: gain of 297m due to a decrease in the value of the bonds held to match the pension scheme liabilities.
The reduction in the value of the scheme liabilities as a result of decreases in the value of bonds, as well as reduced longevity expectations, were greater than then the reduction in scheme assets, resulting in an increase in the IAS 19 surplus of 105m.
80 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED An analysis of the defined benefit scheme assets at the balance sheet date is detailed below: 2017 2016 Quoted Unquoted Total Quoted Unquoted Total m m m % m m m % Bonds Government bonds 721 721 54 417 417 29 Corporate bonds UK 164 164 12 40 40 3 Non-UK 135 135 10 269 269 19 1 Investment funds 16 16 1 317 317 22 Derivatives Interest rate swaps 345 345 26 296 296 21 Inflation swaps 256 256 19 111 111 8 Other 272 272 20 10 10 1 Cash and cash equivalents 665 665 50 206 206 15 Total 1,685 345 1,340 100 1,249 175 1,424 100 1 These actively managed pooled funds seek to provide long-term positive returns through diversified assets and strategies.
No amount is included in the market value of assets relating to either financial instruments or property occupied by the Group.
The principal long-term assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation were: % 2017 2016 Rate of increase in pension payments 3.26 2.91 Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.25 1.85 Discount rate 2.50 2.00 RPI inflation assumption 3.35 2.95 CPI inflation assumption 2.25 1.85 The mortality assumptions in years underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for 2017 and 2016 are: 2017 2016 Years Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 23.2 24.6 23.0 24.6 Member currently aged 45 24.2 26.1 24.3 26.5 Sensitivity to changes in assumptions Sensitivity information has been derived using scenario analysis from the actuarial assumptions as at 31 August 2017, while keeping all other assumptions consistent: in practice changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
Effect on liabilities m at 31 August 2017 Discount rate - 0.1% per annum -20 21 Inflation assumptions - 0.1% per annum 19 -19 Life expectancy - 1 year 47 -47 ii United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme UNSRBS is closed to new entrants.
The scheme provides pension benefits for pensioners and deferred members based on salary at the date of closure, with increases based on inflation.
The latest full actuarial valuation of the scheme was carried out at 5 April 2015 by independent actuaries.
Following this valuation, the deficit was 1m.
The valuation of the UNSRBS used for the IAS 19 disclosures is based on consistent assumptions to those used for valuing the WHSmith Pension Trust.
Scheme assets are stated at their market value at the relevant reporting date.
The deficit funding contributions are immaterial in the context of these financial statements.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 81 4.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED The present value of obligations and fair value of assets are consistent with their acquisition valuations and are stated below.
m 2017 2016 Present value of the obligations 8 8 Fair value of plan assets 6 6 Retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet 2 2 There were no adjustments 2016: 1m debit recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in relation to actuarial losses in the year on the United News Shops Retirement Benefits Scheme.
b Defined contribution pension scheme The pension cost charged to income for the Groups defined contribution schemes amounted to 4m for the year ended 31 August 2017 2016: 3m.
STAFF COSTS AND EMPLOYEES a Staff costs The aggregate remuneration of employees was: m 2017 2016 Wages and salaries 189 179 Social security costs 13 12 Other pension costs 4 3 Share-based payments 6 8 Total Group 212 202 b Employee numbers The monthly average total number of employees including executive directors was: 2017 2016 Total retailing 13,743 13,741 Support functions 30 28 Total Group 13,773 13,769 6.
OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Amounts recognised in operating profit: m 2017 2016 Minimum lease payments 182 181 Contingent rent payments 20 15 Total rent paid 202 196 Sublease rentals received on operating leases 1 3 Net operating lease charges 201 193 Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable as follows: 2017 2016 Land and Equipment and Land and Equipment and m buildings vehicles Total buildings vehicles Total Within one year 182 182 158 1 159 Within two to five years 465 1 466 425 2 427 In more than five years 191 2 193 183 183 838 3 841 766 3 769 The Group leases various properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Contingent rents are payable on certain store leases based on store revenue.
For those leases that are turnover-related leases, the annual net lease commitment is calculated using the minimum lease liability.
The total future external sublease receipts are 2m 2016: 5m.
The average remaining lease length across the Group is five years with both Travel at four years and HighStreet at five years.
Potential liabilities not included above that could crystallise under previous assignments of leases where the liability would revert to the Group if the lessee defaulted are discussed in Note 21.
82 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
FIXED CHARGES COVER m 2017 2016 Net finance charges Note 8 2 2 Net operating lease rentals Note 6 201 193 Total fixed charges 203 195 Profit before tax 140 131 Profit before tax and fixed charges 343 326 Fixed charges cover times 1.7x 1.7x An explanation of Alternative Performance Measures, including Fixed charges cover is provided in the Glossary on page 105.
FINANCE COSTS m 2017 2016 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2 1 Net interest cost on defined benefit pension liabilities 1 2 2 9.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE m 2017 2016 Tax on profit 29 30 Standard rate of UK corporation tax 19.58% 2016: 20.00% Adjustment in respect of prior year UK corporation tax 5 7 Total current tax charge 24 23 Deferred tax current year Note 19 1 2 Deferred tax prior year Note 19 1 2 Tax on profit 24 23 Effective tax rate 17% 17% Reconciliation of the taxation charge m 2017 2016 Tax on profit at standard rate of UK corporation tax 19.58% 2016: 20.00% 27 26 Tax effect of items that are not deductible or not taxable in determining taxable profit 2 2 Adjustment in respect of prior years 5 5 Total income tax expense 24 23 The UK corporation tax rate has been 19 per cent with effect from 1 April 2017.
The UK corporation tax rate will reduce to 17 per cent from 1st April 2020.
The effects of these changes are included in these financial statements.
The Group provides against known tax exposures, on a reasonable basis, until we have received formal agreement from the relevant tax authority that an inquiry into a particular tax return has been closed.
In the prior year we made a 13m repayment to HMRC of a previous payment on account in respect of a historical commercial structure put in place in the year ended 31 August 2009.
During the year ended 31 August 2017 we also made a 2m payment of interest on the above amount.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 83 10.
DIVIDENDS Amounts paid and recognised as distributions to shareholders in the year are as follows: m 2017 2016 Dividends Interim dividend of 14.6p per ordinary share 2016: 13.4p per ordinary share 16 15 Final dividend of 30.5p per ordinary share 2016: 27.3p per ordinary share 34 31 50 46 The proposed dividend of 33.6p per share, amounting to a final dividend of 37m, is not included as a liability in these financial statements and, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 1 February 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 January 2018.
The final dividend will be paid gross.
EARNINGS PER SHARE a Earnings m 2017 2016 Earnings attributable to shareholders 116 108 b Weighted average share capital Millions 2017 2016 Weighted average ordinary shares in issue 112 114 Less weighted average ordinary shares held in ESOP Trust 1 1 Weighted average shares in issue for earnings per share 111 113 Add weighted average number of ordinary shares under option 1 2 Weighted average ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 112 115 c Basic and diluted earnings per share Pence 2017 2016 Basic earnings per share 104.5 95.6 Diluted earnings per share 103.6 93.9 Diluted earnings per share takes into account various share awards and share options including SAYE schemes, which are expected to vest, and for which a sum below fair value will be paid.
84 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 12.
GOODWILL m Cost At 1 September 2016 38 Foreign exchange differences At 31 August 2017 38 Accumulated impairment At 1 September 2016 Impairment charge At 31 August 2017 Net book value at 31 August 2017 38 Cost At 1 September 2015 36 Foreign exchange differences 2 At 31 August 2016 38 Accumulated impairment At 1 September 2015 Impairment charge At 31 August 2016 Net book value at 31 August 2016 38 The carrying value of goodwill is allocated to the segmental businesses as follows: m 2017 2016 Travel 27 27 High Street 11 11 38 38 Goodwill has been tested for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of each cash-generating unit CGU, including goodwill, with the recoverable amount determined from value-in-use calculations.
Management has determined that no impairment was necessary for the current financial year 2016: nil.
All goodwill relates to the acquisitions of groups of retail stores which are considered to be CGUs and each CGU is sensitive to movements in the same key assumptions.
The key assumptions on which forecast three-year cash flows of the CGUs are based include sales growth, product mix and operating costs.
The values assigned to each of these assumptions were determined based on the extrapolation of historical trends within the Group, and external information on expected future trends in the UK retail industry.
These cash flows are extrapolated for up to an additional nine years representing the average length of the lease for the relevant group of stores based on estimated long-term growth rates of between 0 and 2.5 per cent.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash flows was ten per cent pre-tax 2016: ten per cent.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed in assessing recoverable amounts of goodwill.
This has been based on changes in key assumptions considered to be possible by management.
This included an increase in the discount rate of up to one per cent and a decrease in the long-term growth rate of up to one per cent.
The sensitivity analysis showed that no impairment would arise under each scenario.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 85 13.
OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Other intangible assets comprise capitalised software costs that are not deemed to be an integral part of the related hardware whichisclassified within property, plant and equipment and certain tenancy rights.
The amortisation period for capitalised software costs is over a maximum period of five years.
Other intangible assets are either considered to have an indefinite life, therefore no amortisation has been charged, or are amortised over their useful economic life.
These assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
m Cost At 1 September 2016 92 Additions 10 At 31 August 2017 102 Accumulated amortisation At 1 September 2016 67 Amortisation charge 6 Impairment charge At 31 August 2017 73 Net book value at 31 August 2017 29 Cost At 1 September 2015 84 Additions 8 At 31 August 2016 92 Accumulated amortisation At 1 September 2015 61 Amortisation charge 6 Impairment charge At 31 August 2016 67 Net book value at 31 August 2016 25 Included in the net book value of other intangible assets are software costs of 23m 2016: 18m, tenancy agreements of 5m 2016: 6m and brands and franchise contracts of 1m 2016: 1m.
Included in other intangible assets are certain assets considered to have an indefinite life, 4m 2016: 4m, representing certain rights under tenancy agreements, which include the right to renew leases.
Management has determined that the useful economic life of these assets is indefinite because the Company can continue to occupy and trade from certain premises for an indefinite period.
The net book value of software assets held under finance leases included within these balances as at 31 August 2017 was 1m 2016: 1m.
86 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and buildings Freehold Short-term Fixtures Equipment m properties leasehold and fittings and vehicles Total Cost or valuation: At 1 September 2016 22 182 126 117 447 Additions 17 13 10 40 Disposals 11 10 29 50 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 2 At 31 August 2017 22 189 130 98 439 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 September 2016 13 120 85 71 289 Depreciation charge 1 13 9 12 35 Impairment charge 1 1 Disposals 11 10 29 50 Foreign exchange differences At 31 August 2017 14 122 85 54 275 Net book value at 31 August 2017 8 67 45 44 164 Cost or valuation: At 1 September 2015 22 170 121 113 426 Additions 16 11 9 36 Disposals 5 7 6 18 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 1 3 At 31 August 2016 22 182 126 117 447 Accumulated depreciation: At 1 September 2015 12 111 84 64 271 Depreciation charge 1 12 7 12 32 Impairment charge 1 1 1 3 Disposals 5 7 6 18 Foreign exchange differences 1 1 At 31 August 2016 13 120 85 71 289 Net book value at 31 August 2016 9 62 41 46 158 The net book value of assets held under finance leases included within these balances as at 31 August 2017 was 12m 2016: 13m, being 2m short-term leasehold 2016: 2m, 1m fixtures and fittings 2016: 1m, and 9m equipment and vehicles 2016: 10m.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES m 2017 2016 Current debtors Trade debtors 28 26 Other debtors 3 4 Prepayments and accrued income 23 20 54 50 Non-current debtors Prepayments and accrued income 6 4 Total trade and other receivables 60 54 Included in trade receivables is 8m 2016: 5m of supplier income that has been invoiced but not yet settled where the Group does not have the right to offset against trade payables balances.
Included in prepayments and accrued income is 8m 2016: 7m of accrued supplier income relating to retrospective discounts and other promotional and marketing income, that has been earned but not yet invoiced.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 87 15.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES CONTINUED The ageing of the Groups current trade and other receivables is as follows: m 2017 2016 Trade and other receivables gross 34 32 Allowance for doubtful debts 1 1 Trade and other receivables net 33 31 Of which: Amounts neither impaired nor past due on the reporting date 25 24 Amounts past due but not impaired: Less than one month old 5 3 Between one and three months old 1 3 Between three and six months old 1 1 Between six months and one year old 1 Trade and other receivables net carrying amount 33 31 An allowance has been made for estimated irrecoverable amounts from sales at 31 August 2017 of 1m 31 August 2016: 1m.
The ageing analysis of these receivables is given in the table below.
This allowance reflects the application of the Groups provisioning policy in respect of bad and doubtful debts and is based upon the difference between the receivable value and the estimated net collectible amount.
The Group establishes its provision for bad and doubtful debts by reference to past default experience.
Ageing analysis of bad and doubtful debt provisions: m 2017 2016 Less than one month old Between one and three months old Between three and six months old Between six months and one year old 1 1 1 1 No trade and other receivables that would have been past due or impaired were renegotiated during the year.
No interest is charged on the receivables balance.
The other classes within trade and other receivables do not include impaired assets.
The Group does not hold collateral over these balances.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES CURRENT m 2017 2016 Trade payables 100 98 Other tax and social security 24 22 Other creditors 64 64 Accruals and deferred income 44 45 232 229 Trade and other payables principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 61 days 2016: 59 days.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates to their fair value.
Trade payables is stated net of 15m 2016: 13m amounts receivable from suppliers in relation to supplier income, that has been invoiced, for which the Group has the right to set off against amounts payable at the balance sheet date.
88 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 17.
OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES 2017 2016 Present value Present value of Minimum lease of minimum Minimum lease minimum lease m payments lease payments payments payments Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 4 4 3 3 Within two to five years 9 8 11 10 After five years Total 13 12 14 13 Less: future finance charges 1 1 Present value of lease obligations 12 12 13 13 Less: Amount due for settlement within 12 months shown under current liabilities 4 3 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 8 10 The Group leases certain fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The average lease term is five years.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates to their carrying amount.
PROVISIONS Property m provision Total At 1 September 2016 6 6 Charge in the year Utilised in year 1 1 Unwinding of discount At 31 August 2017 5 5 Property m provision Total At 1 September 2015 4 4 Charge in the year 2 2 Utilised in year Unwinding of discount At 31 August 2016 6 6 Total provisions are split between current and non-current liabilities as follows: m 2017 2016 Included in current liabilities 1 1 Included in non-current liabilities 4 5 5 6 The property provision relates to the estimated future unavoidable lease costs in respect of non-trading properties, stores earmarked for closure and loss-making stores.
The costs include provision for required dilapidation costs and any anticipated future rental shortfalls, and the provision is expected to be utilised over the length of each lease.
This provision has been discounted at two per cent, and this discount will be unwound over the life of the leases.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 89 19.
DEFERRED TAX The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior years.
Retirement Short-term Accelerated tax Lease Share-based benefit timing m depreciation incentives payments obligations differences Total At 1 September 2016 2 5 1 1 9 Credited charged to income 1 1 Charged to equity 1 1 At 31 August 2017 3 4 1 8 At 1 September 2015 2 1 5 1 1 10 Credited charged to income 1 1 Charged to equity 1 1 At 31 August 2016 2 5 1 1 9 Changes to UK corporation tax rates reduced the tax rate to 19 per cent from 1 April 2017 and will reduce the tax rate to 17 per cent from 1st April 2020.
Other deductible temporary differences of 95m 2016: 98m in respect of capital losses carried forward have not been recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
The following is an analysis of the deferred tax balances for financial reporting purposes.
m 2017 2016 Deferred tax liabilities non-current liabilities Deferred tax assets 8 9 8 9 20.
ANALYSIS OF NET FUNDS Movements in net funds can be analysed as follows: Currency m 2016 Cash flow Non cash translation 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 38 38 Borrowings - Revolving credit facility 18 4 22 - Obligations under finance leases 13 4 3 12 Net funds 7 3 4 Currency m 2015 Cash flow Non cash translation 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 34 2 2 38 Borrowings Revolving credit facility 9 9 18 Obligations under finance leases 10 3 6 13 Net funds 15 4 6 2 7 An explanation of Alternative Performance Measures, including Net funds is provided in the Glossary on page 105.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.
The Group has in place a five-year committed multi-currency revolving credit facility of 140m with Barclays Bank PLC, HSBC Bank PLC, BNP Paribas and Abbey National Treasury Services PLC.
The revolving credit facility is due to mature on 9 December 2021.
The utilisation is interest-bearing at LIBOR plus 85 basis points.
As at 31 August 2017, the Group has drawn down 22m 2016: 18m on this facility.
90 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL COMMITMENTS m 2017 2016 Bank guarantees and guarantees in respect of lease agreements 16 6 Other potential liabilities that could crystallise are in respect of previous assignments of leases where the liability could revert to the Group if the lessee defaulted.
Pursuant to the terms of the Demerger Agreement with Connect Group PLC formerly Smiths News PLC, any such contingent liability which becomes an actual liability, will be apportioned between the Group and Connect Group PLC in the ratio 65:35 provided that the actual liability of Connect Group PLC in any 12-month period does not exceed 5m.
The Groups 65 per cent share of these leases has an estimated future rental commitment at 31 August 2017 of 3m 2016: 3m.
The movement in the future rental commitment is due to the crystallisation of lease liabilities, lease expiries and the effluxion of time.
Contracts placed for future capital expenditure approved by the directors but not provided for in this combined financial information amount to 8m 2016: 8m.
m 2017 2016 Commitments in respect of property, plant and equipment 7 6 Commitments in respect of other intangible assets 1 2 8 8 22.
CASH GENERATED FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES m 2017 2016 Group operating profit 142 133 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 35 32 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 1 3 Amortisation of intangible assets 6 6 Share-based payments 5 8 Increase in inventories 4 5 Increase in receivables 5 Decrease in payables 5 Pension funding 3 3 Income taxes paid 27 36 Movement on provisions 1 2 Cash generated from operating activities 149 135 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Categories of financial instruments Carrying value m 2017 2016 Financial assets 1 Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships 2 2 Loans and receivables including cash and cash equivalents 85 80 Financial liabilities 3 Amortised cost 278 273 1 All derivatives are categorised as Level 2 under the requirements of IFRS 13.
The fair value measurements relating to the instruments are derived from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
2 Included within loans and receivables are trade and other receivables excluding prepayments and cash and cash equivalents.
3 Included within amortised cost are trade and other payables, borrowings, finance lease obligations and other non-current liabilities.
Comparison of carrying values and fair values There were no material differences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
Risk management The Groups treasury function seeks to reduce exposures to interest rate, foreign exchange and other financial risks, and to ensure liquidity is available to meet the foreseeable needs of the Group and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
The Group does not engage in speculative trading in financial instruments and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
The Groups treasury policies and procedures are periodically reviewed and approved by the Groups Audit Committee and are subject to regular Group Internal Audit review.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 91 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Capital risk The Groups objectives with respect to managing capital defined as net debt funds plus equity are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, in order to optimise returns to shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, through an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding.
Refer to Note 20 for the value of the Groups net debt funds and refer to the Group statement of changes in equity for the value of the Groups equity.
In managing the Groups capital levels, the Board regularly monitors the level of debt in the business, the working capital requirements, forecast financing and investing cash flows.
Based on this analysis, the Board determines the appropriate return to investors while ensuring sufficient capital is retained in the business to meet its strategic objectives.
The Board has a progressive dividend policy and expects that, over time, dividends would be broadly covered twice by earnings calculated on a normalised tax basis.
As at 12 October 2017, the Group has in place a 140m committed multi-currency revolving credit facility, carrying certain financial covenants which have been met throughout the period.
The covenants, tested half-yearly, are based on fixed charges cover and net borrowings.
Liquidity risk The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk by reviewing the cash resources required to meet its business objectives through both short and long-term cash flow forecasts.
The Group has a five-year committed multi-currency revolving credit facility with a number offinancial institutions which is available to be drawn for general corporate purposes including working capital.
The Group has a policy of pooling cash flows in order to optimise the return on surplus cash and also to utilise cash within the Group to reduce the costs of external short-term funding.
The table below shows the maturity analysis of the undiscounted remaining contractual cash flows of the Groups financial liabilities: Due within Due between Due between Due over 2017 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 22 22 Trade and other payables 244 244 Finance leases 4 4 5 13 Total cash flows 270 4 5 279 Due within Due between Due between Due over 2016 m 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years 5 years Total Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank loans and overdrafts 18 18 Trade and other payables 242 242 Finance leases 3 3 8 14 Total cash flows 263 3 8 274 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty may default on their obligation to the Group in relation to lending, hedging, settlement and other financial activities.
The Groups principal financial assets are trade and other receivables and bank balances and cash.
The Group has credit risk attributable to its trade and other receivables including a number of sale or return contracts with suppliers.
The amounts included in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of cash flows.
The Group has low retail credit risk due to the transactions being principally of a high volume, low-value and short maturity.
The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with the exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.
The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is considered to be low, as the Board approved Group treasury policy limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
These limits are based on a short-term credit rating of P-1.
The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk.
The Group does not hold collateral over any of these financial assets.
Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on floating rate bank loans and overdrafts.
At 31 August 2017, the Group had drawn down 22m 2016: 18m from its committed revolving credit facility.
The Group draws down on its facility, but does not view any draw down as long-term in nature and therefore does not enter into interest rate derivatives to mitigate this risk.
92 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Foreign currency risk Foreign exchange rate risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of the changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups foreign currency exposures are principally to the US dollar, euro and Australian dollar.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant future transactions and cash flows denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling.
The hedging instruments have been used to hedge purchases in US dollars and to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the USD GBP exchange rates.
These are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 31 August 2017 the Group had no material un-hedged currency exposures.
The Groups euro and Australian dollar exposure is principally operational and arises mainly through the operation of retail stores in France, Ireland, Spain, Germany, Italy and Australia.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge balance sheet and profit and loss translation exposure.
Forward foreign exchange contracts have been used to hedge France and Ireland retail stores purchases in GBP to minimise foreign exchange risk in movements of the GBP EUR exchange rates.
The fair value of cash flow hedges recognised on the balance sheet within derivative assets liabilities is shown below: m 2017 2016 Fair value of derivative assets 2 At 31 August 2017, the total notional amount of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts to which the Group has committed is US$40m 2016: US$30m and 6m 2016: 4m.
These instruments will be used to hedge cash flows occurring within up to two years of the balance sheet date.
Gains of 2m 2016: nil have been transferred to the income statement and gains of 1m 2016: 1m have been transferred to inventories in respect of contracts that matured during the year ended 31 August 2017.
In the year to 31 August 2017 the fair value gain on the Groups currency derivatives that are designated and effective as cash flow hedges amounted to nil 2016: 2m.
All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Sensitivity analysis as at 31 August 2017 Financial instruments affected by market risks include borrowings, deposits and derivative financial instruments.
The following analysis, required by IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, is intended to illustrate the sensitivity to changes in market variables, being UK interest rates, and USD GBP, EUR GBP and AUD GBP exchange rates.
The following assumptions were made in calculating the sensitivity analysis: Exchange rate fluctuations on currency derivatives that form part of an effective cash flow hedge relationship affect the hedging reserve in equity and the fair value of the hedging derivatives.
Group debt and hedging activities remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 August 2017 and 31 August 2016 respectively.
As aconsequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
The above assumptions are made when illustrating the effect on the Groups income statement and equity given reasonable movements in foreign exchange and interest rates before the effect of tax.
The Group considers a reasonable interest rate movement in GBP LIBOR base rate to be one per cent, based on interest rate history.
Similarly, sensitivity to movements in USD GBP, EUR GBP and AUD GBP exchange rates of ten per cent are shown, reflecting changes of reasonable proportion in the context of movement in those currency pairs over time.
Using these assumptions, the following table shows the illustrative effect on the Group income statement and equity.
2017 2016 Income Equity Income Equity m gains loss gains loss gains loss gains loss GBP LIBOR base rate interest rates 1% increase USD GBP exchange rates 10% increase 2 2 EUR GBP exchange rates 10% increase 1 1 AUD GBP exchange rates 10% increase GBP LIBOR Base rate interest rates 1% decrease USD GBP exchange rates 10% decrease 4 3 EUR GBP exchange rates 10% decrease AUD GBP exchange rates 10% decrease 1 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 93 24.
CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL Allotted and fully paid 2017 2016 Number Nominal Number Nominal of shares value of shares value m millions m millions m Equity: 6 Ordinary shares of 22 67p 111 24 113 25 Total 111 24 113 25 During the year the Company repurchased 2,501,949 of its own shares in the open market for an aggregate consideration of 41m.
In total 2,461,949 shares were cancelled during the year and 40,000 shares were purchased prior to 31 August 2017 but the settlement of 1m took place after 31 August 2017.
During the year 41,005 ordinary shares were allotted under the terms of the Companys Sharesave Scheme.
The effect of this allotment was to increase share premium by nil 2016: 1m.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at the meetings of the Company.
The ESOP reserve of 9m 2016: 10m represents the cost of shares in WH Smith PLC purchased in the market and held by the WHSmith Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards and options under the Groups executive share schemes.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Summary of movements in awards and options Executive Share Sharesave Option Cash-settled Number of shares Schemes Schemes 2012 CIP LTIPs PSP awards Total Outstanding at 1 September 2016 262,691 52,744 1,077,400 837,938 359,775 97,497 2,688,045 Options and awards granted 217,311 431,865 227,141 33,526 909,843 Options and awards exercised 41,005 38,058 385,933 269,292 130,352 88,264 952,904 Options and awards lapsed 23,067 28,496 4,394 61,272 117,229 Outstanding at 31 August 2017 415,930 14,686 662,971 996,117 395,292 42,759 2,527,755 Exercisable at 31 August 2017 14,686 4,199 4,088 17,341 40,314 Outstanding at 1 September 2015 445,606 73,447 1,218,467 941,441 442,154 112,083 3,233,198 Options and awards granted 299,573 237,945 95,388 18,466 651,372 Options and awards exercised 162,917 20,703 433,344 340,972 159,494 33,052 1,150,482 Options and awards lapsed 19,998 7,296 476 18,273 46,043 Outstanding at 31 August 2016 262,691 52,744 1,077,400 837,938 359,775 97,497 2,688,045 Exercisable at 31 August 2016 40,610 52,744 9,022 11,471 16,492 130,339 Pence 2017 2016 Weighted average exercise price of awards: Outstanding at the beginning of the year 111.76 130.92 Granted in the year 342.60 nil Exercised in the year 41.13 89.26 Lapsed in the year 224.25 438.70 Outstanding at the end of the year 216.26 111.76 Exercisable at the end of the year 187.47 350.19 Detail of movements in options and awards 2012 Co-Investment Plan CIP Under the terms of the 2012 Co-Investment Plan, executive directors and key senior executives have invested their own money to buy ordinary shares in WH Smith PLC and have been granted matching awards in the form of nil cost options in WH Smith PLC to acquire further ordinary shares in proportion to the amount they have invested.
These awards will only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the related performance target is met.
94 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Outstanding awards granted under the CIP are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2017 2016 pence Exercise period 5 November 2012 9,022 Nil Nov 2015 Nov 2022 17 October 2013 4,199 381,110 Nil Oct 2016 Oct 2023 23 October 2014 349,272 361,780 Nil Oct 2017 Oct 2024 6 November 2014 31,395 31,395 Nil Nov 2017 Nov 2024 22 October 2015 278,105 289,532 Nil Oct 2018 Oct 2025 19 November 2015 4,561 Nil Nov 2018 Nov 2025 662,971 1,077,400 LTIPs Under the terms of the LTIP, executive directors and key senior executives may be granted conditional awards to acquire ordinary shares in the Company in the form of nil cost options which will only vest and become exercisable to the extent that the related performance targets are met.
Awards made on or after October 2016 are subject to holding periods preventing the delivery and sale of shares until the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
For Awards made in October 2016 and October 2017 the holding period will apply to 50 per cent of any shares which vest.
The Awards will accrue dividends paid over the performance and any holding period.
Sharesave Scheme Under the terms of the Sharesave Scheme, the Board grants options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company to employees with at least six months service who enter into an HM Revenue & Customs approved Save-As-You-Earn SAYE savings contract for a term of three or five years.
Options are granted at up to a 20 per cent discount to the market price of the shares on the date ofoffer and are normally exercisable for a period of six months after completion of the SAYE contract.
Outstanding options granted under the Sharesave Scheme at 31 August 2017 are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2017 2016 pence Exercise period 5 June 2013 3 year 40,610 580.80 01.08.16 31.01.17 3 June 2015 3 year 200,285 222,081 1147.20 01.08.18 31.01.19 7 June 2017 3 year 215,645 1434.40 01.08.20 31.01.21 415,930 262,691 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 95 25.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Performance Share Plan PSP Under the terms of the Performance Share Plan, the Board may grant conditional awards to executives.
The exercise of awards is conditional on the achievement of a performance target, which is determined by the Board at the time of grant.
The executive directors donot participate in this Plan.
The exercise of options is conditional on the achievement of a performance target, which is determined by the Board at the time of grant.
Outstanding options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes as at 31 August 2017 are as follows: Number of shares Exercise price Date of grant 2017 2016 pence Exercise period 17 October 2007 38,058 381.00 17.10.10 16.10.17 5 November 2009 3,584 3,584 497.37 05.11.12 04.11.19 15 November 2011 11,102 11,102 520.17 15.11.14 14.11.21 14,686 52,744 Cash-settled schemes Under the terms of the LTIP, PSP and CIP, the Board may grant cash-settled awards to executives.
These awards will be settled in cash based on the share price at the date of exercise.
As at 31 August 2017 there were 42,759 outstanding nil-cost cashsettled awards 2016: 97,497, which will be settled between 31 August 2017 and October 2026.
The carrying amount of liabilities arising from share-based payment transactions is less than 1m 2016: 1m.
Fair value information 2017 2016 Weighted average share price at date of exercise of share options exercised during year pence 1,576.41 1,659.41 Weighted average remaining contractual life at end of year years 6 5 96 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Share options and awards granted The aggregate of the estimated fair value of the options and awards granted in the year is: m 2017 2016 10 10 The fair values of the CIP, LTIP and PSP awards granted were measured using a Monte Carlo simulation model.
The input range into the Monte Carlo models was as follows: 2017 2016 Share price pence 1,577 1,664 Exercise price pence Nil Nil Expected volatility per cent 23 22 Expected life years 3.0 3.0 Risk free rate per cent 0.27 0.73 Dividend yield per cent 2.80 2.37 Weighted average fair value of options pence 1,313.48 1,460.95 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected life of the option.
The fair values of the Sharesave options granted in the year ended 31 August 2017 were measured using a Black Scholes model.
None were granted in the year ended 31 August 2016.
The input range into the Black Scholes models was as follows: 2017 Share price pence 1,762 Exercise price pence 1,434 Expected volatility per cent 22 Expected life years 3.5 Risk free rate per cent 0.19 Dividend yield per cent 2.49 Weighted average fair value of options pence 354.00 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price over the expected life of the option.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Transactions between businesses within this Group which are related parties have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the executive and non-executive directors, who are the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures.
Further information about the remuneration of individual directors is provided in the Directors remuneration report.
000 2017 2016 Short-term employee benefits 2,694 2,695 Post-employment benefits 225 226 Share-based payments 1,686 2,282 4,605 5,203 There are no other transactions with directors.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 12 October 2017, the Company announced its intention to return up to 50m of cash to shareholders through a rolling share buyback programme.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 97 28.
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES The subsidiary companies included within the financial statements, are disclosed below.
Country of incorporation Registered Percentage Percentage Name registration address Class of shares owned % controlled % Principal activity Held directly by WH Smith PLC: WH Smith Retail Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company Held indirectly: Books & Stationers Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing Card Market Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing funkypigeon.
com Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing Lexicon Book Company Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Property Modelzone Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant Sussex Stationers Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant The Websters Group Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Qatar Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith 1955 Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Asia Limited Hong Kong 2 Ordinary 100 100 Product sourcing for WHSmith Group companies WH Smith Australia Pty Limited Australia 3 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Austria GmbH Austria 4 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith France S. A.
S France 5 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Germany GmbH Germany 6 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Group Holdings USA Inc. USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith High Street Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith High Street Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Retailing Preference WH Smith Hospitals Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Holding Company Preference WH Smith Hospitals Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Ireland Limited Ireland 8 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Italia S. R. L Italy 9 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Jersey Limited Jersey 10 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith LLC Qatar 11 Ordinary 49 100 Retailing WH Smith LLC Oman 12 Ordinary 50 50 Retailing WH Smith Malaysia SDN BHD Malaysia 13 Ordinary 50 50 Retailing WH Smith Music Inc. USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Nederland B. V. Netherlands 14 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith Nevada Enterprises LLC USA 7 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith New Zealand Limited New Zealand 15 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant WH Smith PLC England & Wales 1 Ordinary N A N A Parent WH Smith Promotions Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Retirement Savings Plan England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Dormant Limited WH Smith Singapore Pte.
Limited Singapore 16 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Spain S. L. Spain 17 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing WH Smith Travel 2008 Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Travel Holdings Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary 100 100 Holding Company WH Smith Travel Limited England & Wales 1 Ordinary & 100 100 Retailing Preference Wild Retail Group Pty Limited Australia 18 Ordinary 100 100 Retailing 98 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Notes to the financial statements continued REGISTERED ADDRESSES 1 Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX 2 Suites 13A01-04 13 Floor, South Tower, World Finance Centre, Harbour City, Tsim Sha Tsui, Kowloon, Hong Kong 3 Suite 3.06, AXIS Corporate Centre, 46-50 Kent Road, Mascot, NSW 2020, Australia 4 Brucknerstrasse 2 4, 1040 Vienna, Austria 5 248, Rue fide Rivoli, 75001 Paris, France 6 Terminal Ring 1, Zentralgebaude Ost, Zi.
035, 40474 Dusseldorf, Germany 7 c o Greenbridge Road, Swindon, Wiltshire SN3 3RX 8 6th Floor, Grand Canal Square, Dublin 2, Ireland 9 Via Borgogna, Cap 20122, Milano, Italy 10 72 74 King Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 4WE 11 27 Um Ghwalinah Road, 230 C-ring Road, Doha, Qatar 12 PO Box 3275, PC112, Ruwi, Oman 13 C2-6-1, Solaris Dutamas, 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 14 Weteringschans 94, 1017 XS, Amsterdam, Netherlands 15 C OMinter Ellison Rudd Watts, Lumley Centre, 88 Shortland Street, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand 16 9 Battery Road, #15-01 Straits Trading Building, Singapore 049910 17 Paseo fide Recoletos, 27, 7, 28004, Madrid, Spain 18 Suite 401, 80 William Street, Woolloomooloo NSW 2011, Australia Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 99 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC The scope of our audit REPORT ON THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and Opinion assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial In our opinion, WH Smith PLCs Company financial statements statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made the financial statements : subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and as at 31 August 2017: considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management have been properly prepared in accordance with United override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 material misstatement due to fraud.
Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law : and Key audit matters have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors the Companies Act 2006. professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of We have audited the financial statements, included within the the financial statements of the current year and include the most Annual Report and accounts 2017 the Annual Report, which significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether comprise: the Company balance sheet as at 31 August 2017 and or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of adescription of the significant accounting policies.
We determined that there were no key audit matters applicable to the Company to communicate in Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the our report.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed BASIS FOR OPINION enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial We conducted our audit in accordance with International statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the industry in which it operates.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we We scoped the balances to be audited in line with the materiality have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for determined for the year.
Materiality Independence The scope of our audit was influenced by our application We remained independent of the Group in accordance with of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating with these requirements.
the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that nonaudit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not Based on our professional judgement, we determined provided to the Group or the Company.
materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Other than those disclosed in the Directors Report, we have Overall materiality 4.3 million 2016: 4.3 million.
provided no non-audit services to the Group and its subsidiaries How we determined it 1% of total assets.
in the year from 1 September 2016 to 31 August 2017.
Rationale for As the parent entity, WH Smith PLC, is primarily a holding benchmarkapplied OUR AUDIT APPROACH Company for the Group, the Overview materiality benchmark has Materiality been determined to be based on Overall materiality: 4.3 million 2016: 4.3 million, based on total assets which is a generally 1 per cent of total assets.
Audit scope We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to We performed a full scope audit over the Company them misstatements identified during our audit above 214k ledger, providing us with 100 per cent coverage over the 2016: 216k as well as misstatements below that amount that, Company accounts.
in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Key audit matters We have no key audit matters to report.
100 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2017 Independent auditors report to the members ofWH Smith PLC continued Going concern Strategic Report and Directors Report In accordance with ISAs UK we report as follows: In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic Report and Reporting obligation Outcome Directors Report for the year ended 31 August 2017 is consistent We are required to report if we We have nothing material with the financial statements and has been prepared in have anything material to add to add or to draw attention accordance with applicable legal requirements.
CA06 or draw attention to in respect to.
However, because not all In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and of the directors statement future events or conditions its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we did not in the financial statements can be predicted, this identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and about whether the directors statement is not a guarantee Directors Report.
CA06 considered it appropriate to as to the Companys ability to adopt the going concern basis continue as a going concern.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the Company of accounting in preparing the and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or financial statements and the liquidity of the Company directors identification of any We have nothing material to add or draw attention to regarding: material uncertainties to the Companys ability to continue The directors confirmation on page 55 of the Annual Report as a going concern over a that they have carried out a robust assessment of the period of at least 12 months principal risks facing the Company, including those that would from the date of approval of the threaten its business model, future performance, solvency financial statements.
We are required to report if the We have nothing to report.
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks directors statement relating to and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
Going Concern in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is The directors explanation on page 24 of the Annual Report materially inconsistent with our as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, knowledge obtained in the audit.
over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be REPORTING ON OTHER INFORMATION able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall The other information comprises all of the information in the due over the period of their assessment, including any related Annual Report other than the financial statements and our disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications auditors report thereon.
The directors are responsible for or assumptions.
Our opinion on the financial statements We have nothing to report having performed a review of does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do the directors statement that they have carried out a robust not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.
statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Company.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the so, consider whether the other information is materially directors process supporting their statements: checking that inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : and considering misstated.
If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge and material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the the course of the audit.
Listing Rules financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.
Based on the responsibilities described above and our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006, CA06, ISAs UK and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA require us also to report certain opinions and matters as described below required by ISAs UK unless otherwise stated.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 101 Other Code Provisions A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to the financial statements is located on the FRCs website at: report when: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
The statement given by the directors, on page 35, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, Use of this report balanced and understandable, and provides the information This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and necessary for the members to assess the Companys position only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with and performance, business model and strategy is materially Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company obtained in purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the course of performing our audit.
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come The section of the Annual Report on pages 33 to 36 describing save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING The directors statement relating to the Companys Companies Act 2006 exception reporting compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you departure from a relevant provision of the Code specified, if, in our opinion: under the Listing Rules, for review by the auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Directors Remuneration require for our audit: or In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Companies Act 2006.
CA06 Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by AND THE AUDIT law are not made: or Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements the financial statements and the part of the Directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with Responsibilities set out on page 56, the directors are responsible the accounting records and returns.
for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The directors are also responsible for Appointment such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we the preparation of financial statements that are free from were appointed by the members on 21 January 2015 to audit material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
the financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2015 and In preparing the financial statements, the directors are subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted responsible for assessing the Companys ability to continue as a engagement is 3 years, covering the years ended 31 August 2015 going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going to 31 August 2017. concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease OTHER MATTER operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2017.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from John Ellis Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not London a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
12 October 2017 Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
