Other Information Glossary See also Alternative Performance Measures section on pages 111 to 113.
Affordable Housing Social rented and intermediate housing provided to specified eligible households whose needs are not met by the market, at a cost low enough for them to afford, determined with regard to local incomes and local house prices.
Average Selling Price Calculated by dividing the total price of homes sold by the number of homes sold.
Brownfield Land which has been previously used for other purposes.
Cancellation Rate The rate at which customers withdraw from a house purchase after paying the reservation fee, but before contracts are exchanged, usually due to difficulties in obtaining mortgage finance.
Reservation fees are refunded in accordance with the Consumer Code for Home Builders.
Community Infrastructure Levy CIL The CIL is a tool for local authorities in England and Wales to help deliver infrastructure to support the development of the area.
Earnings per Share EPS Profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares held by the Bellway Employee Trust 1992 which are treated as cancelled.
Home Builders Federation HBF The HBF is an industry body, representing the home building industry in England and Wales.
It represents member interests on a national and regional level to create the best possible environment in which to deliver new homes.
Help to Buy The Help to Buy equity loan scheme is a government scheme which provides equity loans to both first-time buyers and home movers on newly constructed homes worth up to 600,000 in England.
Buyers have to contribute at least 5% of the property price as a deposit and obtain a mortgage of up to 75% and the government provides a loan for up to 20% of the price.
The Help to Buy mortgage guarantee scheme helps people to buy a home worth up to 600,000 in the UK with a 5% deposit to obtain a 95% mortgage.
The government gives a guarantee to the lender of up to 15% of the value of the property.
Land Bank The land bank is comprised of three tiers: i owned or unconditionally contracted land with an implementable detailed planning permission DPP : ii medium-term pipeline land owned or controlled by the Group, pending an implementable DPP: iii strategic long-term plots which currently have a positive planning status and are typically held under option.
National Planning Policy Framework NPPF The NPPF sets out the governments planning policies for England and how these are expected to be applied.
It provides a framework within which local people and their accountable councils can produce their own distinctive local and neighbourhood plans, which reflect the needs and priorities of their communities.
National House Building Council NHBC The NHBC is the leading warranty insurance provider and body responsible for setting standards of construction for UK housebuilding for new and newly converted homes.
New Homes Bonus NHB The NHB was introduced in 2011 by the coalition government with the aim of encouraging local authorities in England to grant planning permissions for the building of new houses in return for additional revenue.
Under the scheme, the government has been matching the Council Tax raised on each new home built in England for a period of six years.
114 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 About Us Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information Pipeline Plots which are either owned or contracted by the Group, often conditionally, pending an implementable detailed planning permission.
Planning Permission Usually granted by the local planning authority, this permission allows a plot of land to be built on, change its use or, for an existing building, be redeveloped or altered.
Permission is either outline when detailed plans are still to be approved, or detailed when detailed plans have been approved.
RIDDOR RIDDOR refers to the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013.
The regulations require an employer to report any absence by an employee of seven days or more caused by an accident at work to the Health and Safety Executive.
Section 106 Planning Agreements These are legally-binding agreements or planning obligations entered into between a landowner and a local planning authority, under section 106 of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990.
These agreements are a way of delivering or addressing matters that are necessary to make a development acceptable in planning terms.
They are increasingly used to support the provision of services and infrastructure, such as highways, recreational facilities, education, health and affordable housing.
Site phase A site is a concise area of land on which homes are being constructed.
Larger sites may be divided into a number of phases which are developed at different times.
Social Housing Housing that is let at low rents and on a secure basis to people in housing need.
It is generally provided by councils and notfor-profit organisations such as housing associations.
115 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
