FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 ACCO U N T I N G P O L I C I E S Basis of preparation The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as adopted by the European Union, on a going concern basis and under the historical cost convention modified to include revaluation of certain financial instruments, share options and pension assets and liabilities, held at fair value as described below.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
Significant judgements, key assumptions and estimates The preparation of the accounts in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the accounts and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The key estimates and assumptions used in these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Revenue recognition The timing of revenue recognition on contracts depends on the assessed stage of completion of contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This assessment requires the expected total contract revenues and costs to be estimated based on the current progress of the contract.
Revenue of 24m 2016: 42m has been recognised in the period in respect of contracts in progress at the period end with a total expected value of 48m 2016: 175m and cumulative revenue recognised to date of 36m 2016: 137m.
A 5% reduction in the proportion of the contract activity recognised in the current period would have reduced operating profit by less than 1m for both Smiths Detection and Smiths Interconnect 2016: less than 1m.
Smiths Detection also has multi-year contractual arrangements for the sale of goods and services.
Where these contracts have separately identifiable components with distinct patterns of delivery and customer acceptance, revenue is accounted for separately for each identifiable component.
Judgement is applied in the identification of the components of the contract, and the allocation of contract revenue to each component.
Smiths Medical has rebate arrangements in place with some distributors in respect of sales to end customers where sales prices have been negotiated by Smiths Medical.
Rebates are estimated based on the level of discount derived from sales data from distributors, the amount of inventory held by distributors and the time lag between the initial sale to the distributor and the rebate being claimed.
Contract profitability Smiths Detection has multi-year contractual arrangements for the sale of goods and services.
Margins achieved on these contracts can reflect the impact of commercial decisions made in different economic circumstances.
In addition, contract delivery is subject to commercial and technical risks which can affect the outcome of the contract.
At 31 July 2017 there was nil 2016: 4m balance sheet liability in respect of ongoing onerous contracts and no other contracts had been assessed as at significant risk of becoming onerous.
Taxation The Group has recognised deferred tax assets of 129m 2016: 87m relating to losses and 112m 2016: 120m relating to the John Crane, Inc. and Titeflex Corporation litigation provisions.
The recognition of assets pertaining to these items involves judgement by management as to the likelihood of realisation of these deferred tax assets.
This is based on a number of factors, which seek to assess the expectation that the benefit of these assets will be realised, including expected future levels of operating profit, expenditure on litigation, pension contributions and the timing of the unwind of other tax positions.
It has been concluded that there are sufficient taxable profits in future periods to support recognition.
A 5% reduction in expected future operating profits would reduce the level of deferred tax recognised by 8m 2016: 9m, and a 5% increase in expected future operating profits would increase the level of deferred tax recognised by 11m 2016: 11m.
Further detail on the Groups deferred taxation position is included in note 6.
Retirement benefits The consolidated financial statements include costs in relation to, and provision for, retirement benefit obligations.
The costs and the present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend on such factors as life expectancy of the members, the returns that plan assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the liabilities.
The Group uses previous experience and independent actuarial advice to select the values of critical estimates.
The estimates, and the effect of variances in key estimates, are disclosed in note 8.
At 31 July 2017 there is a retirement benefit asset of 390m 2016: 328m, principally relating to UK schemes, which arises from the rights of the employers to recover the surplus at the end of the life of the scheme.
If the pension schemes were wound up while they still had members, the schemes would need to buy out the benefits of all members.
The buyouts would cost significantly more than the present value of the scheme liabilities calculated in accordance with IAS 19: Employee benefits.
Receivables provisions If the carrying value of any receivable is higher than the fair value, the Group makes provisions writing down the balance to its fair value.
The fair value of receivables is considered individually for each customer and incorporates past experience and progress with collecting receivables.
At 31 July 2017 the gross value of receivables partly provided for or more than three months overdue was 73m 2016: 83m and there were provisions of 33m 2016: 31m against these receivables.
Consequently, these receivables were carried at a net value of 40m 2016: 52m.
See note 14 for disclosures on credit risk and ageing of trade receivables.
141 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A C C O U NTI N G P O LI C I E S C O NTI N U E D Inventory provisions The calculation of inventory provisions requires judgement by management of the expected value of future sales.
If the carrying value of inventory is higher than the expected recoverable value, the Group makes provisions writing inventory down to its net recoverable value.
Inventory is initially assessed for impairment by comparing inventory levels to recent utilisation rates and carrying values to historical selling prices.
A detailed review is completed for inventory lines identified in the initial assessment considering sales activity, order flow, customer contracts and current selling prices.
At 31 July 2017, there were provisions of 55m 2016: 70m against gross inventory of 507m 2016: 548m.
See note 13 for a breakdown of inventory.
A 10% increase in the proportion of raw materials provided for would increase the provision by 17m 2016: 20m and a 10% increase in the proportion of finished goods provided for would increase the provision by 22m 2016: 23m.
Impairment Goodwill is tested at least annually for impairment and other assets, including intangible assets acquired in business combinations, are tested if there are any indications of impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy set out below.
The recoverable amounts of cash generating units and assets are determined based on value in use calculations unless future trading projections cannot be adjusted to eliminate the impact of a major restructuring.
The value in use calculations require the use of estimates including projected future cash-flows and other future events.
See note 11 for details of the critical assumptions made, including the forecast earnings and valuation multiples for Morpho Detection and disclosures on the sensitivity of the impairment testing to these key assumptions, including details of the changes in assumptions which would be required to trigger an impairment in Morpho Detection.
Provisions for liabilities and charges As previously reported, John Crane, Inc. JCI, a subsidiary of the Group, is currently one of many co-defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured which contained asbestos.
Provision of 237m 2016: 252m has been made for the future defence costs which the Group is expected to incur and the expected costs of future adverse judgments against JCI.
Whilst well-established incidence curves can be used to estimate the likely future pattern of asbestos related disease, JCIs claims experience is significantly impacted by other factors which influence the US litigation environment.
These can include: changing approaches on the part of the plaintiffs bar: changing attitudes amongst the judiciary at both trial and appellate levels: and legislative and procedural changes in both the state and federal court systems.
Therefore, because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of asbestos claims and of the costs arising out of the related litigation, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
JCI takes account of the advice of an expert in asbestos liability estimation in quantifying the expected costs.
The following judgements were made in preparing the provision calculation: the period over which the expenditure can be reliably estimated is judged to be ten years, based on past experience regarding significant changes in the litigation environment that have occurred every few years and on the amount of time taken in the past for some of those changes to impact the broader asbestos litigation environment.
See note 22 for a sensitivity showing the impact on the provision of reducing or increasing this time horizon: the future trend of legal costs: the rate of future claims filed: the rate of successful resolution of claims: and the average amount of judgments awarded have been projected based on the past history of JCI claims and well-established tables of asbestos incidence projections, since this is the best available evidence.
Claims history from other defendants is not used to calculate the provision because JCIs defence strategy generates a significantly different pattern of legal costs and settlement expenses.
See note 22 for a sensitivity showing the range of expected future spend.
As previously reported, Titeflex Corporation, a subsidiary of the Group in the Flex-Tek division, has received a number of claims from insurance companies seeking recompense on a subrogated basis for the effects of damage allegedly caused by lightning strikes in relation to its flexible gas piping product.
It has also received a number of product liability claims regarding this product, some in the form of purported class actions.
Titeflex Corporation believes that its products are a safe and effective means of delivering gas when installed in accordance with the manufacturers instructions and local and national codes: however some claims have been settled on an individual basis without admission of liability.
Provision of 84m 2016: 94m has been made for the costs which the Group is expected to incur in respect of these claims.
In preparing the provision calculation, judgements were made about the impact of safe installation initiatives on the level of future claims.
See note 22 for a sensitivity showing the impact on the provision of reducing or increasing the expected impact.
However, because of the significant uncertainty associated with the future level of claims, there can be no guarantee that the assumptions used to estimate the provision will result in an accurate prediction of the actual costs that may be incurred.
The Group has on occasion been required to take legal action to protect its intellectual property and other rights against infringement.
It has also had to defend itself against proceedings brought by other parties, including product liability and insurance subrogation claims.
Provision is made for any expected costs and liabilities in relation to these proceedings where appropriate, though there can be no guarantee that such provisions which may be subject to potentially material revision from time to time will accurately predict the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
All provisions may be subject to potentially material revisions from time to time if new information becomes available as a result of future events.
142 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Presentation of results Non-statutory performance measures, described as headline, are presented to give a clear and consistent presentation of the performance of the Groups ongoing trading activity.
These measures are used by management to measure and monitor performance.
Headline measures exclude amounts relating to costs of acquisitions and disposals, amortisation of acquisition fair value adjustments, including the recognition of acquired intangibles, impairments, legacy liabilities, significant restructuring, material one-off items and certain re-measurements.
Smiths Group plc presents its results in the income statements with items excluded from headline measures in a separate column.
See note 1 for divisional headline operating profit, note 3 for a breakdown of the items excluded from headline operating profit and headline finance costs and note 30 for information on the calculation of return on capital employed and credit metrics.
In addition, the Group reports underlying growth rates for sales and profit measures, which exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestments and the effects of foreign exchange translation, by making the following adjustments: Retranslate the comparative to current year exchange rates before calculating growth measures Exclude acquisitions from the current period for the first 12 months of ownership: and Exclude the divested businesses performance after the date of disposal from comparative period.
For the convenience of users, supplementary primary financial statements translated into US dollars have been presented after the Group financial record.
Assets and liabilities have been translated into US dollars at the exchange rate at the date of that balance sheet and income, expenses and cash-flows are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
Accounting policies Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts incorporate the financial statements of Smiths Group plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings, together with the Groups share of the results of its associates.
A list of the subsidiaries of Smiths Group plc is provided on pages 207 to 214.
Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the Company.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Company to the date that control ceases.
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence but does not control, generally accompanied by a share of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Foreign currencies The Companys presentational currency is sterling.
The financial position of all subsidiaries and associates that have a functional currency different from sterling are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange at the date of that balance sheet, and the income and expenses are translated at average exchange rates for the period.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to shareholders equity.
When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative amount of such exchange differences is recognised in the income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Exchange differences arising on transactions are recognised in the income statement.
Those arising on trading are taken to operating profit: those arising on borrowings are classified as finance income or cost.
Revenue Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, net of trade discounts including distributor rebates and sales taxes.
Revenue is discounted only where the impact of discounting is material.
When the Group enters into complex contracts with multiple, separately identifiable components, the terms of the contract are reviewed to determine whether or not the elements of the contract should be accounted for separately.
If a contract is being split into multiple components, the contract revenue is allocated to the different components at the start of the contract.
The basis of allocation depends on the substance of the contract.
The Group considers relative stand-alone selling prices, contractual prices and relative cost when allocating revenue.
Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and recovery of the consideration is probable.
For established products with simple installation requirements, revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the customer in accordance with the agreed delivery terms.
For products which are technically innovative, highly customised or require complex installation, revenue is recognised when the customer has completed its acceptance procedures.
Services Revenue from services is recognised in accounting periods in which the services are rendered, by reference to completion of the specific transaction, assessed on the basis of the actual service provided as a proportion of the total services to be provided.
Depending on the nature of the contract, revenue will be recognised on the basis of the proportion of the contract term completed, the proportion of the contract costs incurred or the specific services provided to date.
Construction contracts Contracts for the construction of substantial assets are accounted for as construction contracts if the customer specifies major structural elements of the design, including the ability to amend the design during the construction process.
These projects normally involve installing customised systems with site-specific integration requirements.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
The Group uses the percentage of completion method to determine the appropriate amount to recognise in a given period.
The assessment of the stage of completion is dependent on the nature of the contract, but will generally be based on the estimated proportion of the total contract costs which have been incurred to date.
If a contract is expected to be loss-making, a provision is recognised for the entire loss.
143 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A C C O U NTI N G P O LI C I E S C O NTI N U E D Leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Taxation The charge for taxation is based on profits for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of temporary differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to taxation authorities.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is likely that the tax positions are sustainable.
Once considered to be likely, tax benefits are reviewed to assess whether a provision should be made based on prevailing circumstances.
Tax provisions are included in current tax liabilities, including any anticipated interest & penalties.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income.
Deferred tax is provided in full using the balance sheet liability method.
A deferred tax asset is recognised where it is probable that future taxable income will be sufficient to utilise the available relief.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax liabilities and assets are not discounted.
Employee benefits Share-based compensation The fair value of the shares or share options granted is recognised as an expense over the vesting period to reflect the value of the employee services received.
The fair value of options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions, is calculated using established option pricing models, principally binomial models.
The probability of meeting non-market vesting conditions, which include profitability targets, is used to estimate the number of share options which are likely to vest.
For cash-settled share-based payment, a liability is recognised based on the fair value of the payment earned by the balance sheet date.
For equity-settled share-based payment, the corresponding credit is recognised directly in reserves.
Pension obligations and post-retirement benefits The Group has defined benefit plans, defined contribution plans and post-retirement healthcare schemes.
For defined benefit plans and post-retirement healthcare schemes the liability for each scheme recognised in the balance sheet is the present value of the obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of any plan assets.
The obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of AA-rated corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related liability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full in the period in which they occur, outside of the income statement, and are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
For defined contribution plans, the Group pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis.
Contributions are expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries after 1 August 1998 is included in intangible assets, tested annually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill arising from acquisitions of subsidiaries before 1 August 1998 was set against reserves in the year of acquisition.
Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Subsequent reversals of impairment losses for goodwill are not recognised.
Research and development Expenditure on research and development is charged to the income statement in the year in which it is incurred with the exception of: amounts recoverable from third parties: and expenditure incurred in respect of the development of major new products where the outcome of those projects is assessed as being reasonably certain as regards viability and technical feasibility.
Such expenditure is capitalised and amortised over the estimated period of sale for each product, commencing in the year that sales of the product are first made.
Amortisation is charged straight line or based on the units produced, depending on the nature of the product and the availability of reliable estimates of production volumes.
The cost of development projects which are expected to take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs.
144 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Intangible assets acquired in business combinations The identifiable net assets acquired as a result of a business combination may include intangible assets other than goodwill.
Any such intangible assets are amortised straight line over their expected useful lives as follows: Patents, licences and trademarks up to 20 years Technology up to 13 years Customer relationships up to 11 years The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Software, patents and intellectual property The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software up to 7 years Patents and intellectual property shorter of the economic life and the period the right is legally enforceable The assets useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation is provided on other assets estimated to write off the depreciable amount of relevant assets by equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives.
In general, the rates used are: Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2%: Short leasehold property over the period of the lease: Plant, machinery, etc.
10% to 20%: Fixtures, fittings, tools and other equipment 10% to 33%.
The cost of any assets which are expected to take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs.
The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out FIFO method.
The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises raw materials, direct labour, other direct costs and related production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
The cost of items of inventory which take a substantial period of time to complete includes attributable borrowing costs.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate provision for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms will not be collected.
Provisions Provisions for warranties and product liability, disposal indemnities, restructuring costs, vacant leasehold property and legal claims are recognised when: the Company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event: it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation: and the amount has been reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.
Provisions are discounted where the time value of money is material.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, for example where a warranty has been given, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole.
A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Assets and businesses held for sale Assets and businesses classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Impairment losses on initial classification as held for sale and gains or losses on subsequent remeasurements are included in the income statement.
No depreciation is charged on assets and businesses classified as held for sale.
Assets and businesses are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
The asset or business must be available for immediate sale and the sale must be highly probable within one year.
Discontinued operations A discontinued operation is either: a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale: or a business acquired solely for the purpose of selling it.
Discontinued operations are presented on the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
145 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 A C C O U NTI N G P O LI C I E S C O NTI N U E D Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand and highly liquid interest-bearing securities with maturities of three months or less.
In the cash-flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings in liabilities on the balance sheet.
Financial assets The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of an asset at initial recognition and re-evaluates the designation at each reporting date.
Financial assets are classified as: loans and receivables, available for sale financial assets or financial assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited to the income statement.
Financial assets are initially recognised at transaction price when the Group becomes party to contractual obligations.
The transaction price used includes transaction costs unless the asset is being fair valued through the income statement.
The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on their classification.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Available for sale financial assets are subsequently measured at fair value, with unrealised gains and losses being recognised in other comprehensive income.
Financial assets where changes in fair value are charged or credited to the income statement are subsequently measured at fair value.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through the income statement category are included in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash-flows from the assets has expired, or has been transferred, and the Company has transferred substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership.
When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments previously taken to reserves are included in the income statement.
Financial assets are classified as current if they are expected to be realised within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
Financial liabilities Borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the proceeds, net of related transaction costs.
These transaction costs, and any discount or premium on issue, are subsequently amortised under the effective interest rate method through the income statement as interest over the life of the loan, and added to the liability disclosed in the balance sheet.
Related accrued interest is included in the borrowings figure.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising any resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together with any changes in the fair values of the hedged assets or liabilities that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Net investment hedge Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash-flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income: the gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
When a foreign operation is disposed of, gains and losses accumulated in equity related to that operation are included in the income statement.
Cash-flow hedge The effective portions of changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash-flow hedges are recognised in equity.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in the hedge reserve are recycled in the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will affect profit or loss for instance when the forecast sale that is hedged takes place.
If a forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset for example, inventory or a liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in the hedge reserve are transferred from the reserve and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedge reserve at that time remains in the reserve and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred to the income statement.
146 FINANCIALS Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2017 Fair value of financial assets and liabilities The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are the amounts at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
IFRS 13: Fair value measurement requires fair value measurements to be classified according to the following hierarchy: level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: level 2 valuations in which all inputs are observable either directly ie as prices or indirectly ie derived from prices : and level 3 valuations in which one or more inputs that are significant to the resulting value are not based on observable market data.
See note 20 for information on the methods the Group uses to estimate the fair values of its financial instruments.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they are authorised.
The interim dividend is recognised when it is paid and the final dividend is recognised when it has been approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Recent accounting developments The following standards and interpretations have been issued by the IASB and will affect future annual reports and accounts.
IFRS 9: Financial instruments IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16: Leases A review of the impact of these standards and interpretations is being undertaken, and the impact of adopting them will be determined once this review has been completed.
Smiths will adopt IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 on 1 August 2018 and IFRS 16 on 1 August 2019 unless developments in the relationship between the UK and the EU change the reporting requirements for UK companies.
IFRS 9: Financial instruments Adopting IFRS 9 will impact hedge accounting and receivables provisioning.
The basis of documentation and effectiveness testing of hedges under the new standard will be linked more closely to the risk management objectives, which may generate different levels of ineffectiveness than the current testing under IAS 39.
Receivables provisioning will move from an incurred to an expected loss model.
The Groups largest exposure is trade receivables, which had a gross value of 716m at 31 July 2017.
No impact is anticipated for high credit quality balances settled on agreed terms.
However, the new model will impact the timing and value of provision recognition on higher risk balances.
Under the current methodology, provisions of 33m have been recognised on 73m of receivables which are more than three months overdue or considered to be high risk.
IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers The review of the impact of IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with customers requires an assessment at contract level to confirm the full impact of adopting this standard.
Based on the analysis completed to date, we consider that the new standard is unlikely to have a material impact on revenue recognition for the following business activities, which had revenue of circa 1.7bn this year: Smiths branded products sold under basic PO terms: Customer specific products where the Group is manufacturing at risk with no contractual rights to recovery: Smiths Interconnect military contracts accounted for on a percentage of completion basis using proportion of costs incurred: Smiths Detection programmes currently accounted for as multi-element contracts with consideration allocated on the relative fair value of the components: and Spares and ad hoc service callouts to repair or replace equipment.
The basis of revenue recognition may change for the following revenue streams: Customer specific products where the contractual terms include rights to payment for work performed to date.
Revenue for most of these contracts is expected to be recognised rateably over the manufacturing period, depending on the specific rights in the contract: Product development contracts where revenue is recognised on reaching development milestones.
Revenue for recognition for some of these contracts is expected to move to a percentage of completion basis using proportion of costs incurred: and John Crane has service contracts, which include bonuses and penalties based on the performance of the asset being maintained.
Depending on the evidence available to estimate the levels of performance achieved, bonuses may be recognised earlier under IFRS 15.
IFRS 16: Leases The review of this standard is at an early stage.
This standard will require a lease liability and corresponding asset to be recognised on the balance sheet for leases currently classified as operating leases and not recognised on the balance sheet.
IFRS 16 can require changes to the valuation of lease liabilities.
However, preliminary work has not identified any material leases with contingent rentals.
The total value of operating lease commitments at 31 July 2017 was 140m 2016: 146m.
Parent Company The ultimate parent company of the Group is Smiths Group plc, a company incorporated in England and Wales and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The accounts of the Parent Company, Smiths Group plc, have been prepared in accordance with UK GAAP, applying Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework.
The Company accounts are presented in separate financial statements on pages 196 to 206.
The principal subsidiaries of the Parent Company are listed in the above accounts.
