ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is The financial statements of the Company have been adjusted in future periods, to allocate the assets prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by revised carrying amount, less any residual value, the European Union, IFRSIC interpretations and over its remaining useful life.
the Companies Act 2006, applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have Onerous leases been prepared on the going-concern basis, using the A provision for onerous leases is made for pubs for historical cost convention, except for the revaluation which future trading profits, or income from subleases, of financial instruments.
are not expected to cover rent.
The provision takes several factors into account, including the expected The accounting policies which follow set out those future profitability of the pub and the amount estimated policies which apply in preparing the financial as payable on surrender of the lease, where this is a statements for the year ended 30 July 2017. likely outcome.
These policies have been consistently applied to all of the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Hedging The Company adopts hedge accounting, meaning that Important estimates and judgements the effective portion of the changes in the fair value of Estimates and judgements are based on historical the derivatives is dealt with in comprehensive income.
experience and other factors, including expectations of Any gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion would future events which are believed to be reasonable and be recognised immediately in the income statement.
constitute managements best judgement at the date of the financial statements.
Actual experience may differ The Company makes assumptions on the requirements from these estimates.
Complex areas on judgement for future borrowings, as well as future interest rates, or estimates involving sums which are significant when assessing the effectiveness of interest-rate to the accounts are disclosed below.
Changes in the forecast amount of future borrowings or interest rates may result in all or part of Impairment of property, plant and equipment the gain or loss, which was originally reported in equity, The Company determines whether a trading pub being transferred to the income statement.
should be impaired by comparing its net book value with future cash flows value in use, having made Exceptional items certain assumptions about sales, costs and profit and A degree of judgement is required in determining applying a pre-tax discount rate for future years of 8% whether certain transactions merit separate and its fair value less the costs of selling the assets, presentation to allow shareholders to better understand determined using external and internal estimates of the financial performance in the year, when compared with value of the Companys pubs.
that of previous years and trends.
Any impairment charge will be limited to the Segmental reporting higher of the value in use and fair value.
The Company operates predominantly one type of business pubs in the United Kingdom and the The value in use is calculated using the estimated Republic of Ireland.
Given the size of the Companys earnings and cash flows derived by management hotel business and trading presence in the Republic of estimates and applying a suitable pre-tax discount rate Ireland, these have not been separately disclosed to these cash flows.
At each reporting date, the Company assesses Exceptional items whether an asset may be impaired.
The Company presents, on the face of the income statement, those items of income and expense which, Any changes in the level of forecast earnings or cash because of the nature and magnitude of the event flows, the discount rate applied to those or the estimate giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow in sale proceeds fair value could give rise to an shareholders to better understand the elements of additional or reduced impairment provision.
financial performance in the year.
This helps to facilitate comparison with previous years and to better If a previously recognised impairment loss is reversed, assess trends in financial performance.
Impairment of the carrying amount of the asset is increased to its fixed assets and onerous lease charges and reversals recoverable amount.
That increased amount cannot are reported as exceptional, regardless of magnitude, exceed the carrying amount which would have been to provide consistency of treatment with previous determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment years and a better understanding for the financial loss been recognised for the asset in previous years.
36 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property gains and losses The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed The Company defines property gains and losses as annually for impairment, in case there has been an those items of income and expenditure which are the event or change in circumstances indicating that the result of owning and leasing assets which are noncarrying value may not be recoverable.
These include the impairment of fixed assets, movements in the onerous lease provision Investment property and proceeds and costs from the disposal of assets.
Freehold properties which are held primarily to derive These items are presented on the face of the income a rental income and for which there is no immediate statement to more clearly show the Companys intention to develop into a Wetherspoon pub are underlying performance.
Property, plant and equipment These properties are stated at cost, less accumulated Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less depreciation and any impairment in value and are accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
depreciated in line with the accounting policy for freehold land and buildings.
Cost of assets includes acquisition costs, as well as other directly attributable costs in bringing the asset Lease premiums into use.
Payments made on entering into or acquiring leaseholds which are accounted for as operating Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis, leases represent prepaid lease payments.
These are over the estimated useful life of the asset as follows: amortised on a straight-line basis.
Lease premiums are disclosed as other non-current assets.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets held for sale Freehold and long-leasehold buildings are depreciated Where the value of an asset will be recovered through to their estimated residual values over 50 years.
a sale transaction, rather than continuing use, the asset is classified as held for sale.
Assets held for sale are Short-leasehold buildings are depreciated over the valued at the lower of book value and fair value, less lease period.
any costs of disposal, and are no longer depreciated.
Equipment, fixtures and fittings are depreciated over Inventories 3 to 10 years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is calculated on a weighted Assets are not depreciated until such time as they average basis, with net realisable value being the are ready for use.
estimated selling price, less any costs of disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving or Residual values and useful economic lives are damaged inventory, where appropriate.
reviewed and adjusted, if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
Bar and food inventory is recognised as an expense when sold.
Non-consumable inventory is recognised as Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and an expense immediately on receipt at a pub or hotel.
equipment reflect the difference between the net selling price and the carrying amount at the date of disposal Provisions and are recognised in the income statement.
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a Impairment losses are recognised in the income past event and it is probable that an outflow of statement in those expense categories consistent with resources will be required to settle the obligation the function of the impaired asset.
and a reliable estimate can be made of that obligations amount.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost, less accumulated Revenue recognition amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Revenue recognised at the time of sale is the fair value of bar, food, slot machine and hotel room sales, Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised after deducting discounts and sales-based taxes.
on a straight-line basis over their expected useful life, as follows: Revenue from hotel rooms is recognised when rooms are occupied and as services are provided, after Computer software, including related development and deduction of discounts and sales-based taxes.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 37 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Like-for-like sales Where the temporary difference arises from an asset Like-for-like sales growth is calculated by taking the or liability in a transaction which, at the time of the revenue, as per the accounting policy, for all pubs transaction, affects neither accounting nor taxable which have traded for more than 12 months and profit or loss.
comparing their revenue to the corresponding revenue of the previous year.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be Leases available against which the deductible temporary Leases where the Company assumes substantially differences, carried-forward tax credits or tax losses all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified can be utilised.
Assets acquired under finance leases are capitalised at the lower of their fair value Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are and the present value of future lease payments.
measured at the tax rates which are expected to apply The corresponding liability is included in the when the related asset is realised or liability settled, balance sheet as a finance lease payable.
Finance based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively charges included in lease payments are charged as enacted at the balance sheet date.
an expense to the income statement, while the asset is depreciated in line with the accounting policy for Income tax is charged or credited directly to the property, plant and equipment.
income statement, comprehensive income or equity.
The income tax charged or credited will follow the Leases where the lessor retains substantially all of the accounting treatment of the underlying item which has assets risks and benefits of ownership are classified as given rise to the income tax charged or credited.
If the operating lease is subject to fixed uplifts over the term of the lease, rental payments Free cash flow are charged to the income statement on a straight-line The calculation of free cash flow is based on the basis, over the period of the lease, in line with adopted net cash generated by business activities after accounting standards.
If the operating lease is subject funding interest, corporation tax, loan issue costs, to open-market rents, rental payments are charged at all reinvestment in information technology, head office the prevailing rates.
and pubs trading at the start of the period excluding extensions and the purchase of own shares under The Company also has concession rentals, the employee share incentive plan.
These are charged to operating profit at the higher of minimum contractual Financial instruments obligations under the agreements or based as a Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the percentage of turnover.
date on which the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument giving rise to Lease incentives the asset or liability.
Lease incentives are recognised as a reduction of rental expense and are amortised on a straight-line Financial assets basis.
The Company classifies its financial assets as loans and receivables.
The Company has no assets Borrowing costs which would fall into a category outside of loans Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense and receivables.
in the period in which they are incurred, unless the requirements by the adopted accounting standards Loans and receivables for the capitalisation of borrowing costs relating Loans and receivables are non-derivative to assets are met.
financial assets with fixed or determinable payments which are not quoted in an active market.
They are For the purpose of the cash flow reporting interest paid included in current assets, except for maturities greater and received are considered operating cash flows.
than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
These are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and Income taxes receivables comprise other receivables and Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to, the taxation authorities, based on tax rates and laws which Receivables are enacted or substantively enacted by the balance Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value sheet date.
and carried at amortised cost less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts Deferred income tax is recognised on all temporary is made when collection of the full amount is no longer differences arising between the tax bases of assets probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements, with the following exceptions: 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds ACCOUNTING POLICIES Cash and cash equivalents For interest-rate swaps, the effective portion of the gain Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term in comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion deposits.
For the purpose of the cash flow statement, is recognised in the income statement within fair value cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and gain loss on financial derivatives.
Amounts taken to short-term deposits as defined above.
Bank overdrafts comprehensive income are transferred to the income are shown within current financial liabilities on the statement when the hedged transaction is assessed to balance sheet.
be ineffective, when considering the Companys forecast debt levels for the period of time for which the Financial liabilities swaps are in place.
The Company classifies its financial liabilities as other financial liabilities.
The Company currently has no Share capital liabilities which would fall outside of this category, Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental with the exception of interest-rate swaps which are costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or described below in the section dealing with hedging options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, and are classified as fair value through profit and loss.
Other financial liabilities are measured at fair value When the Company repurchases its own shares the on initial recognition and subsequently measured at cost of the shares purchased and associated amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
transaction costs are taken directly to equity and deducted from retained earnings.
The nominal value of Trade and other payables shares purchases is transferred from share capital to Trade and other payables are recognised initially at the capital redemption reserve.
fair value and subsequently at amortised cost, using the effective-interest method.
Foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies Bank loans and borrowings are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing Interest-bearing bank loans and other borrowings are at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and recorded initially at fair value of consideration received, liabilities are translated at the year-end exchange rates, net of direct issue costs.
Borrowings are subsequently with the resulting exchange differences taken to the recorded at amortised cost, with any difference income statement.
between the amount recorded initially and the redemption value recognised in the income The Irish branchs results are translated at the average statement over the period of the bank loans, exchange rate for the reporting period: the balance using the effective-interest method.
sheet is translated at the year-end exchange rate.
Resulting exchange differences are recognised in Bank loans and loan notes are classified as current comprehensive income.
liabilities, unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least Revaluation gains and losses on the long-term 12 months after the balance sheet date.
financing of the Irish branch are recognised in comprehensive income.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Retirement benefits Derivative financial instruments used by the Company Contributions to personal pension schemes are are stated at fair value on initial recognition and at recognised in the income statement in the period in subsequent balance sheet dates.
All contributions are in respect of a defined contribution scheme.
The Company has Hedge accounting is used only where, at the inception no future payment obligations, once the contributions of the hedge, there is formal designation and have been paid.
documentation of the hedging relationship, it meets the Companys risk-management objective for undertaking Owners earnings the hedge and is expected to be highly effective.
Owners earnings measures the earnings attributable to shareholders from current activities, adjusted for Interest-rate swaps significant non-cash items and one-off items.
Owners Interest-rate swaps are classified as hedges earnings are calculated as profit before tax, exceptional where they hedge exposure to cash flow variability items, depreciation and amortisation and property in interest rates.
gains and losses less reinvestment in current properties and cash tax.
Cash tax is defined as the current years current tax charge.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 39 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Dividends The Company is waiting for clarification on the tax treatment of this change, before selecting the Dividends recommended by the board, but unpaid at transition method.
each period end, are not recognised in the financial statements until they are paid in the case of the interim On 28 May 2014, the International Accounting dividend or approved by shareholders at the annual Standards Board issued IFRS 15 Revenue from general meeting in the case of the final dividend.
Contracts with Customers which is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2018.
The impact of this accounting standard on the Companys accounts is Changes in net debt considered immaterial.
The Company does not have Changes in net debt are both the cash and non-cash long-term contractual relationships with its customers.
movements of the year, including movements in finance leases, borrowings, cash and cash equivalents.
On 24 July 2014, the International Accounting Standards Board issued IFRS 9 Financial Share-based charges Instruments: Recognition and Measurement which is The Company has an employee share incentive plan effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 9 addresses the classification, measurement and which awards shares to qualifying employees: there is derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, also a deferred bonus scheme which awards shares to introduces new rules for hedge accounting and a new directors and senior managers, subject to specific impairment model for financial assets.
Debt instruments currently classified as held-toThe cost of the awards in respect of these plans is maturity and measured at amortised cost will meet the measured by reference to the fair value at the date at conditions for classification at amortised cost under IFRS 9. which they are granted and is amortised as an expense over the vesting period.
In valuing these transactions, The Company believes that its current hedge no account is taken of any vesting conditions, other relationships will qualify as continuing hedges, than market conditions linked to the price of the shares upon the adoption of IFRS 9. of the Company.
The Company currently has no other share-based transactions.
Changes in standards The following new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 25 July 2016 and will have a minimal impact on the financial statements: Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses amendments to IAS 12 Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 7 Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions amendments to IFRS 2 Annual improvements to IFRS 2014 2016 cycle Transfers of investment property amendments to IAS 40 Standards and interpretations which are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Company: On 13 January 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board issued IFRS 16 Leases which is effective for periods starting on or after 1 January 2019.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for lease contracts, subject to exceptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets.
The impact of this standard is expected to be material.
The choice of transition method is expected to be significant.
The standard gives the option to either fully restate or recognise an asset equal to the value of the liability on the date of transition.
40 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
