Financials Accounting Policies FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 1 JULY 2017 Further information regarding the Groups business Basis of preparation activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future The Group financial statements consolidate those of Dunelm development, performance and position is set out in the Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries together Strategic Report on pages 8 to 37.
The financial position of referred to as the Group.
The Company financial statements the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing on pages 142 to 151 present information about the Company facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 23 to as a separate entity and not about its Group.
In addition, note 18 to the Annual Report and Accounts Dunelm Group plc and its subsidiaries are incorporated and includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for domiciled in the UK.
Dunelm Group plc is a listed public managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives company, limited by shares and the company registration and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The registered office is Watermead Business Park, Syston, Leicestershire, LE7 1AD.
Use of estimates and judgements The primary business activity of the Group is the sale of The presentation of the annual financial statements in homewares in the UK through a network of stores and conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires the websites.
Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions The Group financial statements have been prepared and that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of approved by the Directors in accordance with International assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS Interpretations associated assumptions are based on historical experience Committee IFRS IC interpretations as adopted by the and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable European Union and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these companies reporting under IFRS and these are presented on estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and these Group financial statements.
in any future periods affected.
The annual financial statements are prepared under the The key estimates and judgements used in the financial historical cost convention except for financial assets and statements are as follows: financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments Estimate: Inventory provisions and share-based payments, which have been stated at The Group provides against the carrying value of the fair value.
The financial statements are prepared in pounds inventories held where it is anticipated that net realisable sterling, rounded to the nearest hundred thousand.
value NRV will be below cost.
NRV is calculated as the expected selling price.
Future price reductions in turn are assumed to be in line with the Groups standard approach Going concern to clearing discontinued and slow-moving inventory and The Group has considerable financial resources together with are applied to such proportion of inventory as deemed long-standing relationships with a number of key suppliers appropriate given the level of cover in relation to recent sales and an established reputation in the retail sector across the history, on a line-by-line basis.
In their consideration of going concern, the Directors have reviewed the Groups future cash forecasts and profit Estimate: Acquisition valuations projections, which are based on market data and past The Group makes an assessment of the fair value of assets experience.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Groups and liabilities acquired in a business combination as at the forecasts and projections, which take into account reasonably acquisition date.
Non-current tangible assets are recognised possible changes in trading performance, show that the at net book value and subject to a review for impairment.
Group is able to operate within its current facilities and Acquired non-current intangible assets are valued recognised comply with its banking covenants for the foreseeable future.
when separately identifiable and the fair value measurable based on historical cost or with reference to common industry As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is valuation methods.
The fair value of finished goods inventory well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Having is assessed with reference to the current selling price, less any reassessed the principal risks, the Directors consider it costs of disposal, and a reasonable profit allowance for selling appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting effort, based on the profit for similar finished goods.
in preparing the financial information.
119 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 119 06 10 2017 12:12:13 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 1 JULY 2017 Judgement: Exceptional items Revenue The Group exercises its judgement in the classification of Revenue is generated from the sale of homewares and related certain items as exceptional and outside of the Groups goods and services through the Groups stores and websites.
The determination of whether an item Revenue therefore represents the proceeds from sales of should be separately disclosed as an exceptional item or goods and related services, excluding sales between Group other adjustments requires judgement on its materiality, companies and is after deducting returns, any discounts given nature and incidence, as well as whether it provides clarity on and VAT.
Revenue is recognised when risk and reward passes the Groups underlying trading performance.
In exercising to the customer, which is predominantly at the point of sale.
this judgement, the Group takes appropriate regard of IAS The exceptions to this are for: custom made products, 1 Presentation of financial statements as well as guidance where revenue is recognised at the point that the goods are issued by the Financial Reporting Council on the reporting collected: gift vouchers, where revenue is recognised when of exceptional items and alternative performance measures.
the vouchers are redeemed: and web sales, where revenue is The overall goal of the Group is to present the Groups recognised at the point of delivery.
Revenue is settled in cash underlying performance without distortion from one-off or at the point of sale.
non-trading events regardless of whether they are favourable or unfavourable to the underlying result.
Further details of the individual exceptional items, and the reasons for their Exceptional items disclosure treatment, are set out in note 3.
Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
Basis of consolidation They are items that are material either because of their size Business Combinations or their nature, or are non-recurring and are considered as The Group applies the acquisition method to account for exceptional items and are presented with the line items to business combinations.
The consideration transferred for which they best relate.
an acquisition is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquired assets and any equity interests issued by the Group.
The Expenses consideration transferred includes the fair value of any Property leases asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration Lease incentives received in respect of operating leases are arrangement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and recognised in the income statement evenly over the full term contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are of the lease.
measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Acquisition related costs are expenses as they are incurred.
Where leases for land and buildings provide for fixed rent review dates and amounts, the Group financial statements Subsidiaries account for such reviews by recognising, on a straight-line Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
An basis, the total implicit minimum lease payments over the investor controls an investee when it is exposed, or has rights, non-cancellable period of the lease term.
to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power Financial income and expenses over the investee.
The financial statements of subsidiaries Financial income and expenses comprise interest payable on are included in the consolidated financial statements from borrowings calculated using the effective interest method, the date that control commences until the date that control interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange ceases.
Transactions eliminated on consolidation Retirement benefits Intra-group balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or The Group operates a defined contribution pension plan income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, using a third-party provider.
Obligations for the contributions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial to this plan are recognised as an expense in the income statements.
Consistent accounting policies have been statement as incurred.
indd 120 06 10 2017 12:12:14 Financials Share-based payments Taxation The Group operates a number of equity-settled, share-based Tax on the profit or loss for the period comprises current compensation plans, under which the entity receives services and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement from employees as consideration for equity instruments except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly options of the Group.
The fair value of the employee in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
services received in exchange for the grant of the options is Current tax represents the expected tax payable on the recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed taxable income for the period, using tax rates enacted or is determined by reference to the fair value of the options substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, together with granted: any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous periods.
z Including any market performance condition for example, an entitys share price : Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between z Excluding the impact of any service and non-market the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial performance vesting conditions for example, profitability, reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation sales growth targets and remaining an employee of the purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they entity over a specified time period, and arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred tax is z Including the impact of any non-vesting conditions for not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset example, the requirement for employees to save.
of liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting Non-market performance and service conditions are nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using included in assumptions about the number of options that tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively are expected to vest.
The total expense is recognised over enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply the vesting period, which is the period over which all of the when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred specified vesting conditions are to be satisfied.
In addition, in some circumstances employees may provide A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is services in advance of the grant date and therefore the probable that future taxable profits will be available against grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of which the asset can be recognised.
Deferred tax assets are recognising the expense during the period between service reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the commencement period and grant date.
related tax benefit will be recognised.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets based on the non-market vesting conditions.
It recognises against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the taxes assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or When the options are exercised, the Company either issues different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle new shares, or uses treasury shares purchased for this the balances on a net basis.
For issued new shares, the proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium.
Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part they are approved such that the Company is obligated to pay the dividend.
Interim dividends are recorded when paid.
of the grant itself, and the charge will be treated as a cashsettled transaction.
Intangible assets Foreign currencies These comprise software development and implementation Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the costs, trademarks and brands and are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment see below.
Costs prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
incurred in developing the Groups own brands are expensed Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign as incurred.
currency are translated at the rates ruling at the balance sheet Separately acquired brands and customer lists are shown at date.
Resulting exchange gains or losses are recognised in the income statement for the period in financial income and historical cost.
Software, brands and customer lists acquired in a business combination are recognised at fair value at expenses.
These assets are deemed to have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Amortisation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost over their estimated useful lives.
121 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 121 06 10 2017 12:12:14 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 1 JULY 2017 Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on Depreciation the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each part estimated useful lives.
of an item of property, plant and equipment to write down the cost to its estimated residual value.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software The estimated useful lives are as follows: programmes are recognised as an expense as incurred.
Development costs that are directly attributable to the design Freehold buildings 50 years and testing of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group are recognised as intangible assets Leasehold improvements over the period of when the following criteria are met: the lease z It is technically feasible to complete the software product Plant and machinery 4 years so that it will be available for use: Refit improvements 7 years z Management intends to complete the software product Fixtures and fittings 3 to 5 years and use or sell it: The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and z There is an ability to use or sell the software product: adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
z It can be demonstrated how the software product will generate probable future economic benefits: An assets carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the assets carrying amount is greater z Adequate technical, financial and other resources to than its estimated recoverable amount.
complete the development and to use or sell the software product are available: and z The expenditure attributable to the software product Derivative financial instruments during its development can be reliably measured.
Derivative financial instruments used are forward foreign Other development expenditures that do not meet exchange contracts and structured foreign exchange these criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
These are measured at fair value.
The fair values are Development costs previously recognised as an expense are determined by reference to the market prices available from not recognised as an asset in a subsequent period.
the market on which the instruments involved are traded.
Computer software development costs recognised as assets Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as are amortised over their estimated useful lives.
hedges in line with the Groups treasury policy.
These are instruments that hedge exposure to variability in cash flows Amortisation that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a highly probable forecasted transaction.
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
These are as follows: For cash flow hedges the proportion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an Software development and licences 3 years effective hedge, as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Rights to trademarks and brands and 5 to 15 years Recognition and Measurement, is recognised in equity, customer lists directly in the hedge reserve with any ineffective portion recognised in the income statement.
Such hedges are tested, both at inception to ensure they are expected to Property, plant and equipment be effective and periodically throughout their duration to Owned assets assess continuing effectiveness.
The gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the historical cost less accumulated depreciation see below and income statement.
Cost includes the original purchased price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value its working condition for intended use.
derivative financial instruments not designated as hedges are recognised in the income statement.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
indd 122 06 10 2017 12:12:14 Financials Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary Financial assets securities classified as available-for-sale are recognised in Classifications other comprehensive income.
When securities classified The Group classifies its financial assets in the following as available-for-sale are sold or impaired, the accumulated categories: at fair value through profit or loss: loans and fair value adjustments recognised in equity are included in receivables: and available-for-sale.
The classification depends the income statement as Gains and losses from investment on the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount a Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss reported in the balance sheet when there is a legally Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the settle the liability simultaneously.
The legally enforceable short term.
Derivatives are also categorised as held for trading right must not be contingent on future events and must be unless they are designated as hedges.
Assets in this category enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event are classified as current assets if expected to be settled within of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the Company or the 12 months, otherwise they are classified as non-current.
b Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets Trade and other receivables with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the end of the value and then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method, net of impairment provisions.
These are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet notes 2.14 and 2.15.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable c Available-for-sale financial assets value.
Cost is derived using the average cost method and Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are includes costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their either designated in this category or not classified in any of present location and condition.
Net realisable value is the the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets estimated selling price less cost to sell in the ordinary course unless the investment matures or management intends to of business.
Provisions are made for obsolete, slow-moving or dispose of it within 12 months of the end of the reporting discontinued stock and for stock losses.
Recognition and measurement Cash and cash equivalents Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and on the trade date the date on which the Group commits to deposits.
All cash equivalents have an original maturity of purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised three months or less.
at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognised at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed Trade and other payables in the income statement.
Financial assets are derecognised Trade and payables are recognised initially at their fair value when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the have expired or have been transferred and the Group has effective interest method.
transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently carried at fair Bank borrowings and borrowing costs value.
Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at Interest-bearing bank loans are initially recorded at their fair amortised cost using the effective interest method.
value and subsequently held at amortised cost.
Transaction costs incurred are amortised over the term of the loan.
Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the financial assets at fair value through profit or loss category Borrowings are classed as current liabilities unless the Group are presented in the income statement within Other losses has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability gains net in the period in which they arise.
Dividend income for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is recognised in the income statement as part of other income when the Groups right to receive payments is established.
123 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 1 JULY 2017 25445.02 5-10-2017 Proof 9 Dunelm AR2017-Back.
indd 123 06 10 2017 12:12:14 Accounting Policies CONTINUED FOR THE 52 WEEKS ENDED 1 JULY 2017 Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the Impairment income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed the lease.
annually at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
New standards and interpretations The recoverable amount is the greater of fair value less costs No new standards, amendments or interpretations, effective of disposal, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the for the first time for the period beginning on or after 2 July estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present 2016 have had a material impact on the Group or Parent value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current Company.
market assessments of the time-value of money and the risks At the balance sheet date there are a number of new specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate standards and amendments to existing standards in issue largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount but not yet effective.
None of these are expected to have a is determined for assets grouped at the lowest levels for significant effect on the financial statements of the Group or which there are largely independent cash flows, i. e. the cashParent Company, except the following, set out below: generating unit to which the asset belongs.
IFRS 9, Financial instruments, addresses the classification, An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying measurement and recognition of financial assets and amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds the liabilities, and replaces IAS 39.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary income statement.
measurement categories for financial assets.
It is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, i. e. the Groups financial year ending June 2019, and work to assess the Share capital impact of the change on the Group is underway.
Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers deals with directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until useful information to users of financial statements about the shares are cancelled or reissued.
Where such shares are the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a and the related income tax effects, is included in equity good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18 Revenue and attributable to the Companys equity holders.
IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 i. e. the Groups financial year ending Provisions June 2019, and earlier application is permitted, subject to EU A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the endorsement.
An initial assessment of the impact of IFRS 16 Group has a current legal or constructive obligation as a result has been reviewed by management and further preparatory of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic work is underway.
benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and the IFRS 16, Leases addresses the definition of a lease, amount has been reliably measured.
A provision for onerous recognition and measurement of leases and establishes contracts, including property leases, is recognised when the principles for reporting useful information to users of financial expected benefit to be derived by the Group from a contract statements about the leasing activities of both lessees and is lower than the unavoidable costs of meeting its obligations lessors.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 is that most under the contract.
operating leases will be accounted for on the balance sheet A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is an for lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases, and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods expectation of future obligations relating to the maintenance of leasehold properties arising from events such as lease beginning on or after 1 January 2019, i. e. the Groups financial year ending June 2020, and earlier application is permitted, renewals or terminations.
subject to EU endorsement and the entity adopting IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers at the same time.
An Operating leases initial assessment of the impact of IFRS 16 has been reviewed by management and further preparatory work is underway.
The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment and motor vehicles.
Where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor, these leases are classified as operating leases.
