Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The preparation of the financial statements requires management The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to 1.
Authorisation of financial statements and Basis of consolidation to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these performance regimes and contractual obligations relating to statement of compliance with IFRSs The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial judgements and estimates are based on managements best operating delays caused by Network Rail, or caused by our own statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and its subsidiaries as at The consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
This process can be based primarily on 1 July 2017. the Group for the year ended 1 July 2017 were authorised for issue previous experience of settling such claims, or, in certain by the Board of directors on 6 September 2017 and the balance sheet Critical accounting judgements circumstances based on managements view of the most likely Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is was signed on the Boards behalf by Andrew Allner and Patrick The following are the critical judgements, apart from those outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the Butcher.
The Go-Ahead Group plc is a public limited company that involving estimations, that the directors have made in the process of expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The financial is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in England applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most and the issues relating to delay attribution to enable management statements of subsidiaries for use in the consolidation are prepared and Wales.
The Groups ordinary shares are publicly traded on the significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial to assess the most probable outcomes, nonetheless significant for the same reporting year as the parent company and are based London Stock Exchange and it is not under the control of any statements: judgements are required, which can have material impacts on the on consistent accounting policies.
All intra-group balances and single shareholder.
transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intraExceptional operating items group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating items prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable Non-controlling interests represent the equity interests not held on the face of the income statement, material items of revenue or Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU as they carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises by the Group in Govia Limited, a 65% owned subsidiary, and are expense which, because of the size or the nature and expected apply to the consolidated financial statements of the Group for the and other contracts.
Regular reviews are performed on the expected presented within equity in the consolidated balance sheet, separately infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate year ended 1 July 2017, and applied in accordance with the provisions outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and from shareholders equity.
presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
of the Companies Act 2006. judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs.
The The determination of whether items merit treatment as exceptional Joint ventures represent the 50% equity interest held by the Group in GTR franchise is complex and there are a number of contractual The Group is required to comply with IFRSs under IAS 1 Presentation in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement.
There are no respect of On Track Retail Limited, which is accounted for as a joint discussions underway with the DfT that have a range of reasonably of Financial Statements, except in extremely rare circumstances exceptional items in the current or comparative year.
arrangement as below, and disclosures are limited in this annual possible outcomes.
Managements judgements are that, relating to where management concludes that compliance would be so report as the business is currently immaterial to the Group.
events up to 1 July 2017, the impact on rail profitability of these misleading that it would conflict with the objective to present fairly Accounting for the rail pension schemes outcomes is likely to be within a range of plus or minus 5m.
Joint arrangements The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined Contract and franchise accounting specific to the rail business is benefit pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail A joint arrangement is defined as an arrangement of which two or 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies disclosed in the segmental analysis in note 4. industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible more parties have joint control and rights to the net assets.
Joint for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant Basis of preparation control is the contractually agreed sharing of control, which exists Measurement of franchise commitments franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most only when decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising businesses the RPS is a shared cost scheme which means that costs consent of the parties sharing control.
Interests in joint the Groups consolidated financial statements.
New accounting dilapidation provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also are formally shared 60% employer 40% employee.
In the year ended 1 arrangements are accounted for as either a joint venture or a joint standards and interpretations which require adoption in future years income claims from other rail franchise operators is set out in note July 2017 the Group has changed the way in which it accounts for rail operation in accordance with IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements.
have also been listed and our current view of the impact they will 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are subject to pension schemes in its income statement.
The Group has revised its have on financial reporting.
interpretation of franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements.
A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture when the accounting policy so that only the Groups resulting share of costs are The Group has significant internal expertise to assess and manage Group, along with other parties have joint control and rights to the net The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost recognised.
This compares to the previous approach where the full these aspects of the agreements and to enable management to assets of the arrangement.
Joint ventures are equity accounted in convention, as modified by the fair value of financial instruments.
service cost was included within the income statement and the assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, and accordance with IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures majority of the franchise adjustments were recognised through the The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is revised.
A joint arrangement is accounted for as a joint operation statement of comprehensive income.
Please refer to note 3 for sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest one hundred supported by valuations from professional external advisors to when the Group, along with other parties have joint control of the further details.
thousand 0.1m except when otherwise indicated.
arrangement, rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Joint operations are accounted for by Uninsured claims New standards Retirement benefit obligations Bus schemes including the Groups share of the assets, liabilities, income and The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the expense on a line by line basis.
of both the expected settlement of known claims and of the cost of first time for the financial year ended 1 July 2017: estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order Revenue recognition and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012 2014 Cycle to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with as set out in note 27.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the its brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts a global professional services company whose specialisms include income will flow to the Group and the value can be reliably measured.
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements Disclosure Initiative adequately factored in to the provision for known claims.
actuarial advice, to support the process of establishing reasonable Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received amendment bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Key sources of estimation uncertainty or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 41 Agriculture Groups particular circumstances.
Management also benchmark or duty.
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk Bearer Plants amendment these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors.
of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and IAS 38 Intangible Assets liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation amendment Contract and franchise accounting IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations amendment The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of privatisation and the relationships between them is governed IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities and IAS 28 Investment in Associates by a number of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and train operating companies.
These contracts include Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception amendment detailed performance regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating to the attribution of delays.
The IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements amendment processes for attribution, whilst well understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to resolve, particularly in Reflecting the nature of the Group, adoption of these new standards unusual circumstances.
and interpretations had no material impact on the financial position or reported performance of the Group.
com 117 116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Government grants continued Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching Rendering of services conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger expense item, it is recognised in operating costs within the income transport and rail passenger transport.
statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic basis to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant Bus revenue comprises contractual income from Transport for relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred income London TfL in London bus and amounts receivable generated from account and is released to the income statement over the expected ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf useful life of the relevant asset.
Franchise bid costs Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All in respect of passenger receipts and other related services such as franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status rolling stock maintenance and commission on tickets sold.
are treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local ultimate outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and operating costs.
In relation to the GTR franchise, passenger revenue amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the franchise is collected and remitted to the DfT net of management charges franchise extension, which ranges from 7 to 13 years.
payable by DfT as revenue.
Share based payment transactions Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an services provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting card income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income equity-settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
following: the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market conditions : conditions not related to performance or service nonRental income vesting conditions : performance conditions a vesting condition : Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and and service conditions a vesting condition.
subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which Profit and revenue sharing support agreements the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts payable recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent to which the to central government for the estimated cost to the Group of the period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of relevant amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an are charged to operating costs.
instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where nonRevenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee of a franchise.
Receipts are shown in revenue.
Property, plant and equipment No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not impairment in value.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, Exceptional operating items depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over its expected useful life on a straight line basis as follows: The Group presents as exceptional operating items on the face of the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years Finance revenue Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment in value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies Government grants Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Software continued Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the Software, that is not integral to the related hardware, is capitalised reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
as an intangible asset and stated at cost less amortisation and Rendering of services conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates to an Following initial recognition the carrying amount is measured at any impairment in value.
Amortisation is charged to the income The revenue of the Group comprises income from road passenger expense item, it is recognised in operating costs within the income amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Amortisation statement evenly over its expected useful life of three to five years.
transport and rail passenger transport.
statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic basis of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase, Franchise assets to the costs that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant settlement or other fide-recognition of debt are recognised directly Bus revenue comprises contractual income from Transport for relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a deferred income in the income statement.
Where the conditions relating to the award of a franchise require London TfL in London bus and amounts receivable generated from account and is released to the income statement over the expected the Group to assume legal responsibility for any pension liability ticket sales and revenue generated from services provided on behalf Leases useful life of the relevant asset.
that exists at that point in time, the Group recognises a liability of local transport authorities.
Assets held under finance leases, which are leases where representing the fair value of the related net pension deficit that the Franchise bid costs Rail revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the Group expects to fund during the franchise term.
When a pension models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan Limited which A key part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and asset have passed to the Group, and hire purchase contracts are deficit exists at the start of the franchise, a corresponding intangible administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry, securing franchises, principally to operate rail services in the UK.
All capitalised in the balance sheet, with a corresponding liability being asset is recognised, reflecting a cost in acquiring the right to operate in respect of passenger receipts and other related services such as franchise bid costs incurred prior to achieving preferred bidder status recognised, and are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives the franchise.
If a pension surplus exists at the start of the franchise, rolling stock maintenance and commission on tickets sold.
are treated as an expense in the income statement irrespective of the and the lease terms.
then a corresponding deferred income balance is recognised, In addition, franchise subsidy receipts from the DfT and local ultimate outcome of the bid.
Directly attributable, incremental costs representing a government grant.
The intangible asset or deferred The capital elements of future obligations under leases and hire Passenger Transport Executives PTEs are treated as revenue, incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a income balance is amortised through the income statement on a purchase contracts are included as liabilities in the balance sheet.
whereas franchise premium payments to the DfT are recognised in franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and straight-line basis over the period of the franchise.
In relation to the GTR franchise, passenger revenue amortised on a straight line basis over the life of the franchise The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the The carrying value of franchise assets is reviewed for impairment at is collected and remitted to the DfT net of management charges franchise extension, which ranges from 7 to 13 years.
income statement over the periods of the leases and hire purchase the end of the first financial year following the award of the franchise payable by DfT as revenue.
contracts and represents a constant proportion of the balance of and in other periods if events or changes in circumstances indicate Share based payment transactions capital repayments outstanding.
Revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to customers journey or for other services based on the proportion of Leases where a significant proportion of the risks and rewards of the fair value at the date at which they are granted, determined by an Business combinations and goodwill services provided.
The attributable share of season ticket or travel ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating external valuation using an appropriate pricing model.
In granting card income is deferred within liabilities and released to the income leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases, and the amortisation Business combinations are accounted for under IFRS 3 Business equity-settled options, conditions are linked to some or all of the statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel card.
Combinations revised using the acquisition method.
The cost of of lease incentives and initial direct costs in securing leases, are following: the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group plc market charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration conditions : conditions not related to performance or service nonRental income transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the amount lease term.
vesting conditions : performance conditions a vesting condition : Rental income is generated from rental of surplus properties and of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of and service conditions a vesting condition.
Taxation subleasing of rolling stock and railway infrastructure access.
It is measurement of non-controlling interest, either at fair value or at accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable assets, is Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount the period from grant to vesting date, being the date on which determined on a transaction by transaction basis.
Acquisition costs expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities on Profit and revenue sharing support agreements the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with incurred are expensed and included in administrative expenses.
an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply The rail companies have certain revenue and profit sharing a corresponding increase in equity.
The cumulative expense when the related asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets agreements with the DfT.
An accrual is made within amounts payable recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent to which the tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation to central government for the estimated cost to the Group of the period to vesting has expired and the directors best estimate of enacted at the balance sheet date.
in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances relevant amounts accrued at the balance sheet date.
Payments the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the case of an and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary are charged to operating costs.
instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax base of assets as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where nonRevenue support is provided by the DfT typically in the last two years and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be of a franchise.
It is provided for on all temporary are not met.
recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes differences, except: to the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to Property, plant and equipment No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except On the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting the income statement.
transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of transition to IFRSs less accumulated depreciation and any condition.
These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable impairment in value.
the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the profit or loss: and other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Where an aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling of their expected useful lives and the lease terms.
investments in subsidiaries where the timing of the reversal of the the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for the interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the award is recognised immediately.
the acquisition-date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, interest in the acquiree over the net identifiable amounts of the Exceptional operating items depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over assets acquired and the liabilities assumed in exchange for the Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is its expected useful life on a straight line basis as follows: The Group presents as exceptional operating items on the face of the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the income statement, material items of revenue or expense which, transactions separate from the business combinations, such as the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all or Leasehold land and buildings The life of the lease because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
The carrying Freehold buildings Over 50 to 100 years events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date understanding of financial performance.
business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient Bus vehicles Over 8 to 15 years IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractualtaxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred Finance revenue legal or separability criterion, are recognised separately from Plant and equipment Over 3 to 15 years income tax asset to be utilised.
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
recognised if the acquisition-date fair value can be measured reliably.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity in reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Any impairment correlation with the underlying transaction.
Otherwise, tax is recognised in the income statement.
in value is recognised immediately in the income statement.
com 119 118 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since 2.
Summary of significant accounting policies the last impairment loss was recognised.
Goodwill impairment losses continued are not reversed.
The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
After interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, on a systematic basis interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, less any residual value, over its remaining useful life.
liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any preexisting interest held in the business acquired, the difference is Non-current assets held for sale recognised in the income statement.
Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Noncurrent assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or within one year from the date of classification.
group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for Inventories internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value on a first in first out basis after making due Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the allowance for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost comprises direct operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with materials and costs incurred in bringing the items to their present the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the selling price less costs of sale.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the Cash and cash equivalents portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of Customer contracts three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow Customer contracts relate to the value attributed to contracts and statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
value is based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition.
Customer contracts have a residual value of nil and are Financial assets and derivatives amortised on a straight line basis over the unexpired contract term, The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel which is determined on an individual customer basis.
The price fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks amortisation expense is taken to the income statement as operating associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially costs.
recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value at each Impairment of assets balance sheet date.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired.
If any such indication exists, Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with IAS 39.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable the higher of the assets or cash-generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is determined for an transaction costs.
individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge market assessments of the time value of money and the risks results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then specific to the asset.
at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
of that non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity Impairment losses including goodwill impairment of continuing are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense hedged item affects net profit or loss.
categories consistent with the function of the impaired asset.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income statement as they arise.
longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since Hedge accounting is discontinued when the derivative expires or is valuation by agreeing the information in the valuation computation to 2.
Goodwill impairment losses sold, terminated or exercised without replacement or rollover, or contracts and other relevant documents.
The reinstated amount cannot exceed the carrying otherwise no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point The Group also compares the changes in the fair value of each asset If the aggregate of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling and liability with relevant external sources to determine whether the impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
After recognised in other comprehensive income is kept in equity until the change is reasonable.
interest and where the business combination is achieved in stages, such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods forecast transaction occurs, at which point it is taken to the income the acquisition date fair value of the acquirers previously held equity to allocate the assets revised carrying amount, on a systematic basis statement or included in the initial carrying amount of the related When required, the Group presents the valuation results to the audit interest in the acquiree is lower than the fair value of the assets, less any residual value, over its remaining useful life.
non-financial asset as described above.
If a hedged transaction is committee.
This includes a discussion of the major assumptions used liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any preno longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss in the valuations.
existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is Non-current assets held for sale recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to recognised in the income statement.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined Non-current assets classified as held for sale are measured at the the income statement.
classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Noncharacteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of the Fair value measurement current assets are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment fair value hierarchy as explained above.
testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through The Group measures financial instruments derivatives and noncontinuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale financial assets at fair value at each balance sheet date.
Fair values acquisition date, allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating Provisions units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate sale in its of financial instruments measured at amortised cost are disclosed in Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which note 23. from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a within one year from the date of classification.
group of units to which goodwill is allocated shall represent the to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market reliable estimate of the amount can be made.
If the effect is material, lowest level within the entity at which the goodwill is monitored for participants at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement expected future cashflows are discounted using a current pre-tax Inventories internal management purposes and not be larger than an operating is based on the presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Stocks of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost transfer the liability takes place either: and net realisable value on a first in first out basis after making due Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the allowance for obsolete and slow moving items.
Cost comprises direct In the principal market for the asset or liability, or the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with materials and costs incurred in bringing the items to their present In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous recovery is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the location and condition.
Net realisable value represents the estimated market for the asset or liability presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
Where operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the selling price less costs of sale.
discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to unwinding operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the to the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Uninsured liabilities Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the bank and in hand, and short term deposits with an original maturity of assumptions that market participants would use when pricing the The Group limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and Customer contracts three months or less.
For the purpose of the consolidated cashflow asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their public liability claims through insurance policies issued by third Customer contracts relate to the value attributed to contracts and statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash economic best interest.
These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
limits for total claims within the excess limits.
A provision is value is based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account recognised for the estimated cost to the Group to settle claims for acquisition.
Customer contracts have a residual value of nil and are a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using Financial assets and derivatives incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
amortised on a straight line basis over the unexpired contract term, the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market The Group uses derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel which is determined on an individual customer basis.
The participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate price fluctuations, and interest derivatives to hedge its risks amortisation expense is taken to the income statement as operating professional advice and is based on an assessment of the expected associated with interest rate fluctuations.
Such derivatives are initially The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the costs.
settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of recognised at fair value by reference to market values for similar circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure settlements that will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior instruments, and subsequently re-measured at fair value at each fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and Impairment of assets to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the balance sheet date.
minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is an Group by the insurer.
indication that an asset may be impaired.
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed Treasury shares Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the in the financial statements are categorised within the fair value Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount, being the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets not hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that Re-acquired shares in the Group, which remain uncancelled, are recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable the higher of the assets or cash-generating units fair value less is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole: deducted from equity.
Consideration paid and the associated costs costs to sell and its value in use.
are also recognised in shareholders funds as a separate reserve Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that for own shares.
Any gain or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or Changes in the fair value of financial instruments that are designated identical assets or liabilities are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of cancellation of the Groups shares is transferred from the reserve and effective as hedges of future cashflows are recognised in other Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that assets, and the estimated future cashflows are discounted to their for own shares to revenue reserves.
comprehensive income and the ineffective portion is recognised is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current immediately in the income statement.
When the cashflow hedge observable market assessments of the time value of money and the risks results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a liability, then Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that specific to the asset.
at the time that asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable or losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and is written down statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether to its recoverable amount.
For hedges that do not result in transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by rethe recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity Impairment losses including goodwill impairment of continuing assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of hedged item affects net profit or loss.
assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any For derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any gains At each reporting date, the Group analyses the movements in the indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the values of assets and liabilities which are required to be re-measured income statement as they arise.
If such indication exists, the or re-assessed as per the Groups accounting policies.
For this recoverable amount is estimated.
A previously recognised analysis, the Group verifies the major inputs applied in the latest impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change in the www.
com 121 120 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the Retirement benefits earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined date that the Group recognises  costs.
When benefit and defined contribution.
The costs of these are recognised a settlement eliminating all obligations for benefits already accrued in the income statement.
or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future Bus schemes entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are and is based on actuarial advice.
Net interest is calculated by charged to operating costs in the income statement as they fall due.
applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Rail schemes Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined effect of the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is plan assets excluding net interest are recognised in the statement partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
In contrast The current service cost is recognised in the income statement to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a within operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
A liability or asset is recognised in line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or asset comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined including as appropriate the impact of any minimum funding benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate requirements represents the deficit or surplus that the Group bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are expects to fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
Please to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information refer to note 3 Restatement of prior year comparatives and note 27 and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
Retirement benefit obligations for further details.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements: Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Assets for Unrealised Losses amendment 1 January 2017 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 9 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard includes requirements for classification, measurement, impairment, and fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group have assessed that IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and disclosures of the Groups financial instruments.
The value and impact will depend on the nature and value of financial instruments held at that time, but would not be expected to have a material impact in the year ended June 2019.
IFRS 15 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard establishes the principles that an entity is required to apply regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
The Group does not expect IFRS 15 to have a material impact when implemented in the year ended June 2019 on the basis that in both our rail and bus divisions, our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases.
An initial assessment has been carried out and determined IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Groups balance sheet liabilities.
Due to the extensive nature of leasing of rolling stock and other items in the rail business, the Group will continue to assess the impact of the standard, and will provide further quantitative data as we approach implementation in the year ended June 2020.
The directors do not anticipate adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
In the year ended 1 July 2017 the Group changed the way in which it accounts for rail pension schemes in its income statement.
Please refer to Note 3 Restatement of prior year comparatives for further details.
122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED Past service costs are recognised in the income statement on the 3.
Restatement of prior year comparatives Retirement benefits earlier of the date of the plan amendment or curtailment, and the The Group operates a number of pension schemes, both defined In the financial statements for the year ended 1 July 2017, The Go-Ahead Group has changed the way in which it accounts for defined benefit date that the Group recognises  costs.
When rail pension schemes impacting the income statement.
Reflecting that, under rail franchise agreements, the long term contractual benefit and defined contribution.
responsibility for the rail pension schemes rests with the Department for Transport, the franchisee is only responsible for agreed funding or a curtailment reducing future obligations as a result of a material contributions over the period of the franchise.
reduction in the scheme membership or a reduction in future Bus schemes The Groups balance sheet only recognises the share of the surplus or deficit expected to be realised over the life of each franchise based on entitlement occurs, the obligation and related plan assets are The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plans is remeasured using current actuarial assumptions and the resultant the assumptions and agreements at the balance sheet date.
The assessment at 1 July 2017 and at 2 July 2016 is that no net surplus or deficit determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit was required to be included in the balance sheet in respect of the railway pension schemes, after reflecting a franchise adjustment, in an gain or loss is recognised in the income statement during the period method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period in which the settlement or curtailment occurs.
approach consistent with prior years.
to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation Contributions payable under defined contribution schemes are The Group has revised its accounting policy to now only recognise the Groups resulting share of service costs in its income statement.
The net service cost is therefore calculated looking at the near term liability for the employees only, and the costs of the employer only, over the life of and is based on actuarial advice.
the franchise rather than costs that will be borne by other parties.
This takes into account any increase that may come about at triennial Rail schemes reviews within the franchise life or any variations in the annual contributions over the franchise.
This compares to the previous approach where Remeasurements, comprising of actuarial gains and losses, the the full service cost was included within the income statement and the franchise adjustments arising were recognised through the statement The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined effect of the asset ceiling excluding net interest and the return on of comprehensive income.
Accordingly the railway pensions cost for the period reflects the service cost calculated of 92.6m 2016: 85.5m benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is plan assets excluding net interest are recognised in the statement and administration costs of 7.2m 2016: 3.9m now reduced by a franchise adjustment of 62.8m 2016: 45.2m leading to a net income partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
In contrast The current service cost is recognised in the income statement to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a This new approach better reflects that a substantial part of the service cost relates to an estimate of the cost of benefits accruing in the within operating costs.
The net interest expense or income is shared cost scheme, which means that costs are formally shared current year but for which funding falls beyond the duration of the franchise, the contributions for which will be borne by future franchise recognised in the income statement within finance costs.
A liability or asset is recognised in holders and the Department for Transport.
The change has been effected by means of utilising part of the franchise adjustment arising to line with other defined benefit schemes in the Group, although this is reduce the expense charged in the income statement to the extent it will be borne by others, rather than it being reflected only through the The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet offset by a franchise adjustment so that the net liability or asset statement of comprehensive income.
comprises the total for each plan of the present value of the defined including as appropriate the impact of any minimum funding benefit obligation using a discount rate based on high quality corporate requirements represents the deficit or surplus that the Group The revision to accounting for railway pension schemes was announced on 29 November 2016 and is considered by the directors to be a better bonds, less the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are expects to fund or benefit from during the franchise term.
Please approach to reflect the Groups share of the costs of the railway defined benefit pension schemes in its franchises.
The audit committees to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information refer to note 3 Restatement of prior year comparatives and note 27 consideration of this change is noted within the report of the audit committee on page 70.
No changes to the treatment of the bus schemes and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
have arisen reflecting that this matter is unique to the Groups rail franchises.
The tables below detail the adjustments made to the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive New standards and interpretations not applied income as a result of the revision to the accounting policy.
There was no impact on the consolidated balance sheet as a result of the revision to The International Accounting Standards Board has issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of the accounting policy.
these financial statements: Consolidated income statement Effective date International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs periods beginning on or after Impact of IAS 12 Income Taxes Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets and Assets for Unrealised Losses amendment 1 January 2017 Reported change in Restated Year to accounting Year to IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 2 Jul 16 policy 2 Jul 16 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 m m m IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 Audited Audited Group revenue 3,361.3 3,361.3 Operating costs 3,243.9 45.2 3,198.7 IFRS 9 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard includes requirements for classification, measurement, Group operating profit 117.4 45.2 162.6 impairment, and fide-recognition of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group have assessed that IFRS 9 may impact both the measurement and Finance revenue 3.2 3.2 disclosures of the Groups financial instruments.
Finance costs 20.8 20.8 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 99.8 45.2 145.0 IFRS 15 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard establishes the principles that an entity is required to apply 18.5 8.4 26.9 Tax expense regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from a contract with a customer.
The Group does not expect IFRS 15 to have a material impact when implemented in the year ended June 2019 on the basis that in both our rail and bus divisions, Profit for the year from continuing operations 81.3 36.8 118.1 our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
Attributable to: IFRS 16 is effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The standard establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, Equity holders of the parent 69.7 24.0 93.7 presentation and disclosure of leases.
An initial assessment has been carried out and determined IFRS 16 will have a material impact on the Non-controlling interests 11.6 12.8 24.4 Groups balance sheet liabilities.
Due to the extensive nature of leasing of rolling stock and other items in the rail business, the Group will 81.3 36.8 118.1 continue to assess the impact of the standard, and will provide further quantitative data as we approach implementation in the year ended June 2020.
Earnings per share The directors do not anticipate adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations will have a material impact on the Groups basic 162.3p 55.9p 218.2p financial statements.
diluted 161.4p 55.5p 216.9p In the year ended 1 July 2017 the Group changed the way in which it accounts for rail pension schemes in its income statement.
com 123 122 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Restatement of prior year comparatives continued Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Impact of Reported change in Restated Year to accounting Year to 2 Jul 16 policy 2 Jul 16 m m m Audited Audited Profit for the year 81.3 36.8 118.1 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 100.8 45.2 55.6 Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 19.7 8.4 11.3 81.1 36.8 44.3 Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges 17.4 17.4 Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement operating costs 28.7 28.7 Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 2.1 2.1 Foreign exchange gain 0.4 0.4 9.6 9.6 Other comprehensive gains for the year, net of tax 90.7 36.8 53.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 172.0 172.0 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 147.6 147.6 Non-controlling interests 24.4 24.4 172.0 172.0 124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Restatement of prior year comparatives continued 4.
Segmental analysis The Groups businesses are managed on a divisional basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basis below.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For management purposes, the Group is now organised into three reportable segments: regional bus, London bus and rail.
Operating Impact of Reported change in Restated segments within those reportable divisions are combined on the basis of their long term characteristics and similar nature of their products Year to accounting Year to and services, as follows: 2 Jul 16 policy 2 Jul 16 m m m The regional bus division comprises UK bus operations outside London.
Audited Audited The London bus division now comprises bus operations in London under control of Transport for London TfL, rail replacement and other Profit for the year 81.3 36.8 118.1 contracted services in London, and bus operations in Singapore under control of the Land Transport Authority LTA of Singapore.
These are aggregated as a segment given the similar contractual nature of the business.
Other comprehensive income The rail operation through an intermediate holding company, Govia Limited, is 65% owned by Go-Ahead and 35% by Keolis and comprises Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss three rail franchises: Southeastern, London Midland and GTR.
The division is aggregated for the purpose of segmental reporting under IFRS 8 Remeasurement gains on defined benefit pension plans 100.8 45.2 55.6 as each operating company has similar objectives, to provide passenger rail services and achieve a modest profit margin through its franchise Tax relating to items that will not be reclassified 19.7 8.4 11.3 arrangements with the Department for Transport DfT.
Each company targets similar margins, has similar economic risks and is viewed and 81.1 36.8 44.3 reacted to as one segment by the chief operating decision maker, considered to be the Group Chief Executive.
The registered office of Keolis Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss UK Limited is in England and Wales.
Unrealised losses on cashflow hedges 17.4 17.4 The information reported to the Group Chief Executive in his capacity as chief operating decision maker does not include an analysis of assets Losses on cashflow hedges taken to income statement operating costs 28.7 28.7 and liabilities and accordingly IFRS 8 does not require this information to be presented.
Tax relating to items that may be reclassified 2.1 2.1 Transfer prices between operating segments are on an arms length basis similar to transactions with third parties.
Foreign exchange gain 0.4 0.4 9.6 9.6 The following tables present information regarding the Groups reportable segments for the year ended 1 July 2017 and the year ended 2 July 2016.
Other comprehensive gains for the year, net of tax 90.7 36.8 53.9 Year ended 1 July 2017 Regional London Total Total Total comprehensive income for the year 172.0 172.0 bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Segment revenue 406.8 545.3 952.1 2,594.6 3,546.7 Attributable to: Inter-segment revenue 30.2 19.9 50.1 15.5 65.6 Equity holders of the parent 147.6 147.6 Group revenue 376.6 525.4 902.0 2,579.1 3,481.1 Non-controlling interests 24.4 24.4 Operating costs 329.5 481.8 811.3 2,519.2 3,330.5 172.0 172.0 Group operating profit 47.1 43.6 90.7 59.9 150.6 Share of result of joint venture 0.4 Net finance costs 13.4 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 136.8 Tax expense 25.3 Profit for the year 111.5 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 49.6 63.1 112.7 29.2 141.9 Acquisitions 8.7 8.7 8.7 Intangible assets 8.4 8.4 3.3 11.7 Depreciation 31.5 24.6 56.1 9.3 65.4 At 1 July 2017, there were non-current assets included within London bus of 2.1m 2016: 1.2m relating to operations in Singapore.
The operations in Singapore commenced trading on 4 September 2016 and the revenue generated during the year to 1 July 2017 was 39.7m 2016: nil.
We have two major customers which individually contribute more than 10% of the Group revenue, one of which contributes 1,148.6m 2016: 1,076.6m and the other contributes 479.1m 2016: 481.5m.
com 125 124 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Segmental analysis continued Year ended 2 July 2016 Restated Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6 Inter-segment revenue 27.6 19.6 47.2 13.1 60.3 Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3 Operating costs 327.2 444.9 772.1 2,426.6 3,198.7 Group operating profit 48.5 42.7 91.2 71.4 162.6 Net finance costs 17.6 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 145.0 Tax expense 26.9 Profit for the year 118.1 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m Other segment information Capital expenditure: Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9 Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 1.2 Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 1.1 Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2 5.
Group revenue This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income and Profit and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
2017 2016 m m Rendering of services 3,502.6 3,498.5 Rental income 25.9 22.8 GTR franchise revenue adjustment 179.7 276.0 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 132.3 116.0 Group revenue 3,481.1 3,361.3 Finance revenue 2.4 3.2 Total Group revenue 3,483.5 3,364.5 126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Operating costs Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating costs.
For accounting policies see Profit and revenue Year ended 2 July 2016 Restated sharing support agreements, Property, plant and equipment, Government grants and Franchise bid costs in note 2.
Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations Restated m m m m m 2017 2016 Segment revenue 403.3 507.2 910.5 2,511.1 3,421.6 m m Employee costs note 7 1,237.6 1,170.3 Inter-segment revenue 27.6 19.6 47.2 13.1 60.3 Operating lease payments Group revenue 375.7 487.6 863.3 2,498.0 3,361.3 bus vehicles 14.0 15.4 Operating costs 327.2 444.9 772.1 2,426.6 3,198.7 non-rail properties 2.6 3.3 Group operating profit 48.5 42.7 91.2 71.4 162.6 other non-rail 0.1 Net finance costs 17.6 rail rolling stock 465.9 427.7 Profit before tax and non-controlling interests 145.0 other rail 165.5 112.2 Tax expense 26.9 1 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges 648.1 558.6 Profit for the year 118.1 rail access charges 489.4 519.2 2 Total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense 1,137.5 1,077.8 Regional London Total Total bus bus bus Rail operations m m m m m DfT Franchise agreement receipts payments 35.2 38.2 Other segment information Other operating income 17.9 17.5 Capital expenditure: Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Additions 57.4 38.7 96.1 17.8 113.9 owned assets 64.9 54.9 Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 1.2 leased assets 0.5 0.3 Intangible assets 1.0 0.1 1.1 1.1 Total depreciation expense 65.4 55.2 Depreciation 29.0 18.8 47.8 7.4 55.2 Intangible amortisation 3.1 3.0 Auditors remuneration 5.
Group revenue audit of parent financial statements 0.1 0.1 This note provides an analysis of Group revenue.
For accounting policies see Revenue recognition, Rendering of services, Rental income audit of subsidiary financial statements 0.6 0.5 and Profit and revenue sharing support agreements in note 2.
Total audit fees 0.7 0.6 2017 2016 0.1 taxation compliance services by EY 0.1 m m 3 0.4 other non-audit 0.1 Rendering of services 3,502.6 3,498.5 Total non-audit fees 0.5 0.2 Rental income 25.9 22.8 Total auditors remuneration 1.2 0.8 GTR franchise revenue adjustment 179.7 276.0 Franchise subsidy receipts and revenue support 132.3 116.0 0.7 Trade receivables not recovered 0.8 Group revenue 3,481.1 3,361.3 Energy costs Finance revenue 2.4 3.2 102.7 bus fuel 116.8 Total Group revenue 3,483.5 3,364.5 10.8 rail diesel fuel 9.8 120.6 rail electricity EC4T 122.3 15.4 cost of site energy 15.3 Total energy costs 249.5 264.2 Government grants 2.1 4.1 Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.9 0.7 Profit on sale of assets held for sale 0.7 Costs expensed relating to franchise bidding activities 11.1 5.7 DfT profit share 33.5 43.7 Other operating costs 647.0 560.6 Total operating costs 3,330.5 3,198.7 1.
The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense excluding rail access charges are made up of minimum lease payments of 634.3m 2016: 574.2m, net of sublease payments of 13.8m 2016: 15.6m relating to other rail leases.
The total lease and sublease payments recognised as an expense are made up of minimum lease payments of 1,151.3m 2016: 1,093.4m, net of sublease payments of 13.8m 2016: 15.6m relating to other rail leases.
Other non-audit services of 0.4m 2016: 0.1m are detailed in the audit committee report on page 68.
During the year, 1.8m 2016: 1.4m was also paid to other Big 4 accounting firms for a variety of services.
Government grant income of 2.1m 2016: 4.1m is mainly attributable to service improvements including smart ticketing, deliverable over a period of up to five years.
com 127 126 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Employee costs This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
We have a number of share plans used to award shares to directors and employees.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the award at the date of grant.
The note also shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year.
For accounting policies see Share based payment transactions in note 2.
Following changes by the Government looking to simplify certain aspects of pensions regulation from April 2016, the right for employees to contract out of the state pension was removed.
After industry wide consultation with active railway pension scheme members, changes were made to the pension scheme rules, which enabled the pension cost to reduce to cover the majority of the impact of the national insurance cost increase arising following these changes.
The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: 2017 2016 Administration and supervision 3,189 3,007 Maintenance and engineering 2,698 2,597 Operations 23,187 21,962 29,074 27,566 The information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 is provided in the directors remuneration report.
Sharesave scheme Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Option scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Group and its operating companies.
The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months of continuous service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum of 5 to a maximum not exceeding 500 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
For the February 2016 launch, the maximum monthly savings limit set by the Group was 50.
At the end of the savings period, employees can buy shares at a 20% discount of the market price set at the date of invitation or take their full savings back.
The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, future dividend yield, future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
There are savings-related options at 1 July 2017 as follows: Scheme maturity 1 May 2019 1 May 2017 19.11 Option price 17.34 326,928 No.
of options unexercised at 1 July 2017 262,816 63 No.
of options exercised during the year 85,404 No.
of options exercisable at 1 July 2017 262,816 The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 1 July 2017 was 0.8m 2016: 0.4m.
The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: 2017 2016 2017 WAEP 2016 WAEP No.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 764,904 18.19 436,322 17.34 Granted during the year 370,251 19.11 Forfeited during the year 89,693 18.14 40,002 17.46 Exercised during the year 85,467 17.34 1,667 17.34 Outstanding at the end of the year 589,744 18.32 764,904 18.19 128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Employee costs continued The weighted average exercise price at the date of exercise for the options exercised in the period was 17.34 2016: 17.34.
This note shows total employment costs, inclusive of share based payment charges.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement, based on the fair value of the At the year end, 262,816 2016: nil options were exercisable and the weighted average exercise price of the options was 18.32 2016: 18.19. award at the date of grant.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have a weighted average remaining contracted life of 1.01 years 2016: 1.79 years.
Restated Long Term Incentive Plans 2017 2016 m m The executive directors participate in The Go-Ahead Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 and 2015 LTIP.
The LTIP provides for executive directors to be awarded nil cost shares in the Group conditional on specified performance conditions being met over a period of three years.
Wages and salaries 1,077.8 1,017.6 1 Refer to the directors remuneration report for further details of the LTIP.
Social security costs 107.2 92.2 1 Other pension costs 49.9 58.3 The expense recognised for the LTIP during the year to 1 July 2017 was 0.6m 2016: 0.5m.
Share based payments charge 2.7 2.2 The fair value of LTIP options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using a Monte Carlo model, taking into account the terms and conditions 1,237.6 1,170.3 upon which the options were granted.
The inputs to the model used for the options granted in the year to 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 were: 1.
Following changes by the Government looking to simplify certain aspects of pensions regulation from April 2016, the right for employees to contract out of 2017 2016 the state pension was removed.
After industry wide consultation with active railway pension scheme members, changes were made to the pension scheme % per annum % per annum rules, which enabled the pension cost to reduce to cover the majority of the impact of the national insurance cost increase arising following these changes.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Future share price volatility 28.0 21.0 The average monthly number of employees during the year, including directors, was: FTSE Mid-250 index comparator 2017 2016 Future share price volatility 25.0 20.0 Administration and supervision 3,189 3,007 Correlation between companies 30.0 30.0 Maintenance and engineering 2,698 2,597 Operations 23,187 21,962 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 14.90 2016: 20.82.
29,074 27,566 The following table shows the number of share options for the LTIP: The information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment 2017 2016 Regulations 2013 is provided in the directors remuneration report.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 84,415 181,302 Granted during the year 57,771 32,618 Sharesave scheme Forfeited during the year 3,047 33,157 Shareholder approval was obtained at the 2013 AGM for the introduction of a new HM Revenue & Customs approved Savings-Related Share Exercised during the year 27,415 96,348 Option scheme, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc 2013 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme the Sharesave scheme for employees of the Outstanding at the end of the year 111,724 84,415 Group and its operating companies.
At the year end, 11,520 options related to the 2014 LTIP award, which will be eligible to vest from November 2017.
The weighted average share The Sharesave scheme is open to all full time and part-time employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months price of the options was 17.77 2016: 19.78. of continuous service with a Go-Ahead Group company at the date they are invited to participate in a scheme launch.
To take part, qualifying employees have to enter into a savings contract for a period of three years under which they agree to save a monthly amount, from a minimum The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 1.33 years 2016: 1.03 years.
The weighted average share price of options of 5 to a maximum not exceeding 500 specified by the Group at the time of invitation.
For the February 2016 launch, the maximum monthly exercised was 20.33 2016: 25.44. savings limit set by the Group was 50.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP provides for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in the Group The fair value of equity-settled share options granted is estimated as at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
The shares are deferred over a three year period.
Refer to the directors the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The key assumptions input into the model are future share price volatility, remuneration report for further details of the DSBP.
future dividend yield, future risk free interest rate, forfeiture rate and option life.
There are savings-related options at 1 July 2017 as follows: The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year to 1 July 2017 was 1.3m 2016: 1.3m.
Scheme maturity 1 May 2019 1 May 2017 The DSBP options are not subject to any market based performance conditions.
Therefore the fair value of the options is equal to the share 19.11 price at the date of grant.
of options unexercised at 1 July 2017 262,816 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was 20.08 2016: 25.97.
of options exercised during the year 85,404 The following table shows the number of share options for the DSBP: No.
of options exercisable at 1 July 2017 262,816 2017 2016 The expense recognised for the scheme during the year to 1 July 2017 was 0.8m 2016: 0.4m.
Outstanding at the beginning of the year 165,646 136,144 The following table illustrates the number and weighted average exercise price WAEP of share options for the Sharesave scheme: Granted during the year 44,490 62,047 Forfeited during the year 7,711 18,341 2017 2016 2017 WAEP 2016 WAEP Exercised during the year 26,167 14,204 No.
Outstanding at the end of the year 176,258 165,646 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 764,904 18.19 436,322 17.34 At the year end, 7,427 options related to the 2013 DSBP award and vested in November 2016 but have not yet been exercised by participants.
Granted during the year 370,251 19.11 70,405 options relating to the 2014 DSBP will be eligible to vest from November 2017 following the end of a three year deferral period.
The Forfeited during the year 89,693 18.14 40,002 17.46 weighted average share price of the options was 17.77 2016: 19.78.
Exercised during the year 85,467 17.34 1,667 17.34 The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.81 years 2016: 1.18 years.
The weighted average share price of options Outstanding at the end of the year 589,744 18.32 764,904 18.19 exercised was 20.10 2016: 25.57. www.
com 129 128 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Employee costs continued Share incentive plans The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP is open to all Group employees including executive directors who have completed at least six months service with a Group company at the date they are invited to participate in the plan.
The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and dividend shares, although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying employees to apply between 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Under the terms of the scheme, certain tax advantages are available to the Group and employees.
Finance revenue and costs Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits.
Finance costs mainly arise from interest due on the bond and bank loans.
For accounting policies see Finance revenue and Interest-bearings loans and borrowings in note 2.
2017 2016 m m Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 2.4 3.2 Finance revenue 2.4 3.2 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.7 2.0 Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.0 11.3 Other interest payable 1.7 2.2 Unwinding of discounting on provisions 0.2 2.4 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.2 0.8 Interest on net pension liability 2.1 Finance costs 15.8 20.8 9.
Taxation This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax assets and liabilities held across the Group.
For accounting policies see Taxation in note 2.
The Group tax policy can be found at www.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity Restated 2017 2016 m m Current tax charge 27.2 28.5 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 27.2 29.1 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 19.75% 2016: 20% 1.9 1.3 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.3 0.2 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 4.1 3.7 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 25.3 26.9 Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss: Restated 2017 2016 m m Tax on remeasurement losses gains on defined benefit pension plans 4.1 10.1 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 0.9 2.1 Deferred tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 0.5 Corporation tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 2.9 13.6 130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7.
Taxation continued Share incentive plans b. Reconciliation The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation, at the statutory tax rate, to tax at the Groups effective tax rate for the years ended 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 is as follows: Plan SIP.
Restated 2017 2016 The SIP permits the Group to make four different types of awards to employees free shares, partnership shares, matching shares and m m dividend shares, although the Group has, so far, made awards of partnership shares only.
Under these awards, the Group invites qualifying Accounting profit on ordinary activities before taxation 136.8 145.0 employees to apply between 10 and 150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing market price.
Finance revenue and costs Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 Finance revenue comprises interest received from bank deposits.
Bid costs not allowable for tax purposes 0.6 0.8 For accounting policies see Finance revenue and Interest-bearings loans and borrowings in note 2.
Share scheme costs not allowable for tax purposes 0.3 0.2 2017 2016 Non-qualifying depreciation 0.6 m m Expenditure not allowable for tax purposes 0.4 0.2 Bank interest receivable on bank deposits 2.4 3.2 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.3 0.2 Finance revenue 2.4 3.2 Movement on unrecognised deferred tax on losses carried forward 0.6 Effect of the difference between current year corporation tax and deferred tax rates 0.4 Interest payable on bank loans and overdrafts 2.7 2.0 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 4.1 3.7 Interest payable on 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 11.0 11.3 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 25.3 26.9 Other interest payable 1.7 2.2 Effective tax rate 18.5% 18.6% Unwinding of discounting on provisions 0.2 2.4 Interest payable under finance leases and hire purchase contracts 0.2 0.8 The Group had subsidiary companies in Germany, Scandinavia and Singapore during the year.
Costs incurred by these companies were either Interest on net pension liability 2.1 expensed in the UK without tax relief being claimed or were carried forward as prepayments without tax relief being claimed during the year.
Finance costs 15.8 20.8 As such the Group was entirely taxable in the UK during the course of the financial year.
Taxation The Group has not recognised a deferred tax asset of 0.9m based on a rate of 29% in respect of losses incurred in Germany carried forward.
This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note sets out the deferred tax assets and liabilities held c. Reconciliation of current tax liabilities across the Group.
A reconciliation of the current tax liability is provided below: The Group tax policy can be found at www.
Tax recognised in the income statement and in equity m m Restated Current tax liability at start of year 18.9 14.9 2017 2016 Corporation tax reported in consolidated income statement 27.2 29.1 m m Corporation tax taken directly to equity 0.3 Current tax charge 27.2 28.5 Paid in the year 34.1 24.8 Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 0.6 Current tax liability at end of year 12.0 18.9 27.2 29.1 Deferred tax relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences at 19.75% 2016: 20% 1.9 1.3 d. Deferred tax Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years 0.3 0.2 The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 4.1 3.7 2017 2016 Tax reported in consolidated income statement 25.3 26.9 m m Deferred tax liability Tax relating to items charged or credited outside of profit or loss: Accelerated capital allowances 25.0 28.4 Restated Other temporary differences 10.8 8.4 2017 2016 m m Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 12.0 13.3 Tax on remeasurement losses gains on defined benefit pension plans 4.1 10.1 Deferred tax liability included in balance sheet 47.8 50.1 Deferred tax on cashflow hedges 0.9 2.1 Deferred tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 0.5 Deferred tax asset Corporation tax on share based payments taken directly to equity 0.3 Retirement benefit obligations 3.6 0.5 Impact of opening deferred tax rate reduction 1.2 Cashflow hedges 1.9 2.8 Tax reported outside of profit or loss 2.9 13.6 Share based payments 0.6 0.9 Deferred tax asset included in balance sheet 6.1 4.2 The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available.
The deferred tax liabilities and assets included in the balance sheet have been calculated using applicable enacted rates.
com 131 130 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Taxation continued Of the deferred tax liability, 1.5m 2016: 1.6m is classed as current and 46.3m 2016: 48.5m is classed as non-current.
Of the deferred tax asset, 1.3m 2016: 2.0m is classed as current and 4.8m 2016: 2.2m as non-current.
The movements in deferred tax in the income statement and other comprehensive income for the years ending 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 are as follows: Year ended 1 July 2017 Recognised Recognised in in other Recognised At 2 July income comprehensiv directly in At 1 July 2016 statement e income equity Acquisitions 2017 m m m m m m Accelerated capital allowances 28.4 3.2 0.2 25.0 Asset backed funding pension arrangement 8.3 1.8 10.1 Other temporary differences 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.7 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 13.3 1.3 12.0 Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.0 4.1 3.6 Cashflow hedges 2.8 0.9 1.9 Share based payments 0.9 0.3 0.6 45.9 1.9 3.2 0.3 0.6 41.7 Year ended 2 July 2016 Restated Recognised Recognised in in other Recognised At 27 June income comprehensive directly in Transfer At 2 July 2015 statement income equity categories 2016 m m m m m m Accelerated capital allowances 29.6 1.2 28.4 Asset backed funding pension arrangement 6.5 1.8 8.3 6.3 Other temporary differences 5.4 0.8 0.1 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 15.4 2.1 13.3 Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 0.1 11.3 0.5 Cashflow hedges 2.1 4.9 2.8 Share based payments 0.5 1.4 0.9 13.4 0.5 34.2 2.2 45.9 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m 0.4 Accelerated capital allowances 0.2 0.6 0.6 Revaluation 1.0 Retirement benefit obligations 0.1 2.3 Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.4 0.4 0.8 Other temporary differences 1.9 1.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 0.2 Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 4.1 3.7 Deferred tax expense 1.9 2.2 The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
A rate of 19.75% therefore applies to the current tax charge arising during the year ended 1 July 2017.
In addition to the change in rate of corporation tax identified above, further reductions in the rate to 17% from 1 April 2020 were substantively enacted prior to the balance sheet date and have been applied where applicable to the Groups deferred tax balance at the balance sheet date.
132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Earnings per share Of the deferred tax liability, 1.5m 2016: 1.6m is classed as current and 46.3m 2016: 48.5m is classed as non-current.
Of the deferred tax Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted asset, 1.3m 2016: 2.0m is classed as current and 4.8m 2016: 2.2m as non-current.
average number of shares in issue during the year.
The movements in deferred tax in the income statement and other comprehensive income for the years ending 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 are Basic and diluted earnings per share as follows: Restated 2017 2016 Year ended 1 July 2017 m m Recognised Net profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 89.1 93.7 Recognised in in other Recognised At 2 July income comprehensiv directly in At 1 July 2016 statement e income equity Acquisitions 2017 Restated m m m m m m 2017 2016 Accelerated capital allowances 28.4 3.2 0.2 25.0 Basic weighted average number of shares in issue 000 42,902 42,951 Asset backed funding pension arrangement 8.3 1.8 10.1 Dilutive potential share options 000 122 247 Other temporary differences 0.1 0.2 0.8 0.7 Diluted weighted average number of shares in issue 000 43,024 43,198 Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost on conversion to IFRS 13.3 1.3 12.0 Earnings per share: Retirement benefit obligations 0.5 1.0 4.1 3.6 Basic earnings per share pence per share 207.7 218.2 Cashflow hedges 2.8 0.9 1.9 Diluted earnings per share pence per share 207.1 216.9 Share based payments 0.9 0.3 0.6 45.9 1.9 3.2 0.3 0.6 41.7 The weighted average number of shares in issue excludes treasury shares held by the Group, and shares held in trust for the LTIP and DSBP arrangements.
Year ended 2 July 2016 Restated No shares were bought back and cancelled by the Group in the period from 1 July 2017 to 6 September 2017.
Recognised Recognised in in other Recognised 11.
Dividends paid and proposed At 27 June income comprehensive directly in Transfer At 2 July Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in April and November.
2015 statement income equity categories 2016 m m m m m m 2017 2016 Accelerated capital allowances 29.6 1.2 28.4 m m Asset backed funding pension arrangement 6.5 1.8 8.3 Declared and paid during the year 6.3 Other temporary differences 5.4 0.8 0.1 Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Revaluation of land and buildings treated as deemed cost Final dividend for 2016: 67.52p per share 2015: 63.4p 28.9 27.2 on conversion to IFRS 15.4 2.1 13.3 Interim dividend for 2017: 30.17p per share 2016: 28.33p 12.9 12.2 Retirement benefit obligations 11.9 0.1 11.3 0.5 41.8 39.4 Cashflow hedges 2.1 4.9 2.8 Share based payments 0.5 1.4 0.9 2017 2016 13.4 0.5 34.2 2.2 45.9 m m Proposed for approval at the AGM not recognised as a liability as at 1 July 2017 The deferred tax included in the Group income statement is as follows: Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Restated Final dividend for 2017: 71.91p per share 2016: 67.52p 31.0 29.0 2017 2016 m m Payment of proposed dividends will not have any tax consequences for the Group.
0.4 Accelerated capital allowances 0.2 0.6 0.6 Revaluation 1.0 Retirement benefit obligations 0.1 2.3 Temporary differences arising on pension spreading 2.4 0.4 0.8 Other temporary differences 1.9 1.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.3 0.2 Adjustments in respect of opening deferred tax rate reduction 4.1 3.7 Deferred tax expense 1.9 2.2 The standard rate of UK corporation tax reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017.
com 133 132 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Property, plant and equipment The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All assets excluding freehold land are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment in note 2.
Long term Short term Freehold land leasehold land leasehold land Plant and and buildings and properties and properties Bus vehicles equipment Total m m m m m m Cost: At 27 June 2015 185.7 0.4 14.2 541.2 189.6 931.1 Additions 13.4 0.5 78.4 21.6 113.9 Acquisitions 1.2 1.2 Disposals 0.2 45.9 2.0 48.1 Transfer categories 2.1 2.1 At 2 July 2016 198.9 0.4 14.7 572.8 211.3 998.1 Additions 8.2 1.0 97.1 35.6 141.9 Acquisitions 4.0 4.5 0.2 8.7 Disposals 0.1 28.6 8.3 37.0 Transfer categories 1.7 1.7 Transfer of assets held for sale 1.7 1.7 Transfer of intangible assets 1.8 1.8 At 1 July 2017 209.4 0.4 15.6 647.5 235.3 1,108.2 Depreciation and impairment: At 27 June 2015 28.8 7.4 297.0 160.5 493.7 Charge for the year 3.3 1.4 42.3 8.2 55.2 Disposals 43.5 1.6 45.1 Transfer categories 0.8 0.8 At 2 July 2016 32.1 8.8 295.0 167.9 503.8 Charge for the year 1.1 1.4 50.0 12.9 65.4 Disposals 0.1 27.8 8.1 36.0 Impairment of assets 0.7 0.2 0.9 Transfer assets held for sale 0.8 0.8 Transfer of intangible assets 0.3 0.3 At 1 July 2017 33.1 10.1 317.2 172.6 533.0 Net book value: At 1 July 2017 176.3 0.4 5.5 330.3 62.7 575.2 At 2 July 2016 166.8 0.4 5.9 277.8 43.4 494.3 At 27 June 2015 156.9 0.4 6.8 244.2 29.1 437.4 The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: 2017 2016 m m Bus vehicles 0.7 2.7 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Intangible assets The Group holds significant investments in land and buildings, bus vehicles and plant and equipment, which form our tangible assets.
All The consolidated balance sheet contains significant intangible assets mainly in relation to goodwill, software, franchise bid costs and customer assets excluding freehold land are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For accounting policies see Property, plant and equipment contracts.
Goodwill, which arises when the Group acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of the net assets primarily in note 2. due to the synergies the Group expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Software is amortised over its expected useful life.
Franchise bid costs are amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
Customer contracts are amortised Long term Short term over the life of the contract.
Net book value: At 1 July 2017 176.3 0.4 5.5 330.3 62.7 575.2 Franchise bid costs At 2 July 2016 166.8 0.4 5.9 277.8 43.4 494.3 A part of the Groups activities is the process of bidding for and securing franchises to operate rail and bus services in the UK and overseas.
At 27 June 2015 156.9 0.4 6.8 244.2 29.1 437.4 Directly attributable, incremental costs incurred after achieving preferred bidder status or entering into a franchise extension are capitalised as an intangible asset and amortised over the life of the franchise franchise extension.
The net book value of leased assets and assets acquired under hire purchase contracts is: Rail franchise asset 2017 2016 m m This reflects the cost of the right to operate a rail franchise, and relates to the cost of the intangible asset acquired on the handover of the Bus vehicles 0.7 2.7 franchise assets relating to the Southeastern rail franchise.
The intangible asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the original life of the franchise.
Customer contracts This relates to the value attributed to customer contracts and relationships purchased as part of the Groups acquisitions.
The value is calculated based on the unexpired term of the contracts at the date of acquisition and is amortised over that period.
com 135 134 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Go South Coast 34.2 28.6 Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 Carousel 2.1 2.1 81.5 75.9 The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been extended over an appropriate period.
The directors feel that the extended period is justified because of the long term stability of the relevant income streams.
Growth has been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a terminal value using a growth rate of 2.0% which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term recurrent nature of the businesses.
The Groups weighted average cost of capital has been initially calculated as 4.6% 2016: 5.4%.
Given the current low weighted average cost of capital the calculation of value in use has been initially derived based on the internal rate of return that the Group uses to appraise investments, currently 8.0%, to identify any goodwill balances requiring further consideration and review.
The economic conditions that the cash-generating units operate in are considered similar enough, primarily being UK based, to use the same discount rate.
The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, employee costs and general overheads.
These assumptions are influenced by several internal and external factors.
The directors consider the assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and industry measures and forecasts.
A 0.5% increase in WACC or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely sensitivities that could impact recoverable amounts.
These sensitivities would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable amount, except for Konectbus a division of the East Anglian business where the estimated recoverable amount exceeds goodwill held of 3.6m by c. 1.0m.
An improvement to past levels of profitability at Konectbus is forecast following the current investment in fleet, management and other operational changes.
Whilst a 0.5% increase in WACC from 8.0% to 8.5% would not impair the 3.6m goodwill value, a revenue growth fall of 1.0% after the 3 year forecast period could impair the balance by 0.7m.
There has been investment in fleet and people in the period to support the growth forecast and the discount rate at 8.0% as noted above is considered conservative.
Furthermore reflecting that the property, plant and equipment associated with the business represents buses which can be either sold or deployed no wider impairment risks arise.
14. Business combinations This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and goodwill and Customer contracts in note 2.
Year ended 1 July 2017 On 3 February 2017, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, took control of Thamesdown Transport Limited from Swindon Borough Council.
Thamesdown services operate across Swindon and north Wiltshire with a fleet of 85 buses.
136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Intangible assets continued Net assets at date of acquisition: Total acquisitions Goodwill Provisional fair value to Group Goodwill acquired through acquisitions has been allocated to individual cash-generating units for impairment testing on the basis of the m Groups business operations.
The carrying value of goodwill is tested annually for impairment by cash-generating unit and is as follows: Property, plant and equipment 6.5 2017 2016 Inventories 0.3 m m Cash 0.5 Go South Coast 34.2 28.6 Deferred tax 0.5 Brighton & Hove 12.7 12.7 Trade and other receivables 1.5 Plymouth Citybus 13.0 13.0 Trade and other payables 1.5 Go-Ahead London 10.5 10.5 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1.7 Go North East 2.7 2.7 Net assets 5.1 Konectbus 3.6 3.6 Goodwill arising on acquisition 5.6 Thames Travel 2.7 2.7 Cash 10.7 Carousel 2.1 2.1 81.5 75.9 Total consideration 10.7 Interest bearing loans and borrowings comprise finance leases and hire purchase commitments.
The recoverable amount of goodwill has been determined based on a value in use calculation for each cash-generating unit, using cashflow projections based on financial budgets and forecasts approved by senior management covering a three year period which have then been Acquisition costs of 0.1m have been expensed through operating costs.
extended over an appropriate period.
Growth has been extrapolated forward from the end of the three year forecasts over a total period of ten years plus a From the date of acquisition in the period, the acquisition recorded an operating profit of less than 0.1m and revenue of 4.1m.
Had the terminal value using a growth rate of 2.0% which reflects the directors view of long term growth rates in each business, and the long term acquisition been completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been an increase of recurrent nature of the businesses.
0.5m and the impact on revenue would have been an increase of 9.9m.
Given the current low weighted average cost of On 4 October 2016, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group, acquired the Excelsior group of companies Excelsior capital the calculation of value in use has been initially derived based on the internal rate of return that the Group uses to appraise Coaches Limited, Excelsior Transport Limited and Excelsior Travel Limited for a cash consideration of 1.0m.
investments, currently 8.0%, to identify any goodwill balances requiring further consideration and review.
Net assets at date of acquisition: Total acquisitions The calculation of value in use for each cash-generating unit is most sensitive to the forecast operating cashflows, the discount rate and the Provisional fair value growth rate used to extrapolate cashflows beyond the budget period.
The operating cashflows are based on assumptions of revenue, employee to Group costs and general overheads.
The directors consider the m assumptions used to be consistent with the historical performance of each unit and to be realistically achievable in light of economic and Property, plant and equipment 2.2 industry measures and forecasts.
Intangible assets customer contracts 1.0 Deferred tax 0.1 A 0.5% increase in WACC or revenue growth falling by 1.0% are considered the most likely sensitivities that could impact recoverable amounts.
These sensitivities would not cause the carrying value of any of the businesses to exceed their recoverable amount, except for Konectbus Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2.1 a division of the East Anglian business where the estimated recoverable amount exceeds goodwill held of 3.6m by c. 1.0m.
An improvement Net assets 1.0 to past levels of profitability at Konectbus is forecast following the current investment in fleet, management and other operational changes.
Whilst a 0.5% increase in WACC from 8.0% to 8.5% would not impair the 3.6m goodwill value, a revenue growth fall of 1.0% after the 3 year Cash 1.0 forecast period could impair the balance by 0.7m.
There has been investment in fleet and people in the period to support the growth forecast Total consideration 1.0 and the discount rate at 8.0% as noted above is considered conservative.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings comprise finance leases and hire purchase commitments.
14. Business combinations Acquisition costs of less than 0.1m have been expensed through operating costs.
This note details acquisition transactions carried out in the current and prior periods.
For accounting policies see Business combinations and From the date of acquisition in the period, the acquisition recorded an operating loss of 0.1m and revenue of 1.2m.
Had the acquisition been goodwill and Customer contracts in note 2. completed on the first day of the financial period, the impact on the Groups operating profit would have been 0.1m and the impact on revenue would have been 1.6m.
Year ended 1 July 2017 On 3 February 2017, Go South Coast Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the group, took control of Thamesdown Transport Limited from 15.
Assets classified as held for sale Swindon Borough Council.
This note identifies any non-current assets or disposal groups that are held for sale.
The carrying amounts of these assets will be recovered principally through a sale rather than through continuing use.
For accounting policies see Non-current assets held for sale in note 2.
At 1 July 2017, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of 1.7m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and were included in the regional bus segment.
The Group expects to sell 1.7m within 12 months of them going onto the for sale list and being actively marketed.
The assets held for sale relate to land and buildings whereby offers have been made which management are currently assessing.
The value at each balance sheet date represents managements best estimate of their resale value less disposal costs.
During the year ended 1 July 2017, there were no sales of assets held for sale.
At 2 July 2016, assets held for sale, with a carrying value of 0.8m, related to property, plant and equipment available for sale, and were included in the regional bus segment.
com 137 136 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
Inventories Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see Inventories in note 2.
2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 18.9 18.3 The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to suppliers in advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
2017 2016 m m Current Trade receivables 147.5 178.1 Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 2.1 1.7 Trade receivables net 145.4 176.4 Other receivables 37.2 32.7 Prepayments 68.2 48.5 Accrued income 42.4 45.4 Receivable from central government 39.3 34.0 332.5 337.0 2017 2016 m m Non-current Other receivables 1.6 As at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables was as follows: Past due but Neither past not impaired due Less than 30 more than 120 Total nor impaired days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days days m m m m m m m 2017 145.4 130.8 4.9 1.9 3.3 1.2 3.3 2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8 Trade receivables at nominal value of 2.1m 2016: 1.7m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows: Total m At 2 July 2016 1.7 Charge for the year 0.7 Utilised 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 0.2 At 1 July 2017 2.1 As at 1 July 2017, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m 60-90 days 0.1 90-120 days More than 120 days 2.0 1.7 2.1 1.7 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 16.
Cash and cash equivalents Inventory primarily consists of vehicle spares and fuel and is presented net of allowances for obsolete products.
For accounting policies see The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to comply with DfT short term liquidity Inventories in note 2. requirements.
For accounting policies see Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Raw materials and consumables 18.9 18.3 Cash at bank and in hand 87.0 82.1 Cash and cash equivalents 503.2 554.2 The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the year is immaterial.
Trade and other receivables Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates.
Short term deposits are made for varying periods Trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed by principal contracting authorities and other customers, amounts paid to of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at the respective suppliers in advance, amounts receivable from central government and taxes receivable.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not materially different from book value.
Amounts held by rail companies included in cash at bank and on short term deposit can be distributed only with the agreement of the DfT, 2017 2016 normally up to the value of distributable reserves or based on a working capital formula.
As at 1 July 2017, balances amounting to 516.1m m m 2016: 562.3m were restricted.
Part of this amount is to cover deferred income for rail season tickets, which was 178.0m at 1 July 2017 Current 2016: 181.3m.
Trade and other payables Less: Provision for impairment of receivables 2.1 1.7 Trade receivables net 145.4 176.4 Trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts owed to suppliers that have been invoiced or accrued, deferred income and deferred season ticket income.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer and amounts owed to Other receivables 37.2 32.7 central government.
Prepayments 68.2 48.5 Accrued income 42.4 45.4 2017 2016 m m Receivable from central government 39.3 34.0 Current 332.5 337.0 Trade payables 266.0 262.0 Other taxes and social security costs 32.4 30.6 2017 2016 Other payables 77.3 67.9 m m Deferred season ticket income 178.0 181.3 Non-current Accruals 114.6 122.1 Other receivables 1.6 Deferred income 54.2 56.0 As at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016, the ageing analysis of trade receivables was as follows: Payable to central government 108.9 149.9 Government grants 5.2 2.7 Past due but Neither past not impaired 836.6 872.5 due Less than 30 more than 120 Total nor impaired days 30-60 days 60-90 days 90-120 days days m m m m m m m 2017 2016 2017 145.4 130.8 4.9 1.9 3.3 1.2 3.3 m m 2016 176.4 166.5 3.0 3.4 2.2 0.5 0.8 Non-current Government grants 1.0 4.3 Trade receivables at nominal value of 2.1m 2016: 1.7m were impaired and fully provided for.
Movements in the provision for impairment of 1.0 4.3 receivables were as follows: Total Terms and conditions of the above financial liabilities are as follows: m Trade payables are non-interest-bearing and are normally settled on 30 day terms At 2 July 2016 1.7 Other payables are non-interest-bearing and have varying terms of up to 12 months Charge for the year 0.7 Utilised 0.1 Unused amounts reversed 0.2 At 1 July 2017 2.1 As at 1 July 2017, the ageing analysis of impaired and fully provided for trade receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m 60-90 days 0.1 90-120 days More than 120 days 2.0 1.7 2.1 1.7 www.
com 139 138 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market bond.
For accounting policies see Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2.
Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: Year ended 1 July 2017 Current Non-current After one year After more Effective Within but not more than interest rate one year than five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-4 years 156.0 156.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.5 0.8 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-1 years 200.0 200.0 20m revolving credit facility 1.30 0-1 years 0.9 0.9 Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 4.96 0-5 years 0.9 2.0 0.1 3.0 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 201.5 157.5 0.1 359.1 Debt issue costs 0.3 0.5 0.8 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 201.8 158.0 0.1 359.9 Cash and short term deposits note 18 590.2 590.2 Net cash 388.4 158.0 0.1 230.3 Restricted cash 516.1 Adjusted net debt 285.8 Year ended 2 July 2016 Current Non-current After one year After more Effective Within but not more than interest rate one year than five years five years Total % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-5 years 113.0 113.0 Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.6 0.9 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-2 years 200.0 200.0 Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 0.3 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 312.4 312.4 Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 0.9 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 0.3 313.0 313.3 Cash and short term deposits note 18 636.3 636.3 Net cash 636.0 313.0 323.0 Restricted cash 562.3 Adjusted net debt 239.3 Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and cash equivalents.
The restricted cash can only be distributed with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to the value of revenue reserves or based on the working capital formula.
140 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 140 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 20.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Analysis of Group net cash Cash and cash Syndicated loan Hire purchase 200m 20m The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity requirements come from a range of committed bank facilities and a capital market equivalents facility finance leases sterling bond RCF Total bond.
For accounting policies see Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and Cash and cash equivalents in note 2. m m m m m m Net cash debt and interest-bearing loans and borrowings 27 June 2015 604.2 111.0 0.3 200.0 292.9 Cashflow 32.1 2.0 1.1 31.2 The net cash debt position comprises cash, short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and can be summarised as: On acquisition 1.1 1.1 Year ended 1 July 2017 2 July 2016 636.3 113.0 0.3 200.0 323.0 Current Non-current Cashflow 46.6 43.0 1.1 0.9 89.4 After one year After more On acquisition 0.5 3.8 3.3 Effective Within but not more than interest rate one year than five years five years Total 1 July 2017 590.2 156.0 3.0 200.0 0.9 230.3 % Maturity m m m m Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-4 years 156.0 156.0 Syndicated loan facility Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.5 0.8 On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The loan facility is unsecured and 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-1 years 200.0 200.0 interest is charged at LIBOR Margin, where the margin is dependent upon the gearing of the Group.
The facility had an initial maturity of July 2019, with two one-year extensions, the second of which was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the facility to July 2021 20m revolving credit facility 1.30 0-1 years 0.9 0.9 from that date.
Finance leases and HP commitments see note 21 4.96 0-5 years 0.9 2.0 0.1 3.0 As at 1 July 2017, 156.0m 2016: 113.0m of the facility was drawn down.
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 201.5 157.5 0.1 359.1 200m sterling bond Debt issue costs 0.3 0.5 0.8 On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017 with a coupon rate of 5.375%.
Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings gross of debt issue costs 201.8 158.0 0.1 359.9 Post year end, on 6 July 2017, the Group raised a 250m bond of 7 years maturing on 6 July 2024 with a coupon rate of 2.5%.
Cash and short term deposits note 18 590.2 590.2 20m revolving credit facility RCF Net cash 388.4 158.0 0.1 230.3 On 27 April 2017, the Groups subsidiary, Go-Ahead Verkehrgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH, entered into a 20m one year revolving credit facility.
The facility is unsecured and interest is charged at 1.3% plus EURIBOR.
Restricted cash 516.1 Adjusted net debt 285.8 Debt issue costs There are debt issue costs of 0.8m 2016: 0.9m on the syndicated loan facility.
Year ended 2 July 2016 Current Non-current The 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has debt issue costs of nil 2016: nil.
After one year After more The Group is subject to two covenants in relation to its borrowing facilities.
The covenants specify a maximum adjusted net debt to EBITDA and Effective Within but not more than interest rate one year than five years five years Total a minimum net interest cover.
At the year end and throughout the year, the Group has not been in breach of any bank covenants.
Finance lease and hire purchase commitments Syndicated loans see below 1.00 0-5 years 113.0 113.0 This note details finance lease and hire purchase commitments.
For accounting policies see Interest bearing loans and borrowings in note 2.
Debt issue costs on syndicated loans 0.3 0.6 0.9 200m sterling 7.5 year bond see below 5.38 0-2 years 200.0 200.0 The Group has finance leases and hire purchase contracts for bus vehicles and various items of plant and equipment.
These contracts have no Finance leases and HP commitments terms of renewal or purchase option escalation clauses.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, see note 21 8.89 0-1 years 0.3 0.3 together with the present value of the net minimum lease payments, are as follows: Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 312.4 312.4 2017 2016 Debt issue costs 0.3 0.6 0.9 Minimum Present value Minimum Present value payments of payments payments of payments Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings m m m m gross of debt issue costs 0.3 313.0 313.3 Within one year 0.9 0.9 0.3 0.3 Cash and short term deposits note 18 636.3 636.3 After one year but not more than five years 2.3 2.0 Net cash 636.0 313.0 323.0 Over five years 0.1 0.1 Total minimum lease payments 3.3 3.0 0.3 0.3 Restricted cash 562.3 Less amounts representing finance charges 0.3 Adjusted net debt 239.3 Present value of minimum lease payments 3.0 3.0 0.3 0.3 Restricted cash balances are amounts held by rail companies which are included in cash and cash equivalents.
com 141 140 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of the Group to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Financial risk factors and management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups activities, namely working capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel price and interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
At the year end, the Group did not hold any interest rate swaps.
It is, and has been throughout 2015 16 and 2016 17, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased for internal benefit.
The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Commodity price risk is managed via fuel derivatives.
Risks arising from these are explained in note 23.
Interest rate risk The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy toward cash deposits is to deposit cash short term on UK money markets.
Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods of time of up to 36 months.
The Group manages interest rate risk through a combination of fixed rate instruments and or interest rate derivatives.
During the years ended 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place.
The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a decrease in interest rates.
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised debt issue costs as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 is as follows: Average Within More than rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m m m Year ended 1 July 2017 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.00 156.0 156.0 20m revolving credit facility 1.30 0.9 0.9 Gross floating rate liabilities 0.9 156.0 156.9 Cash assets 0.31 590.2 590.2 Net floating rate assets liabilities 589.3 156.0 433.3 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 4.96 0.9 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.1 3.0 Net fixed rate liabilities 200.9 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.1 203.0 Year ended 2 July 2016 Floating rate assets liabilities Variable rate loans 1.00 113.0 113.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 113.0 113.0 Cash assets 0.55 636.3 636.3 Net floating rate assets liabilities 636.3 113.0 523.3 Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 8.89 0.3 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 200.3 The expected maturity of the financial assets and liabilities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
Interest on financial instruments classified as fixed rate is fixed until the maturity of the instrument.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the tables above are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
142 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 142 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Interest rate risk table This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as the exposure and sensitivity of The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the the Group to interest rate, liquidity, foreign exchange and credit risk, and the policies in place to monitor and manage these risks.
Groups profit before tax through the impact on floating rate borrowings based on recent historic changes.
Effect on Financial risk factors and management Increase profit before Effect on The Groups principal financial instruments comprise bank loans, a sterling bond, hire purchase and finance lease contracts, and cash and decrease in tax equity short term deposits.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to provide an appropriate level of net debt to fund the Groups basis points m m activities, namely working capital, fixed asset expenditure, acquisitions and dividends.
The Group has various other financial instruments such 2017 as trade receivables and trade payables, which arise directly from its operations.
GBP 50.0 0.8 0.8 GBP 50.0 0.8 0.8 It is Group policy to enter into derivative transactions, primarily fuel swaps and interest rate swaps.
The purpose of these is to manage the fuel 2016 price and interest rate risks arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 GBP 50.0 0.5 0.5 It is, and has been throughout 2015 16 and 2016 17, the Groups policy that no trading in derivatives shall be undertaken and derivatives are only purchased for internal benefit.
Liquidity risk The main financial risks arising from the Groups activities are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Commodity price risk is managed The Group has in place a 280.0m syndicated loan facility which allows the Group to maintain liquidity within the desired gearing range.
On 16 July 2014, the Group re-financed and entered into a 280.0m five year syndicated loan facility, with two one-year extensions replacing the Interest rate risk previous 275.0m five year syndicated loan facility.
The second of the one-year extensions was agreed on 20 June 2016, extending the maturity of the current facility to July 2021.
The Group borrows and deposits funds and is exposed to changes in interest rates.
Interest payable on senior bank borrowings can be based on re-fixing the rate of interest over short periods On 24 March 2010, the Group raised a 200m bond of 7.5 years maturing on 29 September 2017.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest of time of up to 36 months.
rates are detailed in note 20.
During the years ended On 27 April 2017, the Groups subsidiary, Go-Ahead Verkehrgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH, entered into a 20m one year revolving credit 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 the Group had no interest rate swaps in place.
The Group has net cash and hence the present adverse risk is a facility.
The level of drawdown and prevailing interest rates are detailed in note 20. decrease in interest rates.
Post year end, on 6 July 2017, the Group raised a 250m bond which will replace the 200m bond.
The maturity and interest rate profile of the financial assets and liabilities of the Group excluding unamortised debt issue costs as at 1 July Available liquidity as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 was as follows: 2017 and 2 July 2016 is as follows: 2017 2016 Average Within More than m m rate 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total % m m m m m m m Five year syndicated facility 2021 280.0 280.0 Year ended 1 July 2017 200m 7.5 year 5.375% sterling bond 2017 200.0 200.0 Floating rate assets liabilities 20m revolving credit facility 17.5 Variable rate loans 1.00 156.0 156.0 Total core facilities 497.5 480.0 20m revolving credit facility 1.30 0.9 0.9 Amount drawn down at 1 July 2017 356.9 313.0 Gross floating rate liabilities 0.9 156.0 156.9 Headroom 140.6 167.0 Cash assets 0.31 590.2 590.2 The Groups bus vehicles can be financed by hire purchase or finance lease arrangements, or term loans at fixed rates of interest over two to Net floating rate assets liabilities 589.3 156.0 433.3 five year primary borrowing periods.
This provides a regular inflow of funding to cover expenditure as it arises.
Fixed rate liabilities 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Foreign currency risk Obligations under finance lease and hire The Group has foreign exchange exposure in respect of cashflow commitments to both its operations in Germany and in Singapore, of which purchase contracts 4.96 0.9 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.1 3.0 neither are currently material to the Group.
Net fixed rate liabilities 200.9 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.1 203.0 Credit risk The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables see note 17 and cash deposits see note 18.
The maximum credit risk Year ended 2 July 2016 exposure of the Group comprises the amounts presented in the balance sheet, which are stated net of provisions for doubtful debt.
A provision Floating rate assets liabilities is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of future Variable rate loans 1.00 113.0 113.0 cashflows.
Gross floating rate liabilities 113.0 113.0 The majority of the Groups receivables are with public or quasi-public bodies such as the DfT.
The Group does not consider these Cash assets 0.55 636.3 636.3 counterparties to be a significant credit risk.
Risk of exposure to non-return of cash on deposit is managed through a treasury policy of holding Net floating rate assets liabilities 636.3 113.0 523.3 deposits with banks rated Aor A3 or above by at least one of the credit rating agencies.
The treasury policy outlines the maximum level of Fixed rate liabilities deposit that can be placed with any one given financial institution.
200m sterling 7.5 year bond 5.38 200.0 200.0 Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 8.89 0.3 0.3 Net fixed rate liabilities 0.3 200.0 200.3 The expected maturity of the financial assets and liabilities in the table above is the same as the contractual maturity of the financial assets and liabilities.
com 143 142 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Contractual payments The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 based on contractual undiscounted payments.
Year ended 1 July 2017 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.3 3.7 162.4 0.1 166.5 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 210.7 210.7 Other financial liabilities 2.0 5.5 3.0 10.5 Trade and other payables 18.2 458.5 84.3 561.0 18.2 671.5 93.5 165.4 0.1 948.7 Year ended 2 July 2016 Less than More than On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.9 116.9 118.0 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.7 202.7 213.4 Other financial liabilities 2.4 7.9 4.1 14.4 Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 594.1 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 939.9 Managing capital The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions.
Details of the issued capital and reserves are shown in note 25.
Details of interest-bearing loans and borrowings are shown in note 20.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016.
The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA is within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 1 July 2017.
The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the year no specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at 1 July 2017, was 1.30x 2016 restated: 1.08x.
Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Operating leases The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts to mitigate the risk of ownership at the end of the contract.
This results in 1.5m 2016: 1.1m of cost within operating charges which would otherwise have been charged to interest.
The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of 30.2m 2016: 24.6m.
The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.
144 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 144 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset.
The Group uses energy derivatives to hedge its Contractual payments risks associated with fuel price fluctuations.
Financial instruments held by the Group include fuel hedge derivatives and finance lease hire The tables below summarise the maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 based on contractual purchase contracts.
For accounting policies see Financial assets and derivatives, Fair value measurement and Interest bearing loans and undiscounted payments.
Fair values Less than More than The fair values of the Groups financial instruments carried in the financial statements have been reviewed as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total and are as follows: m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.3 3.7 162.4 0.1 166.5 2017 2016 m m 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 210.7 210.7 Non-current assets 0.2 Other financial liabilities 2.0 5.5 3.0 10.5 Current assets 0.2 0.6 Trade and other payables 18.2 458.5 84.3 561.0 0.2 0.8 18.2 671.5 93.5 165.4 0.1 948.7 Current liabilities 7.3 10.3 Year ended 2 July 2016 Non-current liabilities 3.0 4.1 Less than More than 10.3 14.4 On demand 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years 5 years Total Net financial derivatives 10.1 13.6 m m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 0.2 0.9 116.9 118.0 Year ended 1 July 2017 200m sterling 7.5 year bond 10.7 202.7 213.4 Held for Other financial liabilities 2.4 7.9 4.1 14.4 trading Fair Amortised value through Total Trade and other payables 24.0 483.4 86.7 594.1 cost profit and loss carrying value Fair value 24.0 496.7 95.5 323.7 939.9 m m m m Fuel price derivatives 10.1 10.1 10.1 Managing capital Net financial derivatives 10.1 10.1 10.1 The primary objective of the Groups capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 3.0 3.0 3.0 to support its business and maximise shareholder value.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of 3.0 10.1 13.1 13.1 changes in economic conditions.
Year ended 2 July 2016 To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue Held for trading new shares.
Fair value through profit Total The Group applies the primary objective by managing its capital structure such that net debt adjusted to exclude restricted cash to EBITDA is Amortised cost and loss carrying value Fair value within a range which retains an investment grade debt rating of at least BBB-.
m m m m Fuel price derivatives 13.6 13.6 13.6 In the year ended 2 July 2011, the Group obtained investment grade long term credit ratings from Standard & Poors and Moodys as follows: Net financial derivatives 13.6 13.6 13.6 Standard & Poors BBBStable outlook Obligations under finance lease and hire purchase contracts 0.3 0.3 0.3 Moodys Baa3 Stable outlook 0.3 13.6 13.9 13.9 Those ratings have been maintained in the year ended 1 July 2017.
The fair value of all other assets and liabilities in notes 17, 19 and 20 is not significantly different from their carrying amount, with the exception of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond which has a fair value of 202.1m 2016: 209.5m but is carried at its amortised cost of 200.0m The Groups policy is to maintain an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of 1.5x to 2.5x.
The Groups calculation of adjusted net debt is 2016: 200.0m.
The fair value of the 200m sterling 7.5 year bond has been determined by reference to the price available from the market on set out in note 20 and includes cash and short term deposits, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, and excludes restricted cash.
During the which the bond is traded.
The fuel price derivatives were valued externally by the respective banks by comparison with the market fuel price for year no specific actions were required to be taken by the Group with regard to this ratio or to ensure the investment grade debt rating.
Our primary financial covenant under the 2021 syndicated loan facility is an adjusted net debt to EBITDA ratio of not more than 3.5x and at All other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cashflows at prevailing interest rates.
The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Operating profit before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Operating leases Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly The Group uses operating leases for bus and coach purchases across the Group primarily where the vehicles service specific contracts or indirectly to mitigate the risk of ownership at the end of the contract.
The Group holds operating leases for its bus fleet with an asset capital value of 30.2m Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data 2016: 24.6m.
As at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016, the Group has used a level 2 valuation technique to determine the fair value of the fuel price derivatives.
The The majority of assets in the rail division are financed by operating leases, in particular rolling stock.
valuations are based on the external Mark-to-Market MtM valuations provided by the derivative providers and are prepared in accordance with the providers own internal models and calculation methods based upon well recognized financial principles, relevant current market conditions and reasonable estimates about relevant future market conditions.
During the year ended 1 July 2017, there were no transfers between valuation levels.
com 145 144 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments continued b.
Hedging activities Fuel derivatives The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
Bus As at 1 July 2017 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 282 million litres for the four years ending June 2021.
The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.
As at 1 July 2017 the amounts hedged are as follows: 2018 2019 2020 2021 100% 70% 40% 20% Actual percentage hedged 124 85 49 24 Litres hedged million 34.7 32.1 33.0 32.2 Price pence per litre Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2017 market price.
Rail As at 1 July 2017 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 4 million litres for the 2018 financial year, representing the anticipated fuel usage in London Midland.
The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was 2.6m credit net of tax 2016: 9.2m credit net of tax taken through other comprehensive income.
Provisions A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore often estimated.
The main provisions we hold are in relation to uninsured claims and dilapidation provisions relating to franchise commitments.
For accounting policies see Provisions and Uninsured liabilities in note 2.
Franchise Uninsured commitments claims Other Total m m m m At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7 Provided after discounting 8.8 55.4 1.7 65.9 Utilised 6.3 48.8 55.1 Released 9.7 4.5 0.3 14.5 Unwinding of discounting 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 1 July 2017 53.0 44.3 4.9 102.2 2017 2016 m m Current 40.3 32.0 Non-current 61.9 73.7 102.2 105.7 Franchise commitments comprise 50.5m 2016: 57.7m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, and 2.5m 2016: 2.4m provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
Of the dilapidations provisions, 21.2m 2016: 12.1m are classified as current.
All of the 2.5m 2016: 2.4m provision relating to other franchise commitments is classified as current.
During the year 9.7m 2016: 3.4m of provisions previously provided were released following the successful renegotiation of certain contract conditions.
The dilapidations will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract over the next three years.
The provisions are based on managements assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by valuations from professional external advisors.
Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Group to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Group by the insurer.
Of the uninsured claims, 13.2m 2016: 16.0m are classified as current and 31.1m 2016: 26.1m are classified as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually.
It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years.
Both the estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of claims received, as well as the estimate of settlements made in respect of incidents not yet reported, are based on historic trends which can alter over time reflecting the length of time some matters can take to be resolved.
No material changes to carrying values are expected within the next 12 months.
146 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 146 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23.
Derivatives and financial instruments continued 24.
Provisions continued Within other provisions, 4.6m 2016: 3.2m relates to dilapidations in the bus division of which 3.1m 2016: 1.2m are classified as current, b.
Hedging activities and 1.5m 2016: 2.0m are classified as non-current.
It is expected that the dilapidations will be incurred within two to five years.
Reflecting the nature of the judgements associated with the provisioning for dilapidations it is not practicable to provide further sensitivity analysis of the Fuel derivatives extent by which these amounts could change in the next financial year.
The remaining other current provision of 0.3m 2016: 0.3m relates to The Group is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage.
The Group closely monitors fuel prices and uses fuel derivatives to completion claims regarding the sale of our aviation business.
hedge its exposure to increases in fuel prices, when it deems this to be appropriate.
Issued capital and reserves As at 1 July 2017 the Group had derivatives against bus fuel of 282 million litres for the four years ending June 2021.
The fair value of the asset Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
For accounting policies see Treasury shares in note 2. or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet.
The value has been generated since the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to Allotted, called up and fully paid the movement in market fuel prices.
2017 2016 Millions m Millions m As at 1 July 2017 the amounts hedged are as follows: As at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 47.0 4.7 46.9 4.7 2018 2019 2020 2021 100% 70% 40% 20% Actual percentage hedged The Group has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income and have a par value of 10p per share.
124 85 49 24 Litres hedged million Share capital 34.7 32.1 33.0 32.2 Price pence per litre Share capital represents proceeds on issue of the Groups equity, both nominal value and share premium.
Assuming consistent usage and that hedging is completed at June 2017 market price.
Reserve for own shares Rail The reserve for own shares is in respect of 4,077,487 ordinary shares 8.7% of share capital, of which 175,247 are held for LTIP and DSBP As at 1 July 2017 the Group had derivatives against rail fuel of 4 million litres for the 2018 financial year, representing the anticipated fuel arrangements.
The remaining shares were purchased in order to enhance shareholders returns and are being held as treasury shares for future issue in appropriate circumstances.
During the year ended 1 July 2017 the Group has repurchased 121,084 shares 2016: 172,964 shares purchased.
The movement during the year on the hedging reserve was 2.6m credit net of tax 2016: 9.2m credit net of tax taken through other The Group has not cancelled any shares during the year 2016: no shares cancelled.
Provisions The share premium reserve represents the premium on shares that have been issued to fund or part fund acquisitions made by the Group.
A provision is a liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and This treatment is in line with Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006. is therefore often estimated.
Hedging reserve Franchise Uninsured The hedging reserve records the movement in value of fuel price derivatives, offset by any movements recognised directly in equity.
commitments claims Other Total m m m m Capital redemption reserve At 2 July 2016 60.1 42.1 3.5 105.7 The redemption reserve reflects the nominal value of cancelled shares.
Provided after discounting 8.8 55.4 1.7 65.9 Utilised 6.3 48.8 55.1 Released 9.7 4.5 0.3 14.5 Unwinding of discounting 0.1 0.1 0.2 At 1 July 2017 53.0 44.3 4.9 102.2 2017 2016 m m Current 40.3 32.0 Non-current 61.9 73.7 102.2 105.7 Franchise commitments comprise 50.5m 2016: 57.7m dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and stations across our three active rail franchises, and 2.5m 2016: 2.4m provisions relating to other franchise commitments.
com 147 146 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Commitments A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure assets.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the supplier.
Capital commitments 2017 2016 m m Contracted for but not provided acquisition of property, plant and equipment 45.7 78.3 Operating lease commitments Group as lessee The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
Renewals are at the option of the lessee.
There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.
The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they lease rolling stock from rolling stock operating companies, and agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 were as follows: As at 1 July 2017 Bus vehicles Rail rolling Rail access and other Bus property stock charges Rail other Total m m m m m m Within one year 12.7 1.5 584.0 387.4 156.6 1,142.2 In the second to fifth years inclusive 28.3 5.4 1,389.2 183.0 334.2 1,940.1 Over five years 5.0 163.9 168.9 41.0 11.9 2,137.1 570.4 490.8 3,251.2 As at 2 July 2016 Rail rolling Rail access Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other Total m m m m m m Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7 1,347.5 In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8 3,653.2 Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4 178.8 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9 5,179.5 Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The Groups rail operating companies sub lease access to stations and depots to other commercial organisations.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 Land and Other rail Land and Other rail buildings agreements buildings agreements m m m m Within one year 2.9 9.3 3.5 9.5 In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 51.2 2.5 45.6 Over five years 2.6 3.1 60.5 6.0 57.7 Performance bonds The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 76.9m 2016: 76.2m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2016: 36.3m, and season ticket bonds of 226.2m 2016: 227.1m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who have issued certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
The Group has a bond of $4.2m SGD 2016: $10.9m SGD to the Land Transport Authority LTA of Singapore in support of the Groups Singapore bus operations.
At the year-end exchange rate this equates to 2.4m 2016: 6.1m.
148 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 148 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26.
Retirement benefit obligations A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to operating leases and agreements to procure The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and a workplace saving scheme for our employees.
We also administer a defined assets.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated financial statements as we have not yet received the goods or services from the benefit pension scheme, which is closed to new entrants and future accruals.
The train operating companies participate in the Rail Pension supplier.
Scheme, a defined benefit scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant franchise.
For accounting policies see Retirement benefits in note 2.
Capital commitments Retirement benefit obligations consist of the following: 2017 2016 m m 2017 2016 Contracted for but not provided acquisition of property, plant and equipment 45.7 78.3 Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total m m m m m m Operating lease commitments Group as lessee Pre-tax pension scheme liabilities 20.9 20.9 2.7 2.7 The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and other items.
Restated 2017 2016 The Groups train operating companies hold agreements under which they lease rolling stock from rolling stock operating companies, and Bus Rail Total Bus Rail Total agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure track, stations and depots.
m m m m m m Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 were as follows: Remeasurement gains losses due to: Experience on benefit obligations 8.0 9.7 17.7 68.8 0.4 68.4 As at 1 July 2017 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 0.1 10.6 10.6 Bus vehicles Rail rolling Rail access Changes in financial assumptions 52.8 193.5 246.3 102.1 184.0 286.1 and other Bus property stock charges Rail other Total m m m m m m Salary cap introduction 48.1 48.1 Within one year 12.7 1.5 584.0 387.4 156.6 1,142.2 Return on assets greater than discount rate 20.7 128.8 149.5 99.4 102.2 201.6 In the second to fifth years inclusive 28.3 5.4 1,389.2 183.0 334.2 1,940.1 Franchise adjustment movement 55.0 55.0 34.1 34.1 Over five years 5.0 163.9 168.9 Remeasurement losses gains on defined benefit 41.0 11.9 2,137.1 570.4 490.8 3,251.2 pension plans 24.2 24.2 55.5 55.5 Bus schemes As at 2 July 2016 Rail rolling Rail access The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan Bus vehicles Bus property stock charges Rail other Total m m m m m m For the majority of bus employees, the Group operates one main pension scheme, The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Go-Ahead Plan, Within one year 10.6 0.6 525.6 608.0 202.7 1,347.5 which consists of a funded defined benefit scheme and a defined contribution section as follows.
In the second to fifth years inclusive 12.3 3.0 1,801.2 1,264.9 571.8 3,653.2 The defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is not contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme.
It is now closed to new Over five years 2.8 2.6 86.7 57.3 29.4 178.8 entrants and has been replaced by a workplace saving scheme, which is also a defined contribution pension scheme.
The expense recognised 25.7 6.2 2,413.5 1,930.2 803.9 5,179.5 for the defined contribution section of the Go-Ahead Plan is 9.6m 2016: 9.9m, being the contributions paid and payable.
The expense recognised for the workplace saving scheme is 2.9m 2016: 2.8m being the contributions paid and payable.
Operating lease commitments Group as lessor The defined benefit section of the Go-Ahead Plan is contracted-out of the State Second Pension Scheme and provides benefits based on a The Groups rail operating companies sub lease access to stations and depots to other commercial organisations.
The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.
Contributions to this section are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
The defined benefit section of The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan has been Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 were as follows: closed to new entrants and closed to future accrual.
2017 2016 Land and Other rail Land and Other rail The Go-Ahead Plan is a plan for related companies within the Group where risks are shared.
The overall costs of the Go-Ahead Plan have been buildings agreements buildings agreements recognised in the Groups financial statements according to IAS 19 revised.
Each of the participating companies accounts on the basis of m m m m contributions paid by that company.
The Group accounts for the difference between the aggregate IAS 19 revised cost of the scheme and the Within one year 2.9 9.3 3.5 9.5 aggregate contributions paid.
In the second to fifth years inclusive 0.2 51.2 2.5 45.6 The Go-Ahead Plan is governed by a Trustee Company and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
Over five years 2.6 This regulatory framework requires the Trustees of the Go-Ahead Plan and the Group to agree upon the assumptions underlying the funding 3.1 60.5 6.0 57.7 target, and the necessary contributions as part of each triennial valuation.
The last actuarial valuation of the Go-Ahead Plan had an effective date of 31 March 2015.
Performance bonds The investment strategy of the Go-Ahead Plan, which aims to meet liabilities as they fall due, is to invest plan assets in a mix of equities, other The Group has provided bank guaranteed performance bonds of 76.9m 2016: 76.2m, a loan guarantee bond of 36.3m 2016: 36.3m, and return seeking assets and liability driven investments to maximise the return on plan assets and minimise risks associated with lower than season ticket bonds of 226.2m 2016: 227.1m to the DfT in support of the Groups rail franchise operations.
expected returns on plan assets.
Trustees are required to regularly review investment strategy.
To support subsidiary companies in their normal course of business, the Group has indemnified certain banks and insurance companies who Other pension plans have issued certain performance bonds and a letter of credit.
Some employees of Plymouth Citybus have entitlement to a Devon County Council defined benefit plan.
This scheme is externally funded and is The Group has a bond of $4.2m SGD 2016: $10.9m SGD to the Land Transport Authority LTA of Singapore in support of the Groups now closed to new entrants.
Contributions to the scheme are assessed in accordance with the advice of an independent qualified actuary.
com 149 148 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Summary of bus schemes year end assumptions 2017 2016 % % Retail price index inflation 3.3 2.9 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 1.9 Discount rate 2.6 2.8 Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 1.9 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
2017 2016 Years Years Pensioner 21 21 Non-pensioner 22 22 Sensitivity analysis In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
In isolation, the following adjustments would adjust the pension deficit as shown.
2017 2016 Pension deficit Pension deficit % % Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 1.7 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5 Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6 The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods.
The use of 0.1% and 1 year in the sensitivity analysis is considered to be a reasonable illustrative approximation of possible changes, as these variations can regularly arise.
Maturity profile of bus schemes defined benefit obligation The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 1 July 2017.
150 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 150 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2017 2016 Summary of bus schemes year end assumptions m m 2017 2016 Employers share of pension scheme: % % Liabilities at the end of the year 805.5 765.8 Retail price index inflation 3.3 2.9 Assets at fair value 784.6 763.1 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 1.9 Pension scheme liability 20.9 2.7 Discount rate 2.6 2.8 Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Pension cost for the financial year Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.0 1.9 2017 2016 m m The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
Service cost 0.1 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used Administration costs 1.6 1.8 in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
Settlement gain 1.2 0.5 2017 2016 Interest cost on net liabilities 2.1 Years Years Total pension costs 0.4 3.5 Pensioner 21 21 The 1.2m 2016: 0.5m settlement gain represents gains made by the pension scheme in respect of the pension increase exchange exercise Non-pensioner 22 22 undertaken in the current and prior year.
Sensitivity analysis Analysis of the change in the pension scheme liabilities over the financial year In making the valuation, the above assumptions have been used.
For bus pension schemes, the following is an approximate sensitivity analysis 2017 2016 of the impact of the change in the key assumptions.
m m Pension scheme liabilities at start of year 765.8 718.7 2017 2016 Pension deficit Pension deficit Service cost 0.1 % % Interest cost 20.7 26.4 Discount rate increase of 0.1% 1.7 1.7 Settlement gain 1.2 0.5 Price inflation increase of 0.1% 1.5 1.5 Remeasurement gains losses due to: Rate of increase in salaries n a n a Experience on benefit obligations 8.0 68.8 Rate of increase of pensions in payment increase of 0.1% 0.9 0.9 Changes in demographic assumptions 0.1 10.6 Increase in life expectancy of pensioners or non-pensioners by 1 year 3.6 3.6 Changes in financial assumptions 52.8 102.1 Benefits paid 24.5 22.8 The sensitivity analysis presented above has been calculated using approximate methods.
Pension scheme liabilities at end of year 805.5 765.8 Maturity profile of bus schemes defined benefit obligation Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year The following tables shows the expected future benefit payments of the plan at 1 July 2017.
2017 2016 m m 2017 763.1 Fair value of assets at start of year 659.2 m 20.7 June 2018 24.2 Interest income of plan assets 24.3 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 20.7 99.4 June 2019 24.8 Actuarial gain on assets 0.3 June 2020 25.3 Administration costs 1.6 1.8 June 2021 25.9 Group contributions 6.5 4.8 June 2022 26.5 Benefits paid 24.5 22.8 June 2023 to June 2027 141.5 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 784.6 763.1 Category of assets at the year end Estimated contributions for future 2017 2016 m m % m % Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2018 6.5 Equities 306.3 39.1 275.1 36.0 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2018 Bonds 15.4 2.0 16.5 2.2 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2018 6.5 Property 43.5 5.5 69.6 9.1 Liability driven investing portfolio 341.4 43.5 392.2 51.4 Cash other 78.0 9.9 9.7 1.3 784.6 100.0 763.1 100.0 All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore quoted in active markets.
com 151 150 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Rail schemes Full details of the change in accounting policy for this scheme is provided in note 3.
The Railways Pension Scheme RPS The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is a shared costs scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
The RPS sections are all open to new entrants and the assets and liabilities of each companys section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes.
Changes in financial assumptions includes the effect of changes in the salary cap agreed to offset additional national insurance costs as a result of the schemes no longer opting out.
British Railways Additional Superannuation Scheme BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of 0.6m 2016: 0.7m were paid in the year.
All pension obligations to the RPS have to date ceased on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the obligations recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
However, in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
On entering into a franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to meet the schedule of contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the franchise contract over the period of the franchise.
The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that could arise from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group will not be required to fund or benefit from.
Summary of year end assumptions 2017 2016 % % Retail price index inflation 3.3 2.9 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 1.9 Discount rate 2.6 2.8 Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 3.1 Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.3 1.9 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
2017 2016 Years Years Pensioner 22 22 Non-pensioner 24 24 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at 31 December 2013.
Sensitivity analysis Due to the nature of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small movements in any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis.
152 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 152 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Category of assets at the year end 2017 2016 Rail schemes m % m % Full details of the change in accounting policy for this scheme is provided in note 3.
Equities 2,154.2 96.8 1,907.6 96.5 The Railways Pension Scheme RPS Property 69.0 3.1 67.2 3.4 The majority of employees in our train operating companies are members of sections of the RPS, a funded defined benefit scheme.
The RPS is Cash 2.2 0.1 2.0 0.1 a shared costs scheme, with assets and liabilities split 60% 40% between the franchise holder employee respectively.
The RPS sections are all 2,225.4 100.0 1,976.8 100.0 open to new entrants and the assets and liabilities of each companys section are separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes.
All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and therefore quoted in active markets.
Funding position of the Groups pension arrangements 2017 2016 British Railways Additional Superannuation Scheme BRASS matching AVC Group contributions of 0.6m 2016: 0.7m were paid in the year.
m m All pension obligations to the RPS have to date ceased on expiry of the franchises without cash or other settlement, and therefore the Employers 60% share of pension scheme: obligations recognised on the balance sheet under IAS 19 revised are only those that are expected to be funded during the franchise term.
Liabilities at the end of the year 3,010.9 2,625.8 However, in spite of our past experience and that of other train operating companies proving otherwise, our legal obligations are not restricted.
Assets at fair value 2,225.4 1,976.8 On entering into a franchise, the operator becomes the designated employer for the term of the contract and under the RPS rules is obliged to Gross deficit 785.5 649.0 meet the schedule of contributions agreed with the scheme trustees and actuaries, in respect of which no funding cap is set out in the Franchise adjustment 785.5 649.0 franchise contract over the period of the franchise.
Pension scheme liability The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.
Pension cost for the financial year The total surplus or deficit recorded is adjusted by way of a franchise adjustment, which includes an assessment of surpluses or deficits that Restated 2017 2016 could arise from future contributions, and is that portion of the deficit or surplus projected to exist at the end of the franchise which the Group m m will not be required to fund or benefit from.
Service cost 92.6 85.5 Summary of year end assumptions Administration costs 7.2 3.9 2017 2016 Franchise adjustment to current period costs 62.8 45.2 % % Interest cost on net liabilities 18.7 21.2 Retail price index inflation 3.3 2.9 Interest on franchise adjustments 18.7 21.2 Consumer price index inflation 2.3 1.9 Pension cost 37.0 44.2 Discount rate 2.6 2.8 Rate of increase in salaries 3.5 3.1 Analysis of the change in the employers 60% share of pension scheme liabilities over the financial year Rate of increase of pensions in payment and deferred pension 2.3 1.9 Restated 2017 2016 The discount rate is based on the anticipated return of AA rated corporate bonds with a term matching the maturity of the scheme liabilities.
m m Pension scheme liabilities less members share 40% of the deficit at start of year 2,625.8 2,290.4 The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity.
The table below shows the life expectancy assumptions used Franchise adjustment 100% 649.0 548.4 in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of each pension scheme at age 65.
1,976.8 1,742.0 2017 2016 Years Years Liability movement for members share of assets 40% 126.4 119.9 Pensioner 22 22 Service cost 60% 92.6 85.5 Non-pensioner 24 24 Interest cost 60% 51.1 60.6 Interest on franchise adjustment 100% 18.7 21.2 The mortality assumptions adopted as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016 are based on the results of the latest funding valuation as at Franchise adjustment to current period costs 100% 62.8 45.2 31 December 2013.
Remeasurement losses gains due to: Sensitivity analysis Experience on benefit obligations 60% 9.7 0.4 Due to the nature of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is not sensitive to small Changes in financial assumptions 60% 193.6 184.0 movements in any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative sensitivity analysis.
Salary cap introduction 60% 48.1 Benefits paid 100% 68.9 66.9 Franchise adjustment movement 100% 55.0 34.2 2,225.4 1,976.8 Franchise adjustment 100% 785.5 649.0 Pension scheme liabilities less members share 40% of the deficit at end of year 3,010.9 2,625.8 www.
com 153 152 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year 2017 2016 m m Fair value of assets at start of year 100% 1,976.8 1,742.0 Interest income of plan assets 60% 32.5 39.3 Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 60% 128.8 102.2 Administration costs 100% 12.0 6.6 Group contributions 100% 36.4 43.5 Benefits paid 100% 68.9 66.9 Members share of movement of assets 40% 131.8 123.3 Fair value of plan assets at end of year 100% 2,225.4 1,976.8 Estimated contributions for future m Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2018 32.9 Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2018 22.1 Estimated total contributions in financial year 2018 55.0 Franchise adjustment The effect of the franchise adjustment on the financial statements is provided below.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Balance sheet Defined benefit pension plan 785.5 649.0 Deferred tax asset 133.5 116.8 652.0 532.2 Other comprehensive income Remeasurement gains 55.0 34.1 Tax on remeasurement gains 9.4 6.1 45.6 28.0 Income statement Franchise adjustment to current period costs 62.8 45.2 Interest on franchise adjustments 18.7 21.2 Deferred tax charge 13.9 12.0 67.6 54.4 154 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 154 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Risks associated with defined benefit plans Analysis of the change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year Rail schemes 2017 2016 Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accrual, the risks posed by the RPS are limited, as under the franchise arrangements, the m m train operating companies are not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise.
As such, there is limited short term cashflow Fair value of assets at start of year 100% 1,976.8 1,742.0 risk within this business and if agreed would also be proportionately borne by the employees as well as the Group.
Interest income of plan assets 60% 32.5 39.3 Bus schemes Remeasurement gains due to return on assets greater than discount rate 60% 128.8 102.2 The number of employees in defined benefit plans is reducing, as these plans are closed to new entrants, and in the case of The Go-Ahead Administration costs 100% 12.0 6.6 Group Pension Plan, closed to future accrual.
Group contributions 100% 36.4 43.5 Benefits paid 100% 68.9 66.9 The key risks relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate them are as follows: Members share of movement of assets 40% 131.8 123.3 Risk Description Mitigation Fair value of plan assets at end of year 100% 2,225.4 1,976.8 Asset volatility The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with Asset liability modelling has been undertaken recently in reference to bond yields with maturity profiles matching all significant plans to ensure that any risks taken are Estimated contributions for future pension maturity: if assets underperform this yield, this will rewarded and that we have a balance of risk seeking and m create a deficit.
Most of the defined benefit arrangements liability driven investments.
Estimated Group contributions in financial year 2018 32.9 hold a proportion of return-seeking assets equities, diversified growth funds and global absolute return funds, Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2018 22.1 and to offset the additional risk, hold a proportion in liability Estimated total contributions in financial year 2018 55.0 driven investments, which should reduce volatility.
Inflation risk A significant proportion of the UK benefit obligations are The business has some inflation linking in its revenue Franchise adjustment linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher streams, which helps to offset this risk.
The effect of the franchise adjustment on the financial statements is provided below.
Restated Life expectancy The majority of the Schemes obligations are to provide The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual 2017 2016 benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life reducing exposure to increases in life expectancy risk.
m m expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities.
Balance sheet Legislative risk Future legislative changes are uncertain.
In the past these The Group final salary scheme has closed to future accrual, Defined benefit pension plan 785.5 649.0 have led to increases in obligations, introducing pension reducing risk to legislative change.
The Group takes Deferred tax asset 133.5 116.8 increases, and vesting of deferred pensions, or reduced professional advice to keep abreast of legislative changes.
652.0 532.2 investment return through the ability to reclaim Advance Corporation Tax.
The UK government has legislated to end Other comprehensive income contracting out in 2016.
Further legislation could result in an Remeasurement gains 55.0 34.1 increase in the value of Guaranteed Minimum Pension.
If Tax on remeasurement gains 9.4 6.1 this legislation is implemented, this would increase the 45.6 28.0 defined benefit obligation of the arrangements.
Income statement Franchise adjustment to current period costs 62.8 45.2 Interest on franchise adjustments 18.7 21.2 Deferred tax charge 13.9 12.0 67.6 54.4 www.
com 155 154 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings Our subsidiaries listed below each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group.
The Group has a number of related parties including joint ventures, pension schemes and directors.
For accounting policies see Interests in joint arrangements in note 2.
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: % equity interest Name Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Trading subsidiaries 2 Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go North East Limited United Kingdom 100 100 London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Konectbus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Travel Wallingford Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Hedingham & District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 HC Chambers and Son Ltd. United Kingdom 100 100 Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 65 65 1 Govia Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thamesdown Transport Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Transport Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Go-Ahead Baden Wrttemberg GmbH Germany 100 100 Go-Ahead Facility GmbH Germany 100 100 Go-Ahead Seletar PTE Ltd Singapore 100 100 Go-Ahead Loyang PTE Ltd Singapore 100 100 Jointly controlled entities 3 On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom 50 50 1.
The rail companies are 65% owned by The Go-Ahead Group plc and 35% owned by Keolis UK Limited and held through Govia Limited.
Held by The Go-Ahead Group plc.
All other companies are held through subsidiary undertakings.
On Track Retail Limited is a joint venture with Assertis Limited.
The above trading subsidiaries have one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income, with the exception of On Track Retail Limited, which also has redeemable preference shares.
rd The registered office of all trading subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH is: Jean-Monnaie-Strae 2, D-10557, Berlin, Germany.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Baden Wrttemberg GmbH is: Bchsenstrae 20, D-73457, Stuttgart, Germany.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Facility GmbH is: Bahnhof 2, D-73457, Essingen, Germany.
The registered office of subsidiaries incorporated in Singapore is: 2 Loyang Way, Singapore 508776.
156 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 156 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED % equity interest 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings Name Company number Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Our subsidiaries listed below each contributes to the profits, assets and cashflow of the Group.
The Group has a number of related parties Dormant subsidiaries including joint ventures, pension schemes and directors.
East Midlands Railway Limited previously Eastern Railway The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group plc and the following Group undertakings: Limited 100 7164882 United Kingdom 100 100 Go Wear Buses Limited 2019645 United Kingdom 100 % equity interest 100 Name Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Go-Reading Limited 3158846 United Kingdom 100 Trading subsidiaries 100 GA Retail Services Limited previously South Central Limited 4173713 United Kingdom 100 2 Go-Ahead Holding Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 The Go-Ahead Group Trustee Co Limited 2125799 United Kingdom 100 Go North East Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Go-Ahead Property Development Limited 7128594 United Kingdom 100 London General Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Go-Ahead XX Limited 8205871 United Kingdom 100 Go-Ahead London Rail Replacement Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 GHI Limited 4262016 United Kingdom 100 Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Southern Vectis Limited 2005917 United Kingdom 100 The City of Oxford Motor Services Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Birmingham Passenger Transport Services Limited 2901263 United Kingdom 100 Go South Coast Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Go Coastline Limited 2018469 United Kingdom 100 Plymouth Citybus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 100 Go London Limited 2849983 United Kingdom 100 Konectbus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go West Midlands Limited 2490584 United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Travel Wallingford Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Levers Coaches Limited 2524573 United Kingdom 100 100 Carousel Buses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 MetroCity Newcastle Limited 4153866 United Kingdom 100 100 Hedingham & District Omnibuses Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Thames Trains Limited 3007943 United Kingdom 100 100 Anglian Bus Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Victory Railway Holdings Limited 3147927 United Kingdom 100 100 HC Chambers and Son Ltd. United Kingdom 100 100 London and South East Passenger Rail Services Limited 1 Aviance UK Limited United Kingdom 100 100 previously Govia Northern Limited 6537238 United Kingdom 65 65 1 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 London & East Midlands Railway Limited 5814586 United Kingdom 65 65 1 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 London and West Midlands Railway Limited 5537947 United Kingdom 65 65 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Abingdon Bus Company Limited 3151270 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Reed Investments Limited 4236536 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 65 65 Gatwick Handling Limited 2984113 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 65 65 GH Heathrow Limited 2813292 United Kingdom 100 100 1 Govia Limited United Kingdom 65 65 GH Manchester Limited 1883900 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Scotland Limited United Kingdom 100 100 GH Stansted Limited 1983429 United Kingdom 100 100 Thamesdown Transport Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Midland Airport Services Limited 1592083 United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Coaches Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Oxford Newco Limited 9542008 United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Transport Limited United Kingdom 100 100 London General Trustee Company Limited 6953098 United Kingdom 100 100 Excelsior Travel Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Finance Company 4699524 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 Hants & Dorset Motor Services Limited 2752603 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Baden Wrttemberg GmbH Germany 100 100 Hants & Dorset Trim Limited 2017829 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Facility GmbH Germany 100 100 Solent Blue Line Limited 2103030 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Seletar PTE Ltd Singapore 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Services Limited 2201331 United Kingdom 100 100 Go-Ahead Loyang PTE Ltd Singapore 100 100 Marchwood Motorways Southampton Limited 1622531 United Kingdom 100 100 Jointly controlled entities The Southern Vectis Omnibus Co. Limited 0241973 United Kingdom 100 100 3 On Track Retail Limited United Kingdom 50 50 Tourist Coaches Limited 3006529 United Kingdom 100 100 Wilts & Dorset Bus Company Limited 1671355 United Kingdom 100 100 1.
Wilts & Dorset Investments Limited 4613075 United Kingdom 100 100 2.
Wilts & Dorset Holdings Limited 2091878 United Kingdom 100 100 3.
Dockland Buses Limited 3420004 United Kingdom 100 100 The above trading subsidiaries have one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income, with the exception of On Track Retail Blue Triangle Buses Limited 3770568 United Kingdom 100 100 Limited, which also has redeemable preference shares.
Go-Ahead Leasing Limited 5262810 United Kingdom 100 100 rd The registered office of all trading subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, Go Northern Limited 0132492 United Kingdom 100 100 NE1 6EE.
London Central Bus Company Limited 2328565 United Kingdom 100 100 The registered office of Go-Ahead Verkehrsgesellschaft Deutschland GmbH is: Jean-Monnaie-Strae 2, D-10557, Berlin, Germany.
Metrobus Limited 1742404 United Kingdom 100 100 Hants & Dorset Transport Support Services Limited 8669065 United Kingdom 100 100 The registered office of Go-Ahead Baden Wrttemberg GmbH is: Bchsenstrae 20, D-73457, Stuttgart, Germany.
Go-Ahead Sverige AB Sweden 100 100 The registered office of Go-Ahead Facility GmbH is: Bahnhof 2, D-73457, Essingen, Germany.
Go-Ahead Norge AS Norway 100 100 The registered office of subsidiaries incorporated in Singapore is: 2 Loyang Way, Singapore 508776. www.
com 157 156 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
com 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued % equity interest Name Company number Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Jointly controlled dormant entities South Tyneside Smartzone Limited 09907829 United Kingdom 50 50 Newcastle Smartzone Limited 09907839 United Kingdom 33 33 North Tyneside Smartzone Limited 09907842 United Kingdom 33 33 Sunderland Smartzone Limited 09907836 United Kingdom 33 33 1.
rd The registered office of all dormant subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Sverige AB incorporated in Sweden is: Mster Samuelsgatan 20, SE 101 39, Stockholm, Sweden.
The registered office of Go-Ahead Norge AS incorporated in Norway is: Filipstad Brygge 1, NO 0125, Oslo, Norway.
The registered office of all jointly controlled dormant entities is: Kepier House, Belmont Business Park, Durham, DH1 1TH.
All dormant companies listed above are incorporated in the United Kingdom have taken advantage of the UK Companies Act 2006, S480 exemption from audit.
Transactions with other related parties The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office support functions to the trustees.
Costs borne on behalf of the retirement benefit plans amounted to 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
Joint ventures The Groups joint venture, On Track Retail Limited OTR, has its principal place of business in the United Kingdom.
The principal activity of OTR is the development and provision of web ticketing applications for the rail industry.
The activities of the joint venture are strategically important to the business activities of the Group.
The Group owns 50% of the ordinary share capital of OTR.
Compensation of key management personnel of the Group The key management are considered to be the directors of the parent company.
2017 2016 m m Short term employee benefits 1.4 1.3 1 Long term employee benefits 0.3 1.0 Post employment benefits 0.1 1.8 2.3 1.
The long term employee benefits relate to LTIP and DSBP.
Material partly owned subsidiaries Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Country of incorporation and operation 2017 2016 Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1.
2017 2016 m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: Govia Limited 23.7 22.6 Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: Govia Limited 22.4 24.4 158 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 158 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED The summarised financial information of these subsidiaries is provided below.
The information is based on amounts before inter-company 28.
Related party disclosures and Group undertakings continued eliminations: % equity interest Name Company number Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Summarised income statement of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 1 July 2017 and Jointly controlled dormant entities 2 July 2016: South Tyneside Smartzone Limited 09907829 United Kingdom 50 50 Restated Newcastle Smartzone Limited 09907839 United Kingdom 33 33 2017 2016 North Tyneside Smartzone Limited 09907842 United Kingdom 33 33 m m Sunderland Smartzone Limited 09907836 United Kingdom 33 33 Revenue 2,579.1 2,498.0 Operating costs 2,499.8 2,410.7 1.
Finance revenue 2.3 3.2 rd The registered office of all dormant subsidiaries incorporated in the United Kingdom is: 3 Floor, 41-51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, Finance costs 1.9 2.9 NE1 6EE.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 79.7 87.6 The registered office of Go-Ahead Sverige AB incorporated in Sweden is: Mster Samuelsgatan 20, SE 101 39, Stockholm, Sweden.
Tax expense 16.4 17.7 Profit for the year from controlling operations 63.3 69.9 The registered office of Go-Ahead Norge AS incorporated in Norway is: Filipstad Brygge 1, NO 0125, Oslo, Norway.
Total comprehensive income 63.3 69.9 The registered office of all jointly controlled dormant entities is: Kepier House, Belmont Business Park, Durham, DH1 1TH.
Attributable to non-controlling interests 22.4 24.4 All dormant companies listed above are incorporated in the United Kingdom have taken advantage of the UK Companies Act 2006, S480 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 21.3 17.8 exemption from audit.
Summarised balance sheet of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies as at 1 July 2017 and 2 July 2016: Transactions with other related parties 2017 2016 The Group meets certain costs of administering the Groups retirement benefit plans, including the provision of meeting space and office m m support functions to the trustees.
Current assets inventories, trade and other receivables, cash 850.7 924.5 Non-current assets property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, deferred tax 51.9 35.4 Joint ventures Current liabilities trade and other payables, provisions 776.0 849.7 The Groups joint venture, On Track Retail Limited OTR, has its principal place of business in the United Kingdom.
The principal activity of OTR Non-current liabilities provisions 58.9 45.6 is the development and provision of web ticketing applications for the rail industry.
The activities of the joint venture are strategically important Total equity 67.7 64.6 to the business activities of the Group.
Attributable to: Compensation of key management personnel of the Group Equity holders of the parent 44.0 42.0 The key management are considered to be the directors of the parent company.
Non-controlling interest 23.7 22.6 2017 2016 These balance sheet amounts are shown before intercompany eliminations.
m m Short term employee benefits 1.4 1.3 Summarised cashflow information of Govia Limited and its subsidiary companies for the year ended 1 July 2017 and 1 Long term employee benefits 0.3 1.0 2 July 2016: Post employment benefits 0.1 2017 2016 1.8 2.3 m m Operating 18.4 62.7 1.
Investing 30.0 20.8 Material partly owned subsidiaries Financing 62.9 53.7 Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests is provided below: Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 51.3 29.8 Proportion of equity interest held by non-controlling interests: Country of incorporation and operation 2017 2016 Govia Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 London and South Eastern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 London and Birmingham Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Govia Thameslink Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 Thameslink Rail Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1 New Southern Railway Limited United Kingdom 35% 35% 1.
2017 2016 m m Accumulated balances of material non-controlling interest: Govia Limited 23.7 22.6 Total comprehensive income allocated to material non-controlling interest: Govia Limited 22.4 24.4 www.
com 159 158 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
