CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY The preparation of the financial statements requires management The Group makes provision for income and costs relating to to make judgements, estimates and assumptions.
Although these performance regimes and contractual obligations relating to judgements and estimates are based on managements best operating delays caused by Network Rail, or caused by our own knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from these estimates.
This process can be based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or, in certain Critical accounting judgements circumstances based on managements view of the most likely The following are the critical judgements, apart from those outcome of individual claims.
The Group has significant internal involving estimations, that the directors have made in the process of expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most and the issues relating to delay attribution to enable management significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial to assess the most probable outcomes, nonetheless significant statements: judgements are required, which can have material impacts on the financial statements.
Exceptional operating items Accordingly judgements in these and other areas are made on a In certain years the Group presents as exceptional operating items continuing basis with regard to amounts due and the recoverable on the face of the income statement, material items of revenue or carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises expense which, because of the size or the nature and expected and other contracts.
Regular reviews are performed on the expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance.
judgements relating to the expected level of revenues and costs.
The The determination of whether items merit treatment as exceptional GTR franchise is complex and there are a number of contractual in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement.
There are no discussions underway with the DfT that have a range of reasonably exceptional items in the current or comparative year.
Managements judgements are that, relating to events up to 1 July 2017, the impact on rail profitability of these Accounting for the rail pension schemes outcomes is likely to be within a range of plus or minus 5m.
The train operating companies participate in the RPS, a defined Contract and franchise accounting specific to the rail business is benefit pension scheme which covers the whole of the UK rail disclosed in the segmental analysis in note 4. industry.
This is partitioned into sections and the Group is responsible for the funding of these schemes whilst it operates the relevant Measurement of franchise commitments franchise.
In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising businesses the RPS is a shared cost scheme which means that costs dilapidation provisions on rolling stock, depots and stations and also are formally shared 60% employer 40% employee.
In the year ended 1 income claims from other rail franchise operators is set out in note July 2017 the Group has changed the way in which it accounts for rail 24.
Significant elements of the provisions required are subject to pension schemes in its income statement.
The Group has revised its interpretation of franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements.
accounting policy so that only the Groups resulting share of costs are The Group has significant internal expertise to assess and manage recognised.
This compares to the previous approach where the full these aspects of the agreements and to enable management to service cost was included within the income statement and the assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, and majority of the franchise adjustments were recognised through the specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is statement of comprehensive income.
Please refer to note 3 for supported by valuations from professional external advisors to further details.
Uninsured claims Retirement benefit obligations Bus schemes The measurement of uninsured liabilities is based on an assessment The measurement of defined benefit pension obligations requires the of both the expected settlement of known claims and of the cost of estimation of future changes in salaries, inflation, longevity of current claims not yet reported to the Group, as detailed in note 24.
In order and deferred members and the selection of a suitable discount rate, to assess the appropriate level of provisions the Group engages with as set out in note 27.
The Group engages Willis Towers Watson, its brokers and claims handlers to ensure external expertise is a global professional services company whose specialisms include adequately factored in to the provision for known claims.
actuarial advice, to support the process of establishing reasonable bases for all of these estimates, to ensure they are appropriate to the Key sources of estimation uncertainty Groups particular circumstances.
Management also benchmark The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk these assumptions on a periodic basis with other professional advisors.
of causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to: Contract and franchise accounting The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were created at the time of privatisation and the relationships between them is governed by a number of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and train operating companies.
These contracts include detailed performance regimes which determine the allocation of financial responsibility relating to the attribution of delays.
The processes for attribution, whilst well understood, require detailed assessment and can take significant time to resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.
116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 116 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
