EMIT pp65-70 05 10 2017 16:19 Page 65 Shareholder Information NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the twenty fifth Annual General Meeting shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc will be held at and so that the Directors of the Company may allot shares and 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP on Friday, grant Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if 24th November 2017 at 3.00 p. m. for the following purposes: the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Auditors Report for the year ended 30th June 2017. relevant securities Special Resolution 13.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above, the 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration policy.
Directors of the Company be and they are hereby empowered 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year pursuant to Sections 570 to 573 of the Act to allot equity ended 30th June 2017. securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by Resolution 12 or by 4.
To approve a final dividend of 11.0p per share.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as if Section 561 1 of the 5.
To reappoint Sarah Arkle as a Director of the Company.
Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for 6.
To reappoint Anatole Kaletsky as a Director of the Company.
cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,547,256 7.
To reappoint Richard Laing as a Director of the Company.
representing approximately 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution at a price 8.
To reappoint Ruary Neill as a Director of the Company.
of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire 9.
To reappoint Andrew Page as a Director of the Company.
upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by Resolution 12 above, save that the Company may before such 10.
To reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the expiry make offers or agreements which would or might Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and so remuneration.
that the Directors of the Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power Special Business conferred hereby had not expired.
To consider the following resolutions: Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Continuation Vote Ordinary Resolution Resolution 11.
THAT the Company continue in existence as an investment trust 14.
THAT the Company be generally and, subject as hereinafter for a further three year period.
appears, unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued Ordinary 12.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors may generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of from time to time determine.
any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company i the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe authorised to be purchased shall be 18,554,696, or if less, for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company that number of Ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% Rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,547,256, of the issued share capital as at the date of the passing of representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued this Resolution: Ordinary share capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, provided that this authority shall expire at the ii the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to share shall be 25 pence: be held in 2018 unless renewed at a general meeting prior to iii the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary such time, save that the Company may before such expiry share shall be an amount equal to the highest of: a 105% make offers or agreements which would or might require of the average of the middle market quotations for an 65 EMIT pp65-70 05 10 2017 16:19 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGCONTINUED Ordinary share taken from and calculated by reference to Notes the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse of the proxy form.
five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint or b the price of the last independent trade: or c the another person s who need not be a member of the Company to highest current independent bid: exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to the iv any purchase of Ordinary shares will be made in the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset attaching to different shares held by him.
value per Ordinary share as determined by the Directors : 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on 23rd May attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the 2019 unless the authority is renewed at the Companys Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has Annual General Meeting in 2018 or at any other general agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the meeting prior to such time: and Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on vi the Company may make a contract to purchase Ordinary the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from expiry of such authority which contract will or may be voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares the Meeting and voting in person.
pursuant to any such contract.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form no later than 3.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding By order of the Board weekends and bank holidays.
Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of 4.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy JPMorgan Funds Limited, appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also Company Secretary applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will 12th October 2017 be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the Meeting or adjourned Meeting.
66 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out the or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to 11.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative may rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated Person: exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Person may have a right under an agreement between him and the Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as a proxy for the shares.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a Nominated Person corporate representative.
does not have such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the member as Representatives should bring to the Meeting evidence of their to the exercise of voting rights.
appointment, including any authority under which it is signed.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of shares Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting rights at website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to exercise at the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct of AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, members the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any circumstances resolutions or members matters of business received by the Company connected with Auditors of the Company ceasing to hold office since after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys website the previous AGM, which the members propose to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on the website must also be 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the sent to the Companys Auditors no later than the time it makes its share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has been usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public required to publish on its website pursuant to this right.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the 9.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Company.
must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of attending the Meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it is Meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the than those expressly stated.
Meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential information.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Direction Form.
intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting any online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
included in the business at the Meeting.
As at 4th October 2017 being the latest business day prior to the moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by of 132,363,525 Ordinary shares of which 8,583,029 shares are held in reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys Treasury, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total voting rights in constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is the Company are 123,780,496. frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must Electronic appointment CREST members be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must be CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting and received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear weeks any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included in the Manual.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
67 EMIT pp65-70 05 10 2017 16:19 Page 68 Shareholder Information continued GLOSSARY OF TERMS AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES Return to shareholders Share price discount premium to net asset value NAV Total return to the shareholder on a last traded price to last traded price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per without transaction costs, in the shares of the Company at the time share, the Companys shares are said to be trading at a discount.
the shares were quoted ex-dividend see page 2.
The discount is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share see page 11.
The opposite of a discount is a premium.
It is more Return on net assets common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a bid value to bid value basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the Performance attribution Company were reinvested in the shares of the Company at the NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance relative to its benchmark see page 7.
In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are Performance attribution definitions: deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on net assets see page 2.
Asset allocation Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the Benchmark return benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
Total return on the benchmark, on a closing-market value to closing-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received Stock selection were reinvested in the shares of the underlying companies at the Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or time the shares were quoted ex-dividend see page 2. lesser extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in securities which are not included in the benchmark.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Gearing cash universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not follow or Measures the impact on returns of borrowings or cash balances track this index and consequently, there may be some divergence on the Companys relative performance.
between the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
Currency Gearing Net Cash Measures the impact of currency exposure differences between the Companys portfolio and its benchmark.
Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds of total investments, expressed as a percentage of the shareholders Management fee other expenses funds, and is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the The payment of fees and expenses reduces the Companys net Association of Investment Companies.
If the amount calculated is assets and therefore has a negative effect on relative negative, this is shown as a net cash position see page 11. performance.
Ongoing charges The ongoing charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net assets during the year see page 11.
68 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 EMIT pp65-70 05 10 2017 16:19 Page 69 WHERE TO BUY J. P. MORGAN INVESTMENT TRUSTS You can invest in a J. P. Morgan investment trust through the following: 1.
Directly from J. P. Morgan Investment Account The Companys shares are available in the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Investment Account should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or visit its website at am.
co. uk investor Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA The Companys shares are eligible investments within a J. P. Morgan ISA.
For the 2017 18 tax year, from 6th April 2017 and ending 5th April 2018, the total ISA allowance is 20,000.
The shares are also available in a J. P. Morgan Junior ISA.
Details are available from J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at am.
Via a third party provider Third party providers include: AJ Bell Interactive Investor Alliance Trust Savings James Brearley Barclays Stockbrokers James Hay Bestinvest Selftrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct FundsNetwork The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown Trustnet Direct Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of individual trusts may vary depending on the provider.
These websites are third party sites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend any.
Please observe each sites privacy and cookie policies as well as their platform charges structure.
Through a professional adviser Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all the companies in the market and can help you find an investment that suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
You can find an adviser at unbiased.
co. uk You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth managers and banks.
To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
uk 69 EMIT pp65-70 05 10 2017 16:19 Page 70 Shareholder Information continued Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam Be ScamSmart 1 Reject cold calls If you suspect that you have been If youve received unsolicited contact about approached by fraudsters please tell the an investment opportunity, chances are FCA using the reporting form at its a high risk investment or a scam.
uk consumers reportInvestment scams are should treat the call with extreme caution.
You can also call designed to look like The safest thing to do is to hang up.
the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 genuine investments 2 Check the FCA Warning List The FCA Warning List is a list of rms and If you have lost money to investment fraud, Spot the warning signs individuals we know are operating without you should report it to Action Fraud on Have you been: our authorisation.
0300 123 2040 or online at contacted out of the blue 3 Get impartial advice www.
uk promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial financial and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.
Find out more at called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
uk scamsmart told the offer is only available the rm that has approached you.
If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
70 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
