The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Glossary Alternative Investment Fund Managers Dividend Dates When declared or recommended, each dividend will have three key Directive AIFMD dates applied to it.
The payment date is the date on which Agreed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European shareholders will receive their dividend, either by BACS transfer or Union and transposed into UK legislation, the AIFMD classifies by receipt of a dividend cheque.
The record date applied to the certain investment vehicles, including investment companies, as dividend is used as a cut-off for the Companys registrars to know Alternative Investment Funds AIFs and requires them to appoint which shareholders should be paid a dividend.
Only shareholders on an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and depositary the register of members at the close of business on the record date tomanage and oversee the operations of the investment vehicle.
The ex-dividend date is the business day TheBoard of the Company retains responsibility for strategy, before the record date and is the date upon which the Companys operations and compliance and the Directors retain a fiduciary net asset value will be disclosed ex-dividend.
Gearing Association of Investment Companies AIC Gearing means borrowing money to buy assets with the expectation The Company is a member of the AIC which is the trade body for that the return on investments bought will exceed the interest cost of investment companies and represents the industry in relation to the borrowings.
The gearing percentage reflects the amount of various matters which impact the regulation of such entities.
borrowings e. g. bank loans or overdrafts the Company has used to invest in the market, and is calculated by taking the difference between total investments and equity shareholders funds, dividing Benchmark this by equity shareholders funds and multiplying by 100.
The A measure against which performance is compared.
For the Company can also use synthetic gearing through derivatives and Company this is the size weighted average of the AIC UK Equity foreign exchange hedging.
Investment Trusts Custodian Investment trusts are public limited companies, listed on the London The Custodian is responsible for ensuring the safe custody of the Stock Exchange, which provide shareholders with a professionally Companys assets and ensuring that all transactions in the managed portfolio of investments.
Investment trusts are exempt from underlying holdings are transacted in an accurate and timely manner.
tax on the capital gains arising on their investments subject to meeting certain criteria.
Income, net of expenses and tax, is substantially distributed to shareholders.
Investment trusts are also Depositary known as investment companies, although the tax legislation retains From 22 July 2014 all AIFs were required to appoint a Depositary the reference to investment trusts.
who has responsibility for overseeing the operations of the Company including safekeeping, cash monitoring and verification of ownership and valuation.
The Depositary is strictly liable for the loss of any Liquidity investments or other assets in its custody unless it has notified that In the context of the liquidity of shares in the stock market, this refers ithas discharged its liability in certain markets.
TheDepositary has to the availability of buyers in the market for the share in question.
confirmed that it has not discharged liability inrelation to any of the Where the market in a particular share is described as liquid, that Companys assets.
share will be in demand and holders wishing to sell their shares should find ready buyers.
Conversely, where the market in a share is illiquid the difficulty of finding a buyer will tend to depress the price Derivative that might be negotiated for a sale.
A contract between two or more parties in relation to an underlying security.
The value of a derivative will fluctuate in accordance with the value of the security and is a form of gearing as the fluctuations Market Capitalisation in value are usually greater than the fluctuations in the underlying The market value of a company, calculated by multiplying the securitys value.
Examples of derivatives are put and call options, mid-market price per share by the number of shares in issue.
swap contracts, futures and contracts for difference.
Foreign exchange, interest rates and commodities may also be traded usingderivative contracts.
21 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report: Glossary continued Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share Total Return Performance The value of the Companys assets e. g. investments and cash held This is the return on the share price or NAV taking into account less any liabilities e. g. bank borrowings and debt securities for boththe rise and fall of share prices and the dividends paid to which the Company is responsible, divided by the number of shares shareholders.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed in issue.
The aggregate NAV is also referred to as shareholders to have been reinvested in either additional shares for share price funds on the Statement of Financial Position.
total return or the Companys assets for NAV total return.
The NAV is published daily and includes a NAV with debt at market Yield value and a NAV with debt at par.
Performance is measured with debt at market value.
The annual dividend expressed as a percentage of the share price.
Ongoing Charge The Ongoing Charge reects those expenses of a type which are likely to recur in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital orrevenue, and which relate to the operation of the Company as a collective fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, nancing costs and gains or losses arising on investments.
The Ongoing Charge is based on actual costs incurred in the year as being the best estimate of future costs.
Premium Discount The amount by which the market price per share of an investment trust is either higher premium or lower discount than the NAV pershare, expressed as a percentage of the NAV per share.
Revenue Earnings per share The revenue return divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Revenue Reserve per share The revenue reserve as at the year end divided by the number of shares in issue at the year end date.
Warning to Shareholders Many companies are aware that their shareholders have received Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to ocial documentation already circulated to target UK shareholders oering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, oers If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, to buy shares at a discount or oers of free company reports.
please contact the Company Secretary on the telephone number detailed on page17.
