EMIT pp24-37 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 37 Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing regulation.
the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting and Directors Remuneration Report that comply with the law and Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard those regulations.
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland and applicable law.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in of the Company for that period.
In preparing the financial accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting statements, the Directors are required to: Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law, give a true and fair consistently: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, Company: and comprising FRS 102, have been followed, subject to any material the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and performance of the business and the position of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Company, together with a description of the principal risks and and prudent: and uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the continue in business.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys For and on behalf of the Board transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Alan Saunders financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that Chairman the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report 5th October 2017 comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
