The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the Financial Statements 1 Accounting policies a Basis of accounting The Company is a registered investment company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and is incorporated in the United Kingdom.
It operates in the United Kingdom and is registered at the address on page 17.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, FRS 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland which is effective for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2015, and with the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts the SORP issued in November 2014 and updated in January 2017 with consequential amendments.
The Company has early adopted the amendments to FRS 102 in respect of fair value hierarchy disclosures as published in March 2016.
The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
As an investment fund the Company has the option, which it has taken, not to present a cash flow statement.
A cash flow statement isnot required when an investment fund meets all the following conditions: substantially all of the entitys investments are highly liquid, substantially all of the entitys investments are carried at market value, and the entity provides a Statement of Changes in Equity.
TheDirectors have assessed that the Company meets all of these conditions.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis except for the measurement at fair value of investments.
Inapplying FRS 102, financial instruments have been accounted for in accordance with Section 11 and 12 of the standard.
All of the Companys operations are of a continuing nature.
The financial statements of the Companys three subsidiaries have not been consolidated on the basis of immateriality and dormancy.
Consequently the financial statements present information about the Company as an individual entity.
The Directors consider that the values of the subsidiary undertakings are not less than the amounts at which they are included in the financial statements.
b Going concern The assets of the Company consist of securities that are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Directors believe that the Company hasadequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Having assessed these factors, the principal risks and other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Board has determined that it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.
c Valuation of investments held at fair value through profit or loss Listed investments are valued at fair value which is deemed to be bid market prices or the last traded price depending on the convention oftheexchange on which the investment is quoted.
The only unquoted investments are the Companys subsidiaries which are valued at the net asset value according to their latest financial statements and this is considered to be fair value.
Changes in the fair value of investments held at fair value through profit or loss and gains and losses on disposal are recognised in theIncome Statement as Gains losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss.
Transaction costs incurred on the purchase and disposal of investments are recognised as a capital item in the Income Statement.
All purchases and sales are accounted for on a trade basis.
d Foreign currency The results and financial position of the Company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the Company.
Sterling is the functional currency because it is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.
Transactions recorded in overseas currencies during the year are translated into sterling at the appropriate daily exchange rates.
Assetsand liabilities denominated in overseas currencies at the Statement of Financial Position date are translated into sterling at theexchange rates ruling at that date.
Any gains or losses on the translation of foreign currency balances, whether realised or unrealised, are taken to the capital or to therevenue return of the Income Statement, depending on whether the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature.
