EMIT pp48-64 05 10 2017 16:21 Page 64 Regulatory Disclosures ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
The Company is required to state its maximum and actual leverage levels, calculated as prescribed by the AIFMD, at 30th June 2017, which gives the following figures: Gross Commitment Leverage Exposure Method Method Maximum limit 200% 200% 1 Actual 100% 100% 1 It should be noted that the Company does not have a borrowing facility and does not currently employ gearing.
At the year end the Companys position was 1.0% net cash.
The above figures are theoretical and are calculated in accordance with the methodology prescribed by the AIFMD.
JPMF Remuneration JPMF is the authorised manager of the Company and is part of the JPMorgan Chase & Co. group of companies.
In this disclosure, the terms JPMorgan or Firm refer to that group, and each of the entities in that group globally, unless otherwise specified.
This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, the Guidelines on sound remuneration policies under the AIFMD issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority under the AIFMD.
The disclosure has also been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook FUND 3.3.
JPMF Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy for the Management Company the Remuneration Policy can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim adv legal .
This policy includes details of how remuneration benefits are calculated, including the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance.
The responsibilities and composition of the Firms Compensation and Management Development and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
A copy of this policy can be requested free of charge from the Management Company.
The Remuneration Policy applies to all employees of the Management Company, including individuals whose professional activities may have a material impact on the risk profile of the Management Company or the funds it manages Identified Staff.
The Identified Staff include members of the Board of the Management Company the Board, senior management, the heads of relevant Control Functions, and holders of other key functions.
Individuals are notified of their identification and the implications of this status on at least an annual basis.
JPMF reviews and adopts the Remuneration Policy on an annual basis, and oversees its implementation, including the classification of Identified Staff.
JPMF Quantitative Disclosures Disclosures in accordance with FUND 3.3.
5, Article 22 2 e and 22 2 f of the AIFMD and Article 107 of the Delegated Regulation are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk SECURITIES FINANCING TRANSACTIONS REGULATION SFTR DISCLOSURES UNAUDITED The Company does not engage in Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing transactions include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions or total return swaps.
Accordingly, disclosures required by Article 13 of the Regulation are not applicable for the year ended 30th June 2017.
64 JPMORGAN EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC.
