The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2017 General Shareholder Information AIFMD Disclosures FATCA In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund managers The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA is a United Directive AIFMD, information in relation to the Companys leverage States federal law enacted in 2010 whose intent is to enforce the and remuneration of Henderson Investment Funds Limited, as the requirement for United States persons including those living outside Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM are the U. S. to file yearly reports on their non-U.
required to be made available to investors.
These disclosures, As a result of HMRCs change of interpretation on the meaning of including those on the AIFMs remuneration policy, are contained in a shares and securities regularly traded on an established securities Key Investor Information Document KIID which can be found on market, investment trusts now need to monitor each year the trading the Companys website.
volume and frequency of their shares and securities to assess whether they have financial accounts.
The Company will therefore need to make an annual assessment, before the FATCA return is BACS due, to determine if the shares represent financial accounts and, Dividends and interest can be paid to shareholders and stockholders where they do, will need to identify and report U. S. reportable by means of BACS Bankers Automated Clearing Services : accounts to HMRC, as required.
mandate forms for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the address ISA isgiven on page 17 to give their instructions: these must include thebank account number, the bank account title and the sort code The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs in order ofthe bank to which payments are to be made.
toqualify as an eligible investment for a stocks and shares ISA.
Common Reporting Standard Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments NMPI With effect from 1 January 2016 new tax legislation under The Status Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Common The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its ordinary Reporting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account shares of 25p each can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail Information is being introduced.
The legislation will require the investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Company to provide personal information to HMRC on certain FCA rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products and investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
This information intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares will have to be provided annually to the local tax authority of the tax are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to nonresidencies of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders mainstream investment products because they are shares in an and corporate entities.
Equality Act 2010 Performance Details Share Price Information Copies of this report and other documents issued by the Company Details of the Companys share price and NAV can be found on are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be thewebsite.
com made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or TheCompanys NAV is published daily.
You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services Shareholder Details PLC, which has installed textphones to allow speech and hearing Shareholders who hold their shares in certificated form can check impaired people who have their own textphone to contact them their shareholding with the Registrar, Computershare Investor directly, without the need for an intermediate operator by dialling Services PLC, via www.
Specially trained operators are available during Please note that to gain access to your details on the normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Computersharesite you will need the holder reference number shown on your share certificate.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf People dial 18001 Share Price Listings followed by the number you wish to dial.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares is published dailyin The Financial Times and other leading newspapers.
TheFinancial Times also shows figures for the estimated NAV andthe premium discount.
The market prices of the Companys preference, preferred ordinary and debenture stocks can be found in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List.
