Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information KPI definitions and why we measure KPI Definition Why we measure Adjusted gross margin Gross profit before adjusted items divided by total revenue, expressed as a percentage.
This measures underlying gross profitability of the Group before overhead costs, finance costs, tax and one-off items.
This is a key internal management metric forassessing performance.
Adjusted profit before tax PBT The Groups profit before tax including its share of profits from JVs and associates, This measure demonstrates the overall underlying profitability of the Group after beforeany adjusted items.
administrative costs and finance costs but before one-off items.
This is consistent with how the business performance is reported to and assessed by the Board.
Return on capital employed ROCE Calculated as earnings before interest, tax, operating charges relating to the defined We measure return on capital employed to demonstrate the level of return as a benefit pension scheme and operating adjusting or exceptional items, divided by average percentage from our core operations and to demonstrate the generation of shareholder net assets adjusted for goodwill and intangibles, tax, cash, loans and borrowings, value.
It is a key internal management performance measure for ensuring efficient and retirement benefit assets obligations and derivative financial instruments.
effective use of shareholders capital within business operations.
Year end net cash Calculated as cash and cash equivalents, less total borrowings being total drawn debt, We measure net cash debt as a measure of our liquidity and available funds at any plus minus the value of any foreign exchange swaps held.
We adjust for the effect of foreign exchange swaps in place on debt denoted in foreign currencies to better reflect the Groups available funds in sterling.
This is a key measure used to assess the ability of the Group to fund its ongoing operations and commitments.
Earnings per share EPS Calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders We measure earnings per share for our shareholders as it measures the amount by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding of post-tax profit attributable to them over the period and is used in the calculation those held by the Employee Benefit Trust which are treated as cancelled.
Total Shareholder Return TSR TSR is a measure of the performance of the Groups share price over a period We measure TSR as it enables our shareholders to identify the amount of appreciation of three financial years.
It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid and income they have derived from holding the Groups shares over a three-year period to show the total return to the shareholders expressed as a percentage.
when compared against other investments.
Health and Safety The percentage of internal inspections which are compliant with SHE guidelines.
We measure compliance with Health & Safety as it is our number one priority.
We strive SHE audit compliance to ensure that our people, whether employees, sub-contractors or members of the public, remain safe throughout the whole construction and sales process of our developments and in our wider business.
Customer service The percentage of home buyers who would recommend the Group to family We measure customer service as our customers are key to our success as a business.
and friends taken from the HBF Homebuilder Survey.
The HBF Homebuilder survey is an industry recognised, independently measured indicator of both our customer service and build quality.
The survey is designed to provide home buyers with information about housebuilders tohelp guide their purchasing decision, and to encourage excellent levels of service to be delivered by housebuilders.
Employee engagement score The percentage level of satisfaction of our people measured using a yearly We measure employee engagement because we aim to have a highly engaged workforce independently conducted survey.
This is compared against a UK wide benchmark across the Group.
We aim to attract and retain the best people and seek to invest in their to assess overall engagement.
Owned and controlled land bank years Owned and controlled plots as at the end of the financial year divided by the number The availability of land is a key input to our business.
We continually monitor our land bank of private and affordable completions for the current financial year.
and the mix of land we have to ensure we have an appropriate land supply.
Land approvals plots The number of plots approved for purchase by the Group.
We measure and monitor land approvals to monitor our land intake and ensure we are approving for purchase an appropriate amount of land to support our business activities going forward.
Total completions Homes sold during the year including 100% of JV homes sold in which the Group Completions are an industry wide measure which reflects the level of activity and growth has an interest.
Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Barratt Developments PLC 175
