70 Galliford Try plc Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under company law the directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: 5 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 5 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 5 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and 5 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 46 and 47, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: 5 the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: 5 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and 5 the Strategic Report contained in pages 1 to 45 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
For and on behalf of the Board Peter Truscott Chief Executive 13 September 2017 Forward looking statements Forward looking statements have been made by the directors in good faith using information up until the date on which they approved this Annual Report.
Forward looking statements should be regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
The Groups businesses are generally not affected by seasonality.
