Shareholder information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Registrar Equiniti provides a range of services for shareholders: The Companys registrar is: Service What it offers How to participate Equiniti Limited Shareholder You can access details of your You can register at Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing service shareholding and a range of other www.
co. uk West Sussex BN99 6DA shareholder services.
co. uk Enquiries You can inform Equiniti of lost share Please contact Equiniti.
1 Telephone: 0371 384 2843 relating to your certificates, dividend warrants or tax International: 44 121 415 7047 shareholding vouchers, change of address or if Textphone: 0371 384 2255 you would like to transfer shares ID fraud and unsolicited mail to another person.
Share-related fraud and identity theft affects Dividend payments Dividends may be paid directly into your Complete a dividend shareholders of many companies and we bank or building society account.
Tax bank mandate instruction urge you to be vigilant.
If you receive any vouchers will continue to be sent to the form which can be unsolicited mail offering advice, you should shareholders registered address.
downloaded from inform Equiniti immediately.
co. uk or As the Companys share register is, by law, by telephoning Equiniti.
open to public inspection, shareholders may Dividend payment Equiniti can convert your dividend in For more details receive unsolicited mail from organisations direct to bank over 83 currencies to over 90 countries please visit that use it as a mailing list.
To reduce the account for worldwide and send it directly to your www.
co. uk amount of unsolicited mail you receive, overseas bank account.
contact the Mailing Preference Service, shareholders FREEPOST 29 LON20771, London W1E 0ZT.
Dividend The Company has a DRIP to allow Further information is Telephone: 0845 703 4599 or 020 7291 3310.
Reinvestment shareholders to reinvest the cash available from the Share Website: www.
uk Plan DRIP dividend that they receive in Hays plc Dividend helpline on ShareGift shares on competitive dealing terms.
0371384 2268 or visit ShareGift is a charity share donation www.
co. uk scheme for shareholders and is administered Amalgamation If you receive more than one copy of the Please contact Equiniti.
by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is of accounts Annual Report & Financial Statements, especially useful for thoseshareholders it could be because you have more who wish to dispose ofasmall number of than one record on the register.
Equiniti shares whose value makes it uneconomical can amalgamate your accounts into to sell on a normal commission basis.
Further information canbe obtained from www.
Share dealing Equiniti offers Shareview Dealing, a You can deal in your 2 service service which allows you to sell your shares on the internet Website Hays plc shares or add to your holding if or by phone.
For more The Company has a corporate website at you are a UK resident.
If you wish to deal, information about this haysplc.
com, which holds, amongst other you will need your account shareholder service and for details information, a copy of our latest Annual reference number which appears on of the rates, log on to Report & Financial Statements and copies your share certificate.
co. uk of all announcements made over the last dealing or telephone 12 months.
Alternatively, if you hold a share Equiniti on 0345 603 7037 certificate, you can also use any Registered office between 8.00am and bank, building society or stockbroker 250 Euston Road 4.30pm, Monday offering share dealing facilities to buy London to Friday.
NW1 2AF Registered in England & Wales no.
2150950 Individual Savings Investors in Hays plc Ordinary shares For further information Telephone: 44 0 20 7383 2266 2 Accounts ISAs may take advantage of a low-cost or to apply for an ISA or individual savings account ISA and or investment account, visit Company Secretary an investment account where they can Equinitis website at Doug Evans hold their Hays plc shares electronically.
com The ISA and investment account are dealing or telephone Investor Relations contact operated by Equiniti Financial Services them on 0345 300 0430.
David Walker, Head of Investor Relations Limited and are subject to standard Email: ir@hays.
1 Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
2 T he provision of share dealing services is not intended to be an invitation or inducement to engage inaninvestment activity.
Advice on share dealing should be obtained from a professional independent financial adviser.
142 Hays plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
