Financial Statements Notes to the Company financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2017 These financial statements are separate financial statements.
1 Accounting policies The Company is exempt from the preparation of consolidated The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They financial statements because it is included in the Annual Report have been applied consistently throughout the year and the and Financial Statements of the Group.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the Annual Basis of preparation Report and Financial Statements of the Group as shown in The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with note 1 to 9.
Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101 and the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements Going concern have been prepared under the historical cost convention.
The directors have made enquiries and have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue Kier Group plc is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom in existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they adopt under the Companies Act.
The address of the registered office is the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Fixed asset investments The Companys financial statements are included in the Kier Group Investments in subsidiary undertakings are included in the balance plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 June sheet at cost less any provision for impairment.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own profit and loss account.
Taxation The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure Income tax comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is exemptions in preparing these financial statements, as permitted recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it by FRS101.
relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
The requirement of paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS Share Based Payment Current tax is the expected tax payable on taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect Disclosures of previous years.
The requirements of paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets The requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS1 Presentation of and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used Financial Statements to present comparative information in for taxation purposes.
The deferred tax provision is based on the respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS1 expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount The requirement of paragraphs 10 d, 10a f, 16, 38A, 38B, of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D and 111 of IAS1 enacted at the balance sheet date.
Presentation of Financial Statements A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is The requirements of paragraphs 134 to 136 of IAS1 probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Presentation of Financial Statements the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the The requirements of IAS7 Statement of Cash Flows extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS8 be realised.
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates Financial instruments and Errors Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the The requirement of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS24 Related Companys balance sheet when the Company becomes a party to Party Disclosures the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The principal financial The requirements in IAS24 Related party disclosures to assets and liabilities of the Company are as follows: disclose related party transaction entered into between two or more members of a group a Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand, The requirements of paragraphs 134 d to 134 f and 135 c including bank deposits with original maturities of three months or to 135 e of IAS36 Impairment of Assets less, net of bank overdrafts where legal right of set off exists.
Bank overdrafts are included within financial liabilities in current liabilities in the balance sheet.
b Bank and other borrowings Interest-bearing bank and other borrowings are recorded at the fair value of the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying value of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
162 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 162 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements c Derivative financial instruments They key assumptions and a key source of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that has a significant risk of carrying a Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date that material adjustment to the carrying amount within the next financial the contract is entered into and subsequently re-measured in future year is: periods at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting change in fair value depends on whether the derivative is designated Impairment of investment in subsidiaries as a hedging instrument and whether the hedging relationship Determining whether the Companys investments in subsidiaries is effective.
have been impaired requires estimations of the investments value For cash flow hedges the effective part of the change in fair value in use.
The value in use calculations require the entity to estimate of these derivatives is recognised directly in other comprehensive the future cash flows expected to arise from investments.
Any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiaries at the balance income statement.
Amounts accumulated in equity are recycled to sheet date was 173.6m 2016: 170.9m.
No impairment losses the income statement in the periods when the hedged items will have been recognised.
The fair value of interest rate derivatives is 2 Profit for the year the estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the to terminate the derivatives at the balance sheet date.
Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge for the year.
The profit for the year was 22.6m 2016: 20.0m.
accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge The auditors remuneration for audit services to the Company was accounting is discontinued prospectively.
loss previously recognised in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs.
3 Information relating to directors and employees The Company enters into forward contracts in order to hedge Information relating to directors emoluments, pension entitlements, against transactional foreign currency exposures.
In cases where share options and LTIP interests appears in the directors these derivative instruments are significant, hedge accounting is remuneration report on pages 82 to 101.
The Company has applied as described above.
Where hedge accounting is not applied, no employees other than the directors.
changes in fair value of derivatives are recognised in the income 4 Dividends statement.
Fair values are based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date.
Details of the dividends paid by the Company are included in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share-based payments Share-based payments granted but not vested are valued at the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
This affects the Sharesave and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP schemes.
The fair value of these schemes at the date of award is calculated using the BlackScholes model apart from the total shareholder return element of the LTIP which is based on a stochastic model.
The cost to the Company of awards to employees under the LTIP scheme is spread on a straight-line basis over the relevant performance period.
The scheme awards to senior employees a number of shares which will vest after three years if particular criteria are met.
The cost of the scheme is based on the fair value of the shares at the date the options are granted.
Shares purchased and held in trust in connection with the Companys share schemes are deducted from retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised within the income statement on the market value of these shares compared with the original cost.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In the application of the Company accounting policies which are described above, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates are based on historical experience and the factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from those estimates.
The estimates are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised.
There are no critical judgements, apart from those involving estimates, that the directors have made in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies and that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 163 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 163 Financial Statements Notes to the Company financial statements continued For the year ended 30 June 2017 5 Fixed assets investments 2017 2016 m m Cost and net asset value 173.6 170.9 Details of the Companys subsidiaries at 30 June 2017 are provided in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
6 Debtors 2017 2016 m m Other debtors 0.3 0.2 Deferred tax 1.3 1.5 1.6 1.7 7 Creditors 2017 2016 m m Amounts falling due within one year: Borrowings 50.0 Corporation tax 1.5 8.9 Other creditors 3.0 2.6 54.5 11.5 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Borrowings 579.6 301.6 Further details on borrowings are included in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements.
164 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 164 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 8 Derivative financial instruments During 2013 the Company entered into three cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a US dollar denominated loan, nominal value US$28.0m.
During 2014 the Company entered into four cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a US dollar denominated loan, nominal value US$116.0m.
During 2016 the Company entered into two cross-currency swaps to hedge the currency risk on a Euro denominated loan, nominal value 20.0m, and three interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk on a GBP denominated loan, nominal value 58.5m.
During 2017 the company reduced the value on the HSBC interest rate swap from 15.0m to 10.0m and entered into an additional swap of 12.0m bringing the total value to 65.5m.
These swaps continue to meet the criteria for hedge accounting and as a result have been recognised directly in equity.
The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with cash flow hedges are expected to occur, how those cash flows will impact the income statement and the fair value of the related hedging instruments: Expected cash flows More than Fair value Total 01 years 12 years 25 years 5 years m m m m m m Cross-currency swaps: asset Gross settled inflows 163.1 5.4 5.4 46.1 106.2 Gross settled outflows 135.6 4.6 4.6 38.9 87.5 18.9 27.5 0.8 0.8 7.2 18.7 Interest rate swaps: liability Net settled 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 9 Share capital Details of the share capital of the Company are included in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
co. uk 165 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2017 165
