Independent Auditors report continued Materiality Audit work performed for the Groups UK and Irish operations was We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial performed by the Group and UK audit team.
The Group audit partner statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a visited all components, attending key meetings with both component reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use auditors and local management.
materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating Audit work in UK and Ireland, Italy, and Germany and Austria was performed the results of our work.
at levels of materiality which were lower than Group materiality and ranged Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the from 35 million to 60 million, depending on the components contribution financial statements as a whole as follows: to the Groups profit before tax.
Group materiality Other information 65 million 2016: 50 million The Directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other Basis for determining materiality than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
This represents 8% of normalised pre-tax profit after removing advisory fees and additional costs incurred in respect of the 21st Century Fox Offer Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other 2016: 7%, 8% of statutory profit before tax 2016: 7%, and 5% of adjusted information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our profit before tax 2016: 4%.
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
Rationale for the benchmark applied In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility As Sky plc is a public interest entity with listed equity we determined is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other normalised pre-tax profit after removing fees incurred in respect of the information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our 21st Century Fox Offer to be the most appropriate benchmark.
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
The Groups adjusted profit before tax measure further excludes additional items including the impact of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material integration and operating efficiency, derivatives not qualifying for hedge misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material accounting and the tax effect of these adjusting items see note 7 for misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of managements definition and reconciliation to adjusted profit for further the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we details.
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
Group materiality 65 million In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as Component uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include materiality where we conclude that: range 35 million to 60 million Normalised PBT Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the 859 million Directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups Audit Committee performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent reporting threshold PBT Group Materiality 3.25 million with our knowledge obtained in the audit: or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the Audit We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us Committee all audit differences in excess of 3.25 million 2016: 2.5 million, to the audit committee: or as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall Code the parts of the Directors statement required under the Listing presentation of the financial statements.
Rules relating to the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor An overview of the scope of our audit in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a Our audit scope is consistent with the prior year and includes the Groups departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
UK and Irish, German and Austrian, and Italian operations, all of which were We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
subject to a full scope audit for the year ended 30 June 2017.
As a result all of the Groups assets, revenue and adjusted profit before tax are subject Responsibilities of Directors to an audit either scoped by our component audit teams to their respective As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the component materiality or by the Group audit team.
The Group audit team Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements directed, supervised and reviewed the work of the component auditors and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such for Germany and Austria and for Italy, which involved issuing detailed internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable instructions, holding regular discussions with component audit teams, the preparation of financial statements that are free from material making multiple visits to each location throughout the year, performing misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
detailed file reviews and attending local audit meetings with management.
