Glossary AGM Annual General Meeting.
Gene editing The process that allows precise changes to be made in the genome of the Artificial insemination or AI animal without introducing genetic material from Using semen collected from a bull or boar to another organism.
impregnate a cow or sow when in estrus.
Artificial insemination allows a genetically superior male to Genetic lag The amount of time required to be used to mate with many more females than disseminate genetic gain from a nucleus herd to the would be possible with natural mating.
Biosecurity The precautions taken to reduce the Genetic nucleus A specialised pig herd, where chance of transmitting disease agents from one Genus PIC keeps its pure lines.
Pigs are genetically livestock operation to another.
tested at the nucleus to select the best animals to produce the next generation.
Genomic bull A bull which has been assessed BRD Bovine Respiratory Disease, a complex, through genomic testing.
This typically refers to bacterial and viral infection that causes lung disease bulls which have not been progeny-tested.
in cattle particularly calves and is often fatal.
Genomically tested An animal that has been DNA CEO Chief Executive Officer.
Genomics The study of the genome, which is the DNA sequence of an animals chromosomes.
Gilt A young female pig, which has not yet given COO Chief Operating Officer.
GMS ABSs Genetic Management System, which creates a genetic solution tailored to each individual CRISPR-Cas 9 Technology which accurately dairy producer to obtain improved herd genetics.
targets and cuts DNA to produce precise and controllable edits to the genome.
Grandparent The relationship of a breeding pig to the generation of terminal market pigs.
grandparent produces parents, who in turn produce the commercial generation of terminal pigs.
DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Group Genus plc and its subsidiary companies.
Farrow When a sow gives birth to piglets.
INAD Investigational New Animal Drug.
FDA US Food and Drug Administration.
IVB In Vitro Brasil S. A. GELT Genus Executive Leadership Team.
In vitro fertilisation or IVF The fertilisation of an Gender skew The ability to influence the oocyte with semen outside an animal in a proportion of offspring being of a particular sex.
laboratory for transfer into a surrogate.
Genetic gain The change of the genetic make up Index Indices A formula incorporating of a particular animal population in response to economically important traits for ranking the having selected parents that excelled genetically genetic potential of animals as parents of the next for important traits.
| 160 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 Integrated pork producer Producers of pork PSP Performance Share Plan.
typically involved in raising animals to slaughter weight all the way through to packaged and or R&D Research and development.
R&D PMT Research and Development Portfolio IP Intellectual property.
RMS ABSs Reproductive Management System, which is a systematic approach to maximising Line Multiple animals that have been mated pregnancy production and its contribution to herd together in a closed breeding population.
can have their origins in one founding breed or in several breeds.
Market pig equivalents MPE A calculated RWD ABSs Real World Data System of observed measure of the number of terminal pigs, of which performance data from many dairy herds.
each pig accounts for half a male MPE and half a female MPE, produced by each invoiced product.
Sire The male parent of an animal.
Sire line The male line selected for traits desirable for the market.
Multiplier A producer whose farm contains grandparent sows.
The farm crosses together two Sow A female pig which has given birth at least lines of grandparents, multiplying the number once.
of genetically improved parents that are available for sale.
Straw A narrow tube used to package frozen bull semen.
Stud Locations where bulls or boars are housed Net Merit NM A multi-trait selection index and their semen collected, evaluated, diluted into published by the U. S. Council on Dairy Cattle multiple doses straws and packaged, ready for Breeding CDCB, based on the economic value shipping to farms.
of yield, fitness and conformation evaluations.
Trait A measurable characteristic that may be a NMR National Milk Records plc.
PEDv Porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus, which TransitionRight Genus ABSs patent-pending causes older pigs to lose weight and is usually fatal genetic selection tool to help prevent multiple post for newborn piglets.
calving metabolic disorders that occur during transition.
Unit A straw of frozen bull semen or tube bag of PQA Pork Quality Assurance.
fresh boar semen sold to a customer.
Progeny tested Elite animals whose genetic value Terminal boars The male pig that is used to mate as a parent has been tested and validated through with a parent female to produce a terminal pig.
the performance of their offspring.
2013 2018 The year ending 30 June respectively.
PRRSv Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome virus.
