Group financial record Unaudited supplemental information Consolidated results Below is selected financial information for the Group under IFRS as at and for each of the five years ended 30 June.
2 Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2017 are costs of 140 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 50 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group, costs of 40 million relating to share-based payments incurred as a result of the 21st Century Fox Offer, costs of 16 million relating to advisory fees associated with the 21st Century Fox Offer and costs of 258 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2016 are costs of 4 million in relation to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, costs of 142 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 84 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group, costs of 343 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles and costs of 8 million relating to the remeasurement of derivative financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting and hedge ineffectiveness.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2015 are costs of 50 million in relation to advisory and transaction fees incurred on the purchase of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia, costs of 105 million relating to corporate restructuring and efficiency programmes, costs of 10 million relating to the integration of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia in the enlarged Group and costs of 231 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2014 are costs of 49 million relating to the integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business, costs of 40 million relating to a corporate restructuring and efficiency programme, 2 million as a result of the termination of an escrow agreement with a current wholesale operator and 23 million relating to the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Included within operating expense for the year ended 30 June 2013 is a credit of 32 million in relation to a credit note received following an Ofcom determination, a credit of 33 million relating to the final settlement of disputes with a former manufacturer of set-top boxes net of associated costs, costs of 31 million relating to one-off upgrade of set-top boxes, costs of 33 million relating to a corporate efficiency programme and costs of 15 million relating to the acquisition and integration of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business.
Also included are costs of 25 million relating to the programme to offer wireless connectors to selected Sky Movies customers.
3 Wholesale customers are customers who take a package, from one of Skys Wholesale Partners, in which they receive at least one paid-for Sky channel.
Annual Report 2017 139 Group financial record Unaudited supplemental information continued Consolidated results continued Factors which materially affect the comparability of the selected financial data Basis of preparation Fiscal 2016 includes 53 weeks of trading compared with 52 weeks in all other years.
Discontinued operations During fiscal 2015, the Group sold a controlling stake in its online betting and gaming business.
Available-for-sale investment During fiscal 2015, the Group disposed of its remaining investment in ITV.
Business combinations and profit on disposal of associate During fiscal 2015, the Group completed the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia.
The results of these acquisitions were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 12 November 2014.
As part of the consideration for the purchase of Sky Italia the Group disposed of its shareholding in the National Geographic channel.
During fiscal 2013, the Group completed the acquisition of the O2 consumer broadband and fixed-line telephony business from Telefnica UK, comprising 100% of the share capital of Be Un Limited.
The results of this acquisition were consolidated from the date on which control passed to the Group 30 April 2013.
Exchange rates A significant portion of the Groups liabilities and expenses associated with the cost of programming acquired from US film licensors together with set-top box costs are denominated in US dollars.
A significant portion of the Groups revenues and expenses associated with its operations in Germany and Austria and Italy are denominated in euros.
For a discussion of the impact of exchange rate movements on the Groups financial condition and results of operations, see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements.
