Notes to the consolidated financial statements or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or 1.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases the United Kingdom UK and registered in England and Wales.
to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and iii.
Non-controlling interests jointly controlled entities.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries a Statement of compliance are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the acquisition with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the the date of the acquisition.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the Standards Board IASB.
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisitionb Basis of preparation by-acquisition basis.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial assets the non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements which became effective d Goodwill this year, none of which had a significant impact on the Groups results or Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of financial position.
transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2017, this date was 2 July 2017, value cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identifiable this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2016: 3 July 2016, 53 week year.
assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the accounting period In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has classified assets and Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under liabilities as current when they are expected to be realised in, or intended the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for sale or consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included Adjusted measures disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill exclude items that may distort comparability in order to provide a measure written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which of underlying performance.
Such items arise from events or transactions is not reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management or loss on disposal.
believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Adjusted measures are not defined terms under IFRS Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least and may not be comparable to similar measures used elsewhere.
annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment c Basis of consolidation identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not i.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for direct the relevant activities that affect the Companys returns and impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control i. Intangible assets ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business is ii.
Associates and joint ventures recognised as an intangible asset from the point that the Group has the Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits from not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
Joint the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates and joint Other intangible assets which are acquired by the Group separately or ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant influence through a business combination are initially stated at cost or fair value, or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting The amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When the for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil expense over the assets useful economic life in order to match the because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent in the asset.
that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, 88 Sky plc Financial statements Principal useful economic lives used for this purpose are: f Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure Trademarks 5 to 25 years straight-line over to fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates.
licence period, as applicable Derivatives are held at fair value from the date on which a derivative Internally generated 3 to 5 years straight-line contract is entered into.
Fair value is defined as the price that would be intangible assets received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly Software development external 3 to 7 years straight-line transaction between market participants at the measurement date under and software licences IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The Group calculates a separate credit valuation adjustment CVA or debit valuation adjustment DVA for each Acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships derivative based upon the net position for each counterparty relationship.
Relating to the acquired customer 15 years straight line basis The Group calculates the CVA where it has a net asset position using a base in Germany and Austria quoted credit default swap curve for the counterparty and calculates the DVA where it has a net liability position using an industry proxy credit Relating to the acquired customer 15 years reducing balance basis default swap curve for the Group.
The fair value of derivative financial base in Italy instruments is calculated by discounting future cash flows with reference Relating to acquired customer 3 to 12 years straight-line to the benchmark Libor curve, adjusted by the relevant credit default swap bases in UK and Ireland curve.
Certain derivatives held by the Group which relate to highly probable forecast transactions hedged items, which meet qualifying criteria under Relating to other customer 8 to 25 years straight-line IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement IAS 39, are relationships in UK and Ireland designated as cash flow hedges.
Other derivatives which hedge changes Other intangible assets 1 to 5 years straight-line in fair value of fixed rate financial instruments and meet the requirements of IAS 39 are designated as fair value hedges.
Certain borrowings and For acquired customer contracts and related customer relationships, the derivatives have been designated as net investment hedges of the Groups assets are amortised on either a reducing balance basis or on a straightforeign operations for movements in the spot foreign exchange rate, see line basis depending on which more accurately reflects the pattern of section r for further details.
Certain other derivatives held by the Group how future economic benefits will be consumed, as determined by the do not meet the qualifying criteria for recognition for accounting purposes estimated customer retention profile.
as hedges, despite this being their economic function.
Changes in the If the assets useful economic life is judged to be indefinite or the asset fair values of these derivatives are recognised immediately in the is not yet available for use, no amortisation is charged and an impairment income statement.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for test is carried out at least annually.
Other intangible assets are tested speculative purposes.
for impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
i. Derivatives that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting ii.
Property, plant and equipment Changes in the fair values of derivatives that are designated as cash flow Owned PPE is stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and any hedges cash flow hedging instruments are initially recognised in the impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When an item of PPE comprises hedging reserve.
In circumstances in which the derivative used is a currency major components having different useful economic lives, the components option, only changes in the intrinsic value of the option are designated are accounted for as separate items of PPE.
under the cash flow hedging relationship, with all other movements being recorded immediately in the income statement.
Assets held under finance leases, which confer rights and obligations similar to those attached to owned assets, are treated as PPE Amounts accumulated in the hedging reserve are subsequently recognised see accounting policy n. in the initial cost or other carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability on the balance sheet and affect the income statement in the The cost of PPE, less estimated residual value, is depreciated in operating periods in which the related hedged items are recognised in the income expense on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life.
At inception, the effectiveness of the Groups cash flow hedges assets that are not yet available for use are not depreciated.
Principal is assessed through a comparison of the principal terms of the hedging useful economic lives used for this purpose are: instrument and the underlying hedged item.
The ongoing effectiveness of Freehold buildings 25 to 40 years the Groups cash flow hedges is assessed using the dollar-offset approach, with the expected cash flows of hedging instruments being compared Equipment, furniture and fixtures 3 to 20 years to the expected cash flows of the hedged items.
This assessment is used Set-top boxes and routers 5 to 7 years to demonstrate that each hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective on inception, has been highly effective in the period and is expected Assets under finance leases and Lesser of lease term and the to continue to be highly effective in future periods.
The measurement of leasehold improvements useful economic life hedge ineffectiveness for the Groups hedging instruments is calculated Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or using the hypothetical derivative method, with the fair values of the hedging production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a instruments being compared to those of the hypothetical derivative substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are that would result in the designated cash flow hedge achieving perfect added to the cost of those assets until such time as the assets are hedge effectiveness.
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The excess of the cumulative change in the fair value of the actual hedging To the extent that the financing for a qualifying asset is part of the Groups instrument compared to that of the hypothetical derivative is deemed to general borrowings, the interest cost to be capitalised is calculated based be hedge ineffectiveness, which is recognised in the income statement.
upon the weighted average cost of borrowing to the Group excluding the The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness, in interest on any borrowings specific to any qualifying assets.
This is then accordance with IAS 39, and any relationship which has effectiveness applied to the expenditures on the asset.
outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period to suspended.
Annual Report 2017 89 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Sports the majority or all of the cost is recognised in the income 1.
Accounting policies continued statement on the first broadcast or, where the rights are for multiple When a cash flow hedging instrument expires, is terminated or is exercised, seasons or competitions, such rights are recognised principally on a or if a hedge no longer meets the qualifying criteria for hedge accounting, straight-line basis across the seasons or competitions.
Where the rights any cumulative gain or loss existing in the hedging reserve at that time are packaged, sold and or significantly consumed over the off-season, remains in the hedging reserve and is recognised in the initial cost or other the Group allocates an appropriate portion of the total rights value to carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability on the balance sheet the off-season period, and that cost is recognised on a straight-line basis provided that the underlying transaction is still expected to occur.
When a over the off-season period.
forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or News the cost is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
loss that was reported in the hedging reserve is immediately recognised in the income statement and all future changes in the fair value of the cash Movies the cost is recognised in the income statement on a straightflow hedging instruments are immediately recognised in the income line basis over the period for which the broadcast rights are licensed.
General entertainment the cost relating to acquired, commissioned and ii.
Derivatives that qualify for fair value hedge accounting produced programming rights broadcast on the Groups linear channels The Group has designated certain derivatives as fair value hedges as are recognised in the income statement on either an accelerated or defined under IAS 39.
Any changes in the fair value of the derivatives are straight-line basis.
The amortisation profile is principally based on the recognised immediately in the income statement.
The carrying values of expected value of each planned broadcast on the Groups linear channels the underlying hedged items are adjusted for the change in the fair value and the time period over which the economic value of the content is of the hedged risks, with the gains or losses recognised immediately in the expected to be consumed and utilised.
Relicenced content is amortised income statement, offsetting the fair value movement on the derivative.
on a straight-line basis over the time period the rights are expected to be utilised.
The cost attributable or apportioned to non-linear on demand Prospective effectiveness is assessed quarterly, through a comparison of rights is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of broadcast the principal terms of the hedging instrument and the underlying hedged rights.
item, including the likelihood of default by the derivative counterparty.
The retrospective effectiveness of the Groups fair value hedges is The Group regularly reviews its programming rights for impairment.
Where calculated quarterly using the cumulative dollar-offset approach, with programme broadcast rights are surplus to the Groups requirements, movements in the fair value of the hedged item being compared to and no gain is anticipated through a disposal of the rights, or where the movements in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
programming will not be broadcast for any other reason, a write-down to the income statement is made.
Any reversals of inventory write-downs The Group uses a range of 80% to 125% for hedge effectiveness and any are recognised as reductions in operating expense.
relationship which has effectiveness outside this range is deemed to be ineffective and hedge accounting is suspended.
Programme distribution rights Programme distribution rights are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, iii.
Embedded derivatives net of the accumulated expense charged to the income statement to date.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and The cost of the programme distribution rights is recognised in operating characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and expense in line with the profile of expected revenue generation.
the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised gains or iii.
Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded derivatives are carried Set-top boxes, routers and related equipment held for sale to customers on the balance sheet at fair value from the inception of the host contract.
are valued at the lower of cost and NRV, the latter of which reflects the Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement during value that the business expects to realise from the set-top boxes and the period in which they arise.
related equipment in the hands of the customer, and are recognised g Inventories through the operating expense line of the income statement.
Acquired and commissioned television programme rights for broadcast is expensed on enablement, which is the process of activating the viewing Programme inventories for broadcast are stated at the lower of cost and card during installation, so as to enable a viewer to view encrypted net realisable value NRV, including, where applicable, estimated broadcast services, and effectively represents the completion of the subscriber escalation payments, and net of the accumulated expense installation process for new customers.
The amount recognised in the charged to the income statement to date.
income statement is determined on a weighted average cost basis, in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories.
Such programming rights are included as inventories when the legally enforceable licence period commences and all of the following conditions iv.
Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale have been met: a the cost of each programme is known or reasonably Raw materials, consumables and goods held for resale are valued at determinable: b the programme material has been accepted by the Group the lower of cost and NRV.
The cost of raw materials, consumables and in accordance with the conditions of the rights, and c the programme is goods held for resale is recognised through the operating expense line available for its first showing.
Prior to being included in inventories, the of the income statement on a first-in-first-out basis.
programming rights are classified as television programme rights not yet h Financial assets and liabilities available for transmission and not recorded as inventories on the Groups Directly attributable transaction costs are included in the initial balance sheet and are instead disclosed as contractual commitments see measurement of financial assets and liabilities only with respect to those note 25.
Payments made in advance of the legal right to broadcast the assets and liabilities that are not subsequently measured at fair value programmes are treated as prepayments in trade and other receivables.
At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses The cost of television programme inventories is recognised in the operating whether there is any objective evidence that any financial asset is impaired.
expense line of the income statement, over the period the Group utilises Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet and consumes the programming rights, applying linear-broadcast and when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the time-based methods of amortisation depending on the type of programme financial asset or liability.
Financial assets are derecognised from the right, taking into account the circumstances primarily as described below.
balance sheet when the Groups contractual rights to the cash flows expire These circumstances may change or evolve over time and as such, the or the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of the Group regularly reviews and updates the method used to recognise financial asset.
Financial liabilities are derecognised from the Groups programming expense.
balance sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
90 Sky plc Financial statements i. Available-for-sale investments An impairment is recognised in the income statement whenever the Equity investments intended to be held for an indefinite period are carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its classified as available-for-sale investments.
They are carried at fair recoverable amount.
An impairment of an investment in a joint venture value, where this can be reliably measured, with movements in fair value or associate is recognised within the share of profit from joint ventures recognised directly in the available-for-sale reserve.
Where the fair and associates.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price, value cannot be reliably measured, the investment is carried at cost.
defined as the fair value less costs to sell, and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their Any impairment losses in equity investments classified as available-for-sale present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market investments are recognised in the income statement and are not reversible assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset.
through the income statement unless or until the investment is disposed Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual of, and are determined with reference to the closing market share price at asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating the date the impairment is observed.
Any subsequent increase in the fair unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses recognised in respect value of the available-for-sale investment above the impaired value will of cash generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount be recognised within the available-for-sale reserve.
of any goodwill allocated to those units, and then to reduce the carrying Available-for-sale investments are included within non-current assets amount of other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis.
unless the carrying value is expected to be recovered principally through An impairment loss for an individual asset or cash generating unit will be sale within the next 12 months, in which case they are included within reversed if there has been a change in estimates used to determine the current assets.
On disposal, the difference between the carrying amount recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised and and the sum of the consideration received and any cumulative gain or loss is only reversed to the extent that the assets carrying amount does that had previously been recognised directly in reserves is recognised in not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, the income statement.
net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been ii.
Trade and other receivables recognised.
Impairment of goodwill is not reversed.
Trade and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed j Provisions or determinable payments and, where no stated interest rate is applicable, Provisions are recognised when the Group has a probable, present legal are measured at the original invoice amount, if the effect of discounting or constructive obligation to make a transfer of economic benefits as a is immaterial.
Where discounting is material, trade and other receivables result of past events where a reliable estimate is available.
The amounts are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
recognised represent the Groups best estimate of the transfer of benefits An allowance account is maintained to reduce the carrying value of trade that will be required to settle the obligation as of the balance sheet date.
and other receivables for impairment losses identified from objective Provisions are discounted if the effect of the time value of money is evidence, with movements in the allowance account, either from increased material using a pre-tax market rate adjusted for risks specific to the impairment losses or reversals of impairment losses, being recognised liability.
Cash and cash equivalents k ESOP reserve Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, bank accounts, deposits Where the Groups ESOP purchases the Companys own equity shares, receivable on demand and deposits with maturity dates of three months the cost of those shares, including any attributable transaction costs, or less from the date of inception.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on is presented within the ESOP reserve as a deduction in shareholders demand and which form an integral part of the Groups cash management equity in the consolidated financial statements.
are also included as a component of cash and cash equivalents.
Short-term deposits Revenue, which excludes value added tax and transactions between This includes short-term deposits which have maturity dates of more than Group companies, represents the gross inflow of economic benefit three months from inception.
These deposits are initially recognised at fair from the Groups operating activities, and is measured at the fair value value, and then carried at amortised cost through the income statement of the consideration received or receivable.
The Groups main sources less any allowance for impairment losses.
of revenue are recognised as follows: v. Trade and other payables Subscription revenue includes revenue from residential and commercial Trade and other payables are non-derivative financial liabilities and are subscribers to TV, Mobile and home communication products, including measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Trade and over-the-top OTT subscriptions, and income from set-top box and other payables with no stated interest rate are measured at the original Mobile handset sales, installation, service calls and warranties.
Revenue invoice amount if the effect of discounting is immaterial.
is recognised, net of any discount given, as the goods or services are provided.
Borrowings Borrowings are recorded as the proceeds received, net of direct issue Transactional revenue includes the purchase of physical content, costs.
Finance charges, including any premium payable on settlement or OTT passes, pay per view and buy to keep content by residential and redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis commercial customers.
Transactional revenue is recognised, net of in the income statement using the effective interest method and are added any discount given, when the relevant goods or service are provided.
to the carrying amount of the underlying instrument to which they relate, Programme and channel sales revenue includes revenue from the sale to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
of channels and programmes across other platforms and internationally.
i Impairment Channel sales revenue is recognised as the services are provided on a At each balance sheet date, in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of wholesale basis to cable and other retailers and is based on the number Assets, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of all its assets excluding of subscribers taking the Sky channels, as reported to the Group by inventories see accounting policy g, assets classified as held-for-sale, the cable and other retailers, and the applicable rate card or contract.
financial assets see accounting policy h and deferred taxation see Programme sales revenue is earned from the production of programming accounting policy o to determine whether there is any indication that and the distribution of programming rights.
Production revenue any of those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
is recognised on a stage of completion basis, where the stage of completion is determined by comparing the proportion of costs incurred to date to the total estimated cost of the transaction.
Distribution revenue is recognised when the contract is signed and the final content has been delivered for customer exploitation.
Annual Report 2017 91 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued n Leases 1.
Accounting policies continued Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease Advertising sales revenue is recognised when the advertising is transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of broadcast.
Revenue generated from airtime sales, where Sky acts as an the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
agent on behalf of third parties, is recognised on a net commission basis.
Sub-lease income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line Other revenue principally includes income from technical platform basis over the term of the lease.
services and the provision of network services.
Other revenue is When the Group is a lessee recognised, net of any discount given, when the relevant goods or Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at service are provided.
their fair value on the date of acquisition, or if lower, at the present value of A bundle exists where a customer enters into contracts for goods and the minimum lease payments.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is services at or around the same time, where the transaction can only be included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments understood commercially with reference to the bundle of goods and are apportioned between finance charges and reductions to the lease services as a whole, and where there is price inter-dependency between obligations so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining the products in a bundle.
Where a customer purchases further products balance of the liability.
or services subsequent to the original sale, these are judged to represent The lease expense arising from operating leases is charged to the income contract modifications and are accounted for separately to the original statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Benefits bundle, with any associated discounts recognised against the additional received and receivable as incentives to enter into operating leases are products and services being added.
recorded on a straight-line basis over the When the Group sells a set-top box, installation or service and a lease term.
subscription in one bundled transaction, the total consideration from When the Group is a lessor the arrangement is allocated to each element based on their relative Assets which are provided under operating lease arrangements are fair values.
The fair value of each individual element is determined using recognised as assets within property, plant and equipment.
The assets vendor specific or third-party evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group remain in the economic ownership of the Group for the duration of the recognises for delivered elements is limited to cannot exceed the cash lease, and are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
Discounts are allocated to products on a pro-rata basis according to relative fair values, except where there is o Taxation, including deferred taxation observable evidence that the discount relates to one or more, but not all, The Groups liability for current tax is based on taxable profit for the year, products within the bundle.
and is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
m Employee benefits Wages, salaries, social security contributions, bonuses payable and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised using the balance non-monetary benefits for current employees are recognised in the sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the income statement as the employees services are rendered.
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Taxable Where the Group provides pensions to eligible employees through defined temporary differences arising from goodwill and, except in a business contribution schemes, the amount charged to the income statement in combination, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither the year represents the cost of contributions payable by the Group to accounting profit nor taxable profit are not provided for.
Deferred tax the schemes in exchange for employee services rendered in that year.
liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on The assets of the schemes are held independently of the Group.
investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, Liabilities in relation to employee obligations which are economically similar except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary to defined benefit pension schemes are accounted for as such under IAS 19. difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based Termination benefits are recognised as a liability at the earlier of when on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of the termination benefit amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that have been enacted and when the Group recognises any related restructuring costs, such or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
termination being before the normal retirement date or as the result of an offer to encourage voluntary redundancy.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and adjusted to reflect an amount that is probable to be The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain realised based on the weight of all available evidence.
Deferred tax is employees which must be measured at fair value and recognised as an calculated at the rates that are expected to apply in the period when the expense in the income statement, with a corresponding increase in equity.
liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities The fair values of these payments are measured at the dates of grant using are not discounted.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income option-pricing models, taking into account the terms and conditions upon statement, except where it relates to items charged or credited directly which the awards are granted.
The fair value is recognised over the period to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also included within equity.
during which employees become unconditionally entitled to the awards, Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally subject to the Groups estimate of the number of awards which will be enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities forfeited, either due to employees leaving the Group prior to vesting or due and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority to non-market-based performance conditions not being met.
Where an and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a award has market-based performance conditions, the fair value of the net basis.
award is adjusted for the probability of achieving these via the option pricing model.
The total amount recognised in the income statement as p Distributions to equity shareholders an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest, Dividends are recognised in the retained earnings reserve in the year in except where forfeiture is due to the failure to meet market-based which they are declared.
In the event of a cancellation, whether by the Group or by a participating employee, the compensation expense that The cost of repurchasing the Groups own equity shares for cancellation would have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period share buy-backs is recorded in retained earnings.
In addition, the nominal is recognised immediately in the income statement.
cost of shares repurchased is deducted from share capital and a matching credit is recorded in the capital redemption reserve.
92 Sky plc Financial statements q Earnings per share When IFRS 15 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective Basic earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by the financial statements, or with the cumulative impact of IFRS 15 applied the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: when the latter excluding the weighted average number of ordinary shares purchased approach is applied, it is necessary to disclose the impact of IFRS 15 by and held in the Groups ESOP during the year to satisfy employee on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting period.
The Group has not yet determined which method will be adopted.
IFRS 15 provides a single, principles-based five-step model to be applied Diluted earnings or loss per share represents the profit or loss for the year to all contracts with customers: attributable to equity shareholders of the parent company, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares used to calculate basic Identify the contract with the customer earnings, plus the weighted average number of dilutive shares resulting Identify the performance obligations in the contract, introducing from share options where the inclusion of these would not be antidilutive.
the new concept of distinct r Foreign currency translation Determining the transaction price Trading activities denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the entity at applicable monthly exchange rates.
Allocating the transaction price to the performance obligations Monetary assets, liabilities and commitments denominated in foreign in the contracts, on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
currencies at the balance sheet date are recorded at the rates of exchange Recognise revenue when or as the entity satisfies its performance at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign obligation currencies are translated to the functional currency of the entity at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the initial transaction.
Gains and IFRS 15 also introduces new guidance on, amongst other areas, combining losses from the retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included contracts, discounts, variable consideration, contract modifications and net in profit for the year.
requires that certain costs incurred in obtaining and fulfilling customer contracts be deferred on the balance sheet and amortised over the period The Groups presentational currency is pounds sterling.
Assets and an entity expects to benefit from the customer relationship.
liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are In the current year, management has conducted a detailed accounting translated at the applicable monthly average exchange rates.
Any exchange scoping analysis across each of the Groups operating segments and across differences arising are classified as equity within the foreign currency the products and services within the Groups revenue streams.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the Management has also assessed accounting implementation approaches acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the for each revenue stream in each segment based on the potential foreign operation and translated accordingly.
Gains and losses accumulated materiality, complexity and volatility of impacts.
in the foreign currency translation reserve are included in the income Qualitatively, management currently expects the following impacts: statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
The Groups revenue recognition for bundled subscription products will Gains and losses on those instruments designated as hedges of the net no longer be limited to cash received or consideration receivable for a investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent delivered element.
As a result, the Group will bring forward revenue for that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are recognised distinct products and services delivered at the start of a subscription in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to contract, where the price charged for those performance obligations is hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement lower than the stand-alone selling price.
This will correspondingly reduce for the period.
subsequent subscription revenue across the remainder of the customer s Reportable segments contract, but will not change revenue recognised in total or the amount or timing of associated cash flows.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires the segment information presented Where product or service discounts reduce the total consideration for a in the financial statements to be that which is used internally by the chief customers bundle, the revenue which will be brought forward for upfront operating decision maker to evaluate the performance of the business deliverables will be reduced.
The impact of discounts will be spread over and decide how to allocate resources.
The Group has identified the Board the minimum contract period.
There is also new guidance regarding how of Directors as its chief operating decision maker and the segment and to which products discounts should be allocated, which may result information presented in the financial statements is consistent with in differences to current treatments.
the internal reporting reviewed by the Board.
Under the guidance as to what constitutes distinct performance t Accounting Standards, interpretations and amendments to existing obligations, there may be differences compared to what the Group standards that are not yet effective currently considers to be separately identifiable deliverables.
The Group has not yet adopted certain new standards, amendments and Management will also need to consider any associated cost implications interpretations to existing standards, which have been published but are of any differences.
only effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 July 2017.
Under the guidance regarding contract modifications, the accounting for These new pronouncements are listed below.
The Directors are currently contract modifications not made at stand-alone sales price, is expected evaluating the impact of the adoption of these standards, amendments to differ compared to current accounting treatments.
and interpretations in future periods.
There may be certain costs to obtain customer contracts that will require Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative effective 1 January 2017 capitalisation and amortisation over the period the Group expects to Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised benefit from the customer relationship, compared to being expensed Losses effective 1 January 2017 as incurred, as currently.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based Payments effective 1 January 2018 Existing principal versus agent judgements require evaluation against IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advanced Consideration new guidance.
Should current judgements change, this could significantly effective 1 January 2018 change gross revenue and cost, but with no expected impact on operating profit.
Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance contracts effective 1 January 2018 Amendments to IAS 40 Investment Properties effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018 and is effective on the Group from 1 July 2018 onwards.
Annual Report 2017 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Critical accounting policies and judgements: 1.
Revenue see note 2 The phasing of revenue for long-term contracts may vary compared to Selecting the appropriate timing for, and amount of, revenue to be current treatments.
This may involve estimating the fair value IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 and is effective of consideration before it is received.
Judgement is required in determining on the Group from 1 July 2018 onwards.
which products constitute a bundle, and how revenue is allocated to products within the bundle.
When the Group sells a set-top box, installation The standard is expected to impact the classification and measurement or service and TV, home communications and or mobile subscriptions in one of financial instruments and is expected to require certain additional bundled transaction, the total consideration from the arrangement is disclosures.
allocated to each element based on its relative fair value.
The fair value of It introduces an expected credit loss model for the measurement of the each individual element is determined using vendor-specific or third-party impairment of financial assets, so it is no longer necessary for the credit evidence.
The amount of revenue the Group recognises for delivered event to have occurred before a credit loss is recognised.
elements is limited to the cash received or consideration receivable.
Discounts are allocated to products on a pro-rata basis according to It also introduces a new hedge accounting model that is designed to relative fair values, except where there is observable evidence that the more closely align with how entities undertake risk management discount relates to one or more, but not all, products within the bundle, activities when hedging financial and non-financial risk exposures.
so as to faithfully represent the commercial substance of the transaction.
The Group is currently assessing the impact of the accounting changes ii.
Taxation, including deferred taxation see notes 6 and 14 that will arise under IFRS 9.
The Groups total tax charge is the sum of the current and deferred tax IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 and is effective on the Group charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge necessarily involves from 1 July 2019 onwards.
a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose When IFRS 16 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution has been basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented reached with the relevant tax authority or, as appropriate, through a formal in the financial statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact legal process.
of IFRS 16 applied as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: Provisions for tax contingencies require management to make judgements when the latter approach is applied it is necessary to disclose the impact and estimates in relation to tax audit issues and exposures.
Amounts of IFRS 16 on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting provided are based on managements interpretation of applicable tax law period.
Depending on the adoption method that is utilised, certain and the likelihood of settlement and include any liability for interest and practical expedients may be applied on adoption.
The Group has not penalties.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax yet determined which method will be adopted.
Once considered to be probable, management IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and will primarily change lease accounting reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should for lessees: lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is expected to be similar be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of the likely to lease accounting under IAS 17.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 will be resolution of the issue through negotiation and or litigation.
The amounts similar in many respects to existing IAS 17 accounting for finance leases, recognised in the consolidated financial statements in respect of each but is expected to be substantively different to existing accounting for matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement, operating leases.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means the eventual resolution could differ from Where a contract meets IFRS 16s definition of a lease and new the provision and in such event the Group would be required to make an associated guidance, where the Group acts as a lessee, lease agreements adjustment in a subsequent period which could have a material impact will give rise to the recognition of a non-current asset representing the on the Groups profit and loss and or cash position.
right to use the leased item, and a loan obligation for future lease payables on the Groups balance sheet.
The key area of judgement in respect of deferred tax accounting is the assessment of the expected timing and manner of realisation or settlement Lease costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right of the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities held at the balance sheet to use asset and interest on the lease liability, which may impact the date.
In particular, assessment is required of whether it is probable that phasing of operating profit and profit before tax, compared to existing there will be suitable future taxable profits against which any deferred cost profiles and presentation in income statement, and will also impact tax assets can be utilised.
Specifically, the Group has a gross deferred the classification of associated cash flows.
tax asset relating to unused tax losses in Sky Deutschland of 727 million The Group is currently assessing the impact of the accounting changes 2016: 681 million, which is recognised net of the deferred tax liabilities that will arise under IFRS 16. principally arising from the fair value of acquired customer contracts in IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts effective 1 January 2021.
Sky Deutschland resulting in a net deferred tax asset for Sky Deutschland of 296 million 2016: 243 million, as described in note 14. not yet endorsed for use in the EU iii.
Acquisition accounting and goodwill see note 9 u Critical accounting policies and the use of judgement and estimates Judgement is required in determining the fair value of identifiable assets, Certain accounting policies are considered to be critical to the Group.
liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed in a business An accounting policy is considered to be critical if, in the Directors combination and the fair value of the consideration payable.
Calculating judgement, its selection or application materially affects the Groups the fair values involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions, financial position or results.
The application of the Groups accounting including expectations about future cash flows, discount rates and the policies also requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect lives of assets following purchase.
In order to determine the fair value of the Groups financial position or results.
programming rights acquired, specifically rights partially consumed or part way through licence periods, we assess material contracts and licences Below is a summary of the Groups critical accounting policies and details to determine whether the contracts concerned would be considered of the key areas of judgement and estimates that are exercised in their favourable or unfavourable by a market participant.
content, the Groups existing accounting policy is then applied.
94 Sky plc Financial statements Judgement is required in identifying the cash generating units to which The potential benefits associated with utilising programming.
Certain the goodwill is associated for the purposes of goodwill impairment testing.
high-profile or high-quality programming titles have additional value to Identification of cash generating units involves an assessment of the Group, as they attract new TV customers and encourage retention whether assets or groups of assets generate cash flows that are largely of existing TV customers, which directly influences subscription revenues.
independent of other assets or groups of assets.
Goodwill is then allocated As such, these programmes are able to retain more value throughout to each identified cash generating unit that is expected to benefit from their licence period than would be indicated when considering the the synergies of the business combinations from which goodwill has arisen.
expected customer viewing and consumption numbers alone.
The carrying value of the Groups goodwill balance is disclosed in note 9, The relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear rights is allocated by cash generating unit.
assessed based on the manner in which the Group expects to utilise the Judgement is required in evaluating whether any impairment loss has programming rights and the relative value perceived by customers for the arisen against the carrying amount of goodwill.
Those relative values may also differ based on the type and genre of programme.
Such values are reviewed by iv.
Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment the Group against current and expected future trends in customer see notes 10 and 11 viewing behaviour for the Groups programming and channels.
The value The assessment of the useful economic lives and the method of amortising apportioned to non-linear rights in addition to any separately acquired these assets requires judgement.
Depreciation and amortisation are non-linear rights is amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of charged to the income statement based on the useful economic life the broadcast rights, as the Group considers this to be the profile most selected, which requires an estimation of the period and profile over which closely aligned to its consumption of those rights.
A broadcast-based the Group expects to consume the future economic benefits embodied amortisation model is not relevant or appropriate for this type of right in the assets.
The Group reviews its useful economic lives on at least an as the Group makes the programmes available for a period of time rather annual basis.
than for a specified number of broadcasts.
Determining whether the carrying amount of these assets has any Key sources of estimation and uncertainty: indication of impairment also requires judgement.
Recoverability of deferred tax assets impairment is identified, further judgement is required to assess whether The recognition of deferred tax assets is contingent on the Groups the carrying amount can be supported by the net present value of future estimation of the future taxable income, particularly that of Sky cash flows forecast to be derived from the asset.
This estimation is supported by the Groups latest available cash flow projections and selecting the appropriate discount rate.
four-year forecast, which was considered by the Companys Board of Assessing whether assets meet the required criteria for initial capitalisation Directors, and extrapolated beyond the forecast period as disclosed requires judgement.
This requires a determination of whether the assets in note 14.
Given the nature of Sky Deutschlands subscription-based will result in future benefits to the Group.
In particular, internally generated business model, management has sufficient confidence in its ability intangible assets must be assessed during the development phase to to execute and realise these plans.
identify whether the Group has the ability and intention to complete the A consistent set of forecasts is used as the basis for assessing the carrying development successfully.
value of deferred tax assets with that used in the Groups annual v. Programming inventory for broadcast see note 15 impairment review of goodwill associated with Sky Deutschland, as The key area of accounting for programming inventory for broadcast that described in note 1 and note 9. requires judgement is the assessment of the appropriate profile over which As such, the carrying value of deferred tax assets is sensitive to the to amortise general entertainment programming.
This assessment requires method, assumptions and estimates underlying the calculations.
the Group to form an expectation of: We consider the sensitivity of the outcome to plausible changes in the number of times a programme will be broadcast on the Groups linear key inputs, as part of our assessments.
Uncertainty around key sources channels, and the time period over which the programme is expected to of estimation will be resolved over the passage of time, as future be utilised: performance materialises and latest forecasts are considered.
the relative value associated with each broadcast: and vii.
Goodwill impairment assessments Goodwill impairment assessments require the calculation of the the relative value associated with linear channel and non-linear recoverable amount of cash generating units to which the goodwill is programme rights.
Linear channel rights refer to the rights to broadcast associated.
Such calculation involves estimates of the net present value a programme on the Groups linear broadcast channels and non-linear of future forecast cash flows and selecting an appropriate discount rate.
rights refer to the rights to make a programme available on the Groups Alternatively, it may involve a calculation of the estimated fair value less on demand services.
costs to sell of the applicable cash generating unit.
In order to perform this assessment, the Group considers the following As such, the carrying value of goodwill is sensitive to the method, factors: assumptions and estimates underlying the calculations.
We consider the The frequency with which, and the time period over which, the sensitivity of the outcome to plausible changes in key inputs, as part of programme is expected to be utilised on the Groups linear channels and our assessments.
Uncertainty around key sources of estimation will be non-linear services.
This is usually based on a combination of the actual resolved over the passage of time, as future performance materialises period specified in the contract for the programme rights, an initial and latest forecasts are considered.
expectation of when airings will be scheduled and the alternative programming available to the Group within this period.
Linear rights are consumed as and when the programmes are broadcast: non-linear rights are consumed over the period the programme is made available.
Expectations as to the number of viewers a programme is likely to achieve for each individual broadcast on the Groups linear channels over the contractual broadcast period.
The number of viewers per broadcast directly influences advertising revenue for channels, although this consideration is partly influenced by the Groups assessment of the potential impact of the publicly available information on its competitors scheduling intentions against planned broadcasts.
