Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Genus plc, please send this document and the accompanying documents as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2017 Annual General Meeting of Genus plc the Company will be held at Buchanan Communications, 107 Cheapside, London EC2V 6DN on 16 November 2017 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, of which numbers 1 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and numbers 13 to 16 as special resolutions.
To receive the Companys audited Financial Statements and the Directors Reports for the year ended 30 June 2017 the Annual Report and Accounts.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2017, as set out on pages 60 to 77 of the Companys Annual Report 2017.
To declare a final dividend of 16.2 pence per ordinary share, payable on 1 December 2017 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 17 November 2017.
To re-elect Bob Lawson as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Karim Bitar as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Stephen Wilson as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Nigel Turner as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Lysanne Gray as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
To re-elect Duncan Maskell as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To re-elect Lykele van der Broek as a Director of the Company who, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company to hold office from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Company at which Financial Statements are laid and to authorise the Audit Committee of the Board to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
That the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of: 12.1.
2, 039,151.86 being 20,391,518 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Ordinary Shares representing one third of the issued share capital of the Company: and 12.2.
2, 039,151.86 being 20,391,518 Ordinary Shares representing a further third of the issued share capital of the Company, provided that i they are equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act and ii they are offered by way of an offer to holders of Ordinary Shares open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors to holders on the register on a fixed record date as the Directors may determine in proportion as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them on any such record date and to other holders of equity securities entitled to participate therein, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties under the laws of, or the requirement of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other matter a rights issue, such authority to expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following or, if earlier, the close of business on the day which is 15 months after the date on which this resolution is passed but so that the Company may, before the expiry of such period, make an offer or agreement which would or might require shares to be allotted or such rights to be granted after such expiry and the Directors may allot shares and grant rights in pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
| 162 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 Special Resolutions 13.
That subject to and conditional on the passing of resolution 12, the Directors be empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Act, to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury shares : 13.1. in c onnection with an offer of securities but in the case of the authority granted under paragraph 12.2 of resolution 12 above by way of rights issue only, as defined in that paragraph to the holders of Ordinary Shares on a fixed record date as the Directors may determine in proportion as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them, on any such record date and to such other holders of equity securities entitled to participate therein, but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any fractional entitlements or legal or practical difficulties under the laws of, or the requirement of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in, any territory or by virtue of shares being represented by depository receipts or any other matter: and 13.2. other than pursuant t o paragraph 13.1 above, to any person or persons up to an aggregate nominal amount of 305,872.78 representing not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 October 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 12 above, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares to be sold, after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That subject to and conditional on the passing of resolution 12, the Directors be authorised in addition to any authority granted under resolution 13 to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 12 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power shall be: 14.1. limit ed to the allotment of equity securities, or sale of treasury shares, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 305,872.78 representing not more than 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 October 2017 being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice : and 14.2. used only f or the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six months after the original transaction a transaction which the Directors of the Company determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice, and shall expire upon the expiry of the general authority conferred by resolution 12 above, save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted, or treasury shares sold, after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities or sell treasury shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power had not expired.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary Shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors think fit provided that: 15.1. the maximum aggr egate number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 6,117,455 representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 2 October 2017, being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice : 15.2. the minimum price, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 10 pence: 15.3. the maximum pric e, exclusive of any expenses, which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to the higher of: a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share, as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days immediately before the day on which such share is contracted to be purchased: and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary Share in the Company on the trading venues where the market purchases by the Company pursuant to the authority conferred by this resolution 15 will be carried out: and 15.4. the authority c onferred by this resolution shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following or the close of business on the day which is 15 months after the date of its passing whichever occurs first unless previously renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in general meeting, except that the Company may, before such expiry, enter into a contract for the purchase of Ordinary Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority, which will or may be completed by or executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this authority, and may purchase its Ordinary Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
That a General Meeting, other than an Annual General Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days notice and that such authority shall expire on the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting next following.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 163 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued The Board considers that all the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole and are therefore likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of all the proposed resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 108,874 shares representing approximately 0.178% of the existing issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
By order of the Board Registered office: Matrix House Basing View Basingstoke RG21 4DZ Registered in England and Wales with number 02972325 Dan Hartley Group General Counsel & Company Secretary 2 October 2017 | 164 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 Explanatory Notes This section contains an explanation of each of the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 12 are ordinary resolutions requiring the approval of a simple majority of shareholders present in person or by proxy and voting at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 13 to 16 are special resolutions requiring the approval of 75% of shareholders present in person or by proxy and voting at the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 1 To Receive the Annual Report The Chairman will present the Annual Report to the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 2 Approval of the Directors Remuneration Report The Company is required to offer an annual advisory vote on the implementation of the Companys existing remuneration policy in terms of the payments and share awards made to Directors during the year the Directors Remuneration Report and a separate binding vote on the Companys forward looking remuneration policy the Directors Remuneration Policy at least once every three years, or earlier if a change is made to the Directors Remuneration Policy, or if the advisory vote is not passed by shareholders.
Resolution 2 seeks shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration Report as set out on pages 60 to 77 of the Companys Annual Report 2017.
The Directors Remuneration Report gives details of the Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2017.
Resolution 2 is an advisory resolution and does not affect the future remuneration paid to any Director.
The report also includes details of the Remuneration Committees representations and activities.
The Companys auditor Deloitte LLP has audited those parts of the Directors Remuneration Report which are required to be audited and their report is issued in the Companys Annual Report 2017.
Shareholder approval for the Directors Remuneration Policy was given at the Companys Annual General Meeting held in November 2016.
As there are no proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy, it is not required to be offered at this years Annual General Meeting.
For ease of reference, a table summarising the Directors Remuneration Policy has been included on pages 78 to 81 of the Directors Remuneration Report, but that table does not form part of the Directors Remuneration Report for the purposes of resolution 2.
Resolution 3 Final Dividend Final dividends must be approved by shareholders but must not exceed the amount recommended by Directors.
If the meeting approves the recommended final dividend it will be paid out in accordance with resolution 3.
An interim dividend of 7.4 pence per Ordinary Share was paid on 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the register at 3 March 2017, resulting in a total dividend for the year of 23.6 pence per Ordinary Share.
Resolutions 4 to 10 Re-election of Directors In accordance with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors of the Company are required to offer themselves for annual re-election.
Biographies of all of the current Directors can be found on pages 42 to 43 of the Companys Annual Report 2017.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, that all Directors standing for re-election continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The Board has considered whether each of the independent Non-Executive Directors is free from any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of his or her independent judgement and has determined that each continues to be considered to be independent.
Resolution 11 Appointment of Auditor and Auditors Remuneration The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each general meeting at which accounts are presented, to hold office until the end of the next such meeting.
This resolution is recommended by the Audit Committee and proposes the reappointment of the Companys existing auditor, Deloitte LLP and gives authority to the Audit Committee to agree the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 12 Authority to Allot Shares Resolution 12 is proposed as an ordinary resolution and seeks the approval of shareholders, in accordance with section 551 of the Act, to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares for a period as stated in resolution 12.
The Investment Association IA guidelines on directors authority to allot shares state that IA members will regard as routine resolutions seeking the authority to allot shares representing up to two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital, provided that any amount in excess of one-third of the Companys issued share capital is only used to allot shares pursuant to a fully pre-emptive rights issue.
In light of the IA guidelines, the Board considers it appropriate that Directors be granted authority to allot shares in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 4,078,303.72 representing two-thirds of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 2 October 2017 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice.
If the Company wishes to allot more than a nominal amount of 2,039,151.86 representing one-third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, then any additional amount can only be allotted pursuant to a rights issue.
The power will last until the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on the close of business on the day which is 15 months after the date on which resolution 12 is passed.
1 The Directors have no current intention to allot new Ordinary Shares other than in relation to the Companys employee share schemes and intend to comply with the guidance issued by the Investment Association.
However, if the Directors do exercise this authority, the Directors intend to follow emerging best practice as regards to its use.
As at the date of this Notice, no shares are held by the Company in treasury.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 165 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Resolutions 13 and 14 Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Resolutions 13 and 14 are special resolutions and give the Directors authority to allot Ordinary Shares in the capital of the Company pursuant to the authority granted under resolution 12 above for cash without complying with the pre-emption rights in the Act in certain circumstances.
Resolution 13 will permit the Directors to allot: a equity securities for cash and sell treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 4,078,303.72, representing two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at 2 October 2017 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice on an offer to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis that is including a rights issue or an open offer, with one-third being available only in connection with a rights issue in each case subject to any adjustments, such as for fractional entitlements and overseas shareholders, as the Directors see fit : and b equity securities for cash and sell treasury shares up to a maximum nominal value of 305,872.78, representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 October 2017 the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders.
Resolution 14 is being proposed as a separate resolution to authorise the Directors to allot additional equity securities for cash and sell treasury shares up to a maximum nominal value of 305,872.78, representing a further 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 2 October 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Notice, otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders for the purposes of financing a transaction or refinancing within six months of the transaction which the Directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment contemplated by the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles the Pre-Emption Group Principles.
The Pre-Emption Group Principles were revised in March 2015 to allow the authority for an issue of shares for cash otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer to be increased from 5% to 10% of the Companys issued share capital, provided that the Company confirms that it intends to use the additional 5% authority only in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed in the announcement of the issue a Relevant Acquisition or Specified Capital Investment.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to seek this additional 5% authority in resolution 14 to give the Company the flexibility that this resolution affords.
In line with Pre-Emption Group 2016 guidance, the annual disapplication of pre-emption rights is being proposed as two separate resolutions.
The Board intends to adhere to the provisions in the revised Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles and to not allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis in excess of an amount equal to 7.5% of the total issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares within a rolling three-year period, without prior consultation with shareholders.
The authority contained in resolutions 13 and 14 will expire upon the expiry of the authority to allot shares conferred in resolution 14 that is at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, on the close of business on the day which is 15 months from the date of these resolutions.
The Directors existing authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 15 Authority to Purchase Own Shares Resolution 15, is proposed as a special resolution and seeks authority for the Company to purchase up to 10% of its Ordinary Shares at, or between, the minimum and maximum prices specified in this resolution.
This power would be used only after careful consideration by the Directors, having taken into account market conditions prevailing at that time, the investment needs of the Company, its opportunities for expansion and its overall financial position.
The Directors would exercise the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares only if they considered it to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole and if the purchase could be reasonably expected to result in an increase in earnings per share.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase Ordinary Shares but consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility this resolution provides.
In considering whether to use this authority, the Directors will take into account factors including the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only if the Directors believe that to do so would result in an increase in earnings per share and would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of Ordinary Shares would be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange.
Under the Act, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury following a purchase of its own shares, instead of cancelling them.
Such shares may be resold for cash or used to satisfy share options and share awards under the Companys share incentive schemes but all rights attaching to them, including voting rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended whilst they are held in treasury.
If the Directors exercise the authority conferred by resolution 15, the Company will have the option of holding repurchased shares in treasury.
If resolution 15 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, it is the Companys current intention to hold in treasury all of the shares it may purchase pursuant to the authority granted to it.
However, in order to respond properly to the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market conditions, the Directors will reassess at the time of any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
| 166 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 At 2 October 2017 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, options were outstanding to subscribe for 1,447,510 Ordinary Shares, representing 2.3% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the full authority to purchase such shares existing and sought was exercised, they would represent 2.6% of the Companys issued share capital as at that date.
The authority sought at the Annual General Meeting will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting next following, or the close of business on the day which is 15 months from the date of this resolution whichever is earlier.
Resolution 16 Notice Period for General Meetings Resolution 16, is proposed as a special resolution and seeks the approval of shareholders to reduce to 14 clear days the notice period required for a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting.
The notice period required for general meetings for listed companies is 21 days but the Company may provide a shorter notice period of 14 clear days for meetings other than Annual General Meetings provided two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the Company offers a facility for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
This condition is met if the Company offers a facility, accessible to all shareholders, to appoint a proxy by means of a website.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction of the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days.
Annual General Meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
It is intended that the shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine for general meetings but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of the shareholders as a whole.
General Notes This Notice is being sent to all members and to any person nominated by a member of the Company under section 146 of the Act to enjoy information rights.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including the information required by section 311A of the Act, is available from www.
Proxies Members will find an attendance card and a form of proxy enclosed with this Notice.
If you are attending the Annual General Meeting, you should bring the attendance card with you.
Only holders of Ordinary Shares, or their duly appointed representatives, are entitled to attend, vote and speak at the Annual General Meeting.
Any member so entitled may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and to vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but must attend the Annual General Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the Company or another person who has agreed to attend to represent you.
Your proxy must vote as you instruct and must attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of how to appoint one or more proxies are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
A member may appoint more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
You may not appoint more than one proxy to exercise rights attached to any one share.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolution.
If no voting indication is given, your proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his or her discretion.
Your proxy will vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, a duly executed form of proxy for use at the Annual General Meeting together, if appropriate, with the power of attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed or a duly certified copy of such power or authority must be deposited at the offices of Equiniti Registrars, Freepost RTHJ-CLLL-KBKU, Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, BN99 8LU at least 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the Annual General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Alternatively, proxies may be appointed by having an appropriate CREST message transmitted, if you are a user of the CREST system further details are below.
In the case of a member which is a company, the proxy form must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
To change your proxy instructions you may return a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
Where you have appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and would like to change the instructions using another hard copy proxy form, please contact Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing BN99 6DA.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others.
Completion and return of a form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if they wish to do so.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose shares are held on their behalf by another person and who have been nominated to receive communications from the Company in accordance with section 146 of the Act nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered member who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 167 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Voting record date Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the time by which a person must be entered on the register of members of the Company in order to have the right to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is 6.30pm on 14 November 2017 or if the Annual General Meeting is adjourned, members on the register of members not later than 6.30pm on the day that is two working days prior to the reconvened Annual General Meeting.
Changes to entries on the register of members after the relevant time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote and the number of votes they may cast at the Annual General Meeting or adjourned meeting.
Documents on display Copies of contracts of service and letters of appointment between the Directors and the Company will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting until its conclusion.
CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for this Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 November 2017 at 11.00am and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual found on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK and Ireland Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this Notice of Annual General Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited do not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, as amended.
Corporate Representatives Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Total Voting Rights As at 2 October 2017 being the latest practicable date before publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital comprised 61,174,556 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company and, therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 2 October 2017 is 61,174,556.
The Companys website, referred to above, will include the contents of this Notice, information on the number of shares and voting rights and, if applicable, any shareholders statements, shareholders resolutions or shareholders matters of business received by the Company after the date of this Notice.
Questions Under section 319A of the Act, the Company must cause to be answered at the Annual General Meeting any question a member asks relating to the business being dealt with at the Annual General Meeting unless answering the question would interfere unduly with the preparation for the Annual General Meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information: the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: or it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the Annual General Meeting that the question be answered.
| 168 Genus plc Annual Report 2017 Requisition Rights Under section 527 of the Act, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on its website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys Accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstances connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Act.
The Company may not require the members requesting any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Act.
Where the Company is required to place a statement on its website under section 527 of the Act, it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Act to publish on its website.
Voting at the meeting In order for the voting preferences of all shareholders including those who cannot attend the meeting but who validly appoint a proxy, to be taken into account, a poll will be conducted on all resolutions at the Annual General Meeting this year.
Each shareholder and proxy present at the meeting will be invited to complete a poll card indicating how they wish to cast their votes in respect of each resolution.
The results of the voting will be posted on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Except as provided above, members who have general queries about the Annual General Meeting should call Equiniti registrars on 0371 384 2290.
Lines open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding UK public holidays.
If calling from overseas, please call the Equiniti overseas helpline number of 44 121 415 7047.
No other methods of communication will be accepted.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Annual General Meeting, or any related documents including the proxy form to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
| Genus plc Annual Report 2017 169 Notes Notes Notes
