Financial statements In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for Matters on which we are required to report by exception assessing the Groups and the Parent Companys ability to continue as a Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors opinion: either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease we have not received all the information and explanations we require for operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
our audit: or Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, not visited by us: or whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a accounting records and returns.
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the Directors remuneration aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
opinion certain disclosures of  have not been A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial made or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
This description forms part of We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Other matters Use of our report Auditor tenure This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, having been appointed by the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys Audit Committee in 2002 and covering the years ending 2002 to 2017. members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Consistency of the audit report with the additional do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company report to the audit committee and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the Audit or for the opinions we have formed.
Committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Paul Franek FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Statutory Auditor London has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
26 July 2017 In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the Parent Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors Report.
