Notes to the consolidated financial statements or where the Group has made payments on behalf of the associate or 1.
Where the disposal of an investment in an associate or Sky plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated in joint venture is considered to be highly probable, the investment ceases the United Kingdom UK and registered in England and Wales.
to be equity accounted and, instead, is classified as held for sale and The consolidated financial statements include the Company and its stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
subsidiaries together, the Group and its interests in associates and iii.
Non-controlling interests jointly controlled entities.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries a Statement of compliance are identified separately from the Groups equity.
Non-controlling interests The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the acquisition with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the the date of the acquisition.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders International Accounting Standard IAS Regulations.
In addition, the in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the Group also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the Standards Board IASB.
identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisitionb Basis of preparation by-acquisition basis.
In transactions with non-controlling parties that The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair concern basis as set out in the Directors Report and on an historical cost value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which basis, except for the remeasurement to fair value of certain financial assets the non-controlling interest is adjusted, is recognised in equity.
and liabilities as described in the accounting policies below.
The Group has adopted the new accounting pronouncements which became effective d Goodwill this year, none of which had a significant impact on the Groups results or Business combinations that have occurred since 1 July 2004, the date of financial position.
transition to IFRS the Transition Date, are accounted for by applying the acquisition method of accounting.
Following this method, goodwill is initially The Group maintains a 52 or 53 week fiscal year ending on the Sunday recognised on consolidation, representing the difference between the fair nearest to 30 June in each year.
In fiscal year 2017, this date was 2 July 2017, value cost of the business combination and the fair value of the identifiable this being a 52 week year fiscal year 2016: 3 July 2016, 53 week year.
assets, liabilities and contingent assets and liabilities assumed.
For convenience purposes, the Group continues to date its consolidated financial statements as at 30 June and to refer to the accounting period In respect of business combinations that occurred prior to the Transition as a year for reporting purposes.
The Group has classified assets and Date, goodwill has been included at the amounts recognised under liabilities as current when they are expected to be realised in, or intended the Groups UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP for sale or consumption in, the normal operating cycle of the Group.
accounting policies on the Transition Date.
On disposal of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture, the attributable amount of goodwill is included Adjusted measures disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in the determination of profit or loss on disposal, except for goodwill exclude items that may distort comparability in order to provide a measure written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to the Transition Date, which of underlying performance.
Such items arise from events or transactions is not reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent gain that fall within the ordinary activities of the Group but which management or loss on disposal.
believes should be separately identified to help explain underlying performance.
Adjusted measures are not defined terms under IFRS Goodwill is stated at cost less any impairment losses and is tested, at least and may not be comparable to similar measures used elsewhere.
annually, for impairment, based on the recoverable amounts of the cash generating unit to which the goodwill has been allocated.
Any impairment c Basis of consolidation identified is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not i.
The carrying amount of goodwill in respect of Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved associates and joint ventures is included in the carrying amount of the where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to investment in the associate or joint venture.
Goodwill is tested for direct the relevant activities that affect the Companys returns and impairment in line with accounting policy i below.
exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company from e Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment PPE the date control of the subsidiary commences until the date that control i. Intangible assets ceases.
Intragroup balances, and any unrealised gains and losses or Research expenditure is recognised in operating expense in the income income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated statement as the expenditure is incurred.
Development expenditure in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
relating to the application of research knowledge to plan or design new or substantially improved products for sale or use within the business is ii.
Associates and joint ventures recognised as an intangible asset from the point that the Group has the Associates are entities where the Group has significant influence, but intention and ability to generate probable future economic benefits from not control or joint control, over the relevant activities of the entity.
Joint the development expenditure, that the development is technically feasible ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control and that the subsequent expenditure can be measured reliably.
Any other of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
development expenditure is recognised in operating expense as incurred.
These consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total profit or loss and other comprehensive income of associates and joint Other intangible assets which are acquired by the Group separately or ventures using the equity method, from the date that significant influence through a business combination are initially stated at cost or fair value, or joint control commences to the date that it ceases, based on present respectively, less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
ownership interests and excluding the possible exercise of potential voting The amortisation of an intangible asset begins when the asset is available rights, less any impairment losses see accounting policy i.
When the for use, and is charged to the income statement through operating Groups interest in an associate or joint venture has been reduced to nil expense over the assets useful economic life in order to match the because the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in the associate expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied or joint venture, the Group only provides for additional losses to the extent in the asset.
that it has incurred legal or constructive obligations to fund such losses, 88 Sky plc
