Strategic report Operating responsibly Responsible gambling Oversight by the board is ensured by the boards responsible gambling committee, chaired by the Our purpose is to bring excitement and Rt.
During the year, the More information entertainment to the customers and committee examined and contributed to a number keepitfun.
We understand of critical matters, including the governments review of gaming machines and social responsibility and our responsibility to all in our the annual assurance statement submitted by Rank communities.
We aim to act with to the Gambling Commission.
The committee met the highest integrity and honesty with and gained key insights from Dr Simon Tanner of the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board and, in everything we do.
separately, Professor Ian McHale of Salford University who, along with Professor David Forrest, completed extensive research into machine play and indicators of problem gambling behaviour using anonymised Our customers responsible gambling data from Grosvenor Casinos.
2016 17 in review Two new roles were created by Rank during the year, Our commitment to acting responsibly is rightly clear a head of responsible gambling and a responsible to see in our commitment to minimise the potential gambling data scientist.
In particular, the data for harm from gambling.
Whilst the prevalence of scientist role has significantly enhanced Ranks gambling problems in Great Britain appears broadly analysis of historic player behaviour amongst digital stable, it is certain that the industry continues to customers, improving our ability to recognise risk and innovate at pace, introducing new products and to know when a responsible gambling intervention services and embracing the greater use of mobile may be helpful.
The challenge, not only for Rank gambling devices for those customers increasingly but for the whole industry, is to trial and determine seeking multi-channel access to gambling the effectiveness of a range of possible intervention entertainment.
The challenge presented by methods and to understand how to effectively time combatting problem gambling is itself increasingly any intervention so to have the greatest benefit in complex and evolving, but many of the same encouraging our customers to reflect upon their play.
technologies and developments can assist in this The coming year will see us continue to focus on this regard.
Any development of products and services important topic.
can and must be undertaken with as firm a focus The establishment of our new customer contact on meeting our social commitments, as well as our centre in Sheffield, the Customer Solutions Hub commercial objectives.
There can be no doubt that CSH, allows us to better embed our policies and our commitment to responsible gambling must procedures for responsible gambling and to improve remain and must grow and that we should be the monitoring of customers, particularly those a positive example for others in the industry.
The CSH, working across the Rank Building upon past investment, Rank took significant brands and channels to support and service customer steps in 2016 17 to increase the scale and impact of needs, is ideally placed to improve our joined-up its response to the prevention and detection of view of a customer and their experience wherever problem gambling.
The CSH will grow in experience to play a pivotal role in the delivery of our player protection initiatives.
During the year, extensive training has been provided to CSH employees to develop their awareness and understanding of problem and at-risk gambling and to know what to look for and how to respond when a customer, or the behaviour of a customer, suggests they may no longer be enjoying their play.
26 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 More information Responsible gambling committee 69 Responsible gambling in Cross-industry working the year ahead Rank remains committed to working collaboratively across the industry, most frequently through the In the latter part of 2016 17, Rank drafted a two-year respective bingo, casino and online gambling trade plan of activity to further advance its policies, systems, associations of which it is a member, to support and training and tools for responsible gambling.
2017 18 build on shared best practice and to encourage the will see the implementation of several initiatives highest standards in responsible gambling and designed to: player protection.
inform and improve the way we deliver responsible One such initiative to which Rank remains firmly gambling messaging to all our customers, and how committed is the ongoing development and we direct customers concerned about problem improvement of multi-operator self-exclusion gambling to professional help and support: schemes.
The ability for anyone recognising they enhance our ability to detect early and challenge have a problem to prevent their own access to behaviour that may indicate a problem or risk of gambling in the most effective way, so they may focus a problem: on their recovery and not be at risk of temptation, is give greater control to our customers to manage incredibly important.
In recent years we have seen the the time and money they spend and to improve implementation of the Bingo Industry Self-Exclusion their ability to review and consider their past play: Scheme BISES and the Self-Enrolment National Self-Exclusion SENSE scheme by the casino sector.
build upon existing training for our employees, Both enable a customer to prevent their own access ensuring they have the latest knowledge and for a minimum of six months to local and national awareness and understand how to act appropriately venues through a single enrolment.
We believe such when concern for a customer arises: schemes can be very beneficial to anyone experiencing improve internal awareness of responsible gambling harm from gambling.
Rank will continue to support initiatives across the Group to further embed player the development of the respective retail self-exclusion protection at a cultural level and to enhance schemes, including their review and evaluation.
cross-channel working: and evaluate and assess the impact and effectiveness of our responsible gambling policies and procedures, informing future development and investment.
com | 27 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued During 2017 18 Rank expects to see a similar scheme launched for our online gambling and we will very much welcome its arrival.
We know from the small percentage of our customers who self-exclude online, and from experts in the field of problem gambling treatment, that such a facility is greatly needed.
However, Rank remains concerned that the work on self-exclusion will still not be complete when the various self-exclusion schemes are all available and established.
Though self-exclusion is designed and intended for players experiencing a gambling problem, we are increasingly concerned that it is a facility also used by customers who might be dissatisfied by the service provided by a gambling operator even when a gambling problem is not present.
We think this may especially be the case in relation to gambling online where it is quick and easy to self-exclude with one operator and register with another.
Recent research by the Gambling Commission indicates that more than 40% of people entering a self-exclusion may have been doing so for reasons other than controlling spend with a particular operator or overall and therefore that assuming self-exclusion to be confirmation that a customer is experiencing problem gambling may, in some cases, not be correct.
Rank feels strongly that self-exclusion should be a reliable proxy for harm and that customers using self-exclusion for reasons of problem gambling can inform greatly the further improvement of efforts to protect others.
As a whole, but in particular perhaps by the online industry, more needs to be done to offer alternatives to dissatisfied customers and to encourage the use of self-exclusion only by those experiencing or at risk of a gambling problem.
We will continue to contribute our own efforts to this end and to raise best practice across the industry where we can.
28 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Our employees Celebrating our values 2016 17 in review Employees from across Rank attended the STARS launch event in Defined and launched Ranks new set of group-wide July 2016. values, STARS Identified and presented to all employees how the STARS values translate into behaviours for all individuals, leaders and teams within Rank Integrated the STARS values into the Groups performance management processes Harmonised pay and benefits across Grosvenor Casinos venues employees Launched a new group-wide centralised human resources system Our priorities for the year ahead Continue the review of operating structures to ensure effective and efficient working practices are in place Continue to develop our digital and IT capability to support business growth Improve employee engagement across the Group, with a particular focus on improving communication Continue the development of a new high-performance model to help assess and identify talented individuals within the Group Culture Back in 2015, Rank introduced a new strategic direction for the Group which relies on greater interdependence between and co-operation across Rank teams.
To engender a culture of working together to build capability and solutions rather than supporting brand, location and department silos, the Group developed, across all brands, a group-wide set of values with the following supporting purpose statement: Service We start with the customer.
We do everything in our power to deliver special service every time.
To bring excitement Service and entertainment Teamwork We pull together across brands, channels and to the customers and locations to perform at our very best.
Ambition We challenge the way we do things and explore To excite and to entertain new ways to excite and entertain our customers and outshine Employees across the business were consulted the competition.
Ambition to ascertain what values were considered key to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
The Responsibility We understand our responsibility to all in our Groups new values, STARS, were subsequently communities.
We act with the highest integrity and honesty in launched on 6 July 2016. everything we do.
Responsibility Solutions We act positively to get to the heart of problems quickly and find ways to solve them.
com | 29 Strategic report Operating responsibly continued Learning and development Positive progress has been made in the year against During the year, a total of 3,500 employees accessed both objectives, with a completion rate of 100% for in-house e-learning courses: this is in addition to Grosvenor managers completing the e-learning course in-house and external training courses attended and a completion rate of 97% for Mecca managers.
by employees which are not tracked centrally.
Rank also exceeded its target of reducing accidents Engagement within the UK, having achieved an overall reduction During the year two employee opinion surveys were of 22% across both Mecca and Grosvenor in the year.
sent to all Group employees.
The survey scores are Diversity a proxy for employee engagement levels within our Rank is committed to providing equal opportunities business.
Over the year employee engagement fell by for all its employees.
Ranks diversity policy ensures nine percentage points to 71%.
that every employee is treated equally and fairly and In addition, employees are asked questions on different that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
aspects of their working life at Rank.
Scores and Please refer to page 66 which outlines the boards comments are then reviewed and actions agreed diversity policy.
where appropriate to address any identified issues.
The charts below provide a breakdown of the gender Areas highlighted by the surveys included the need for of directors and employees at 30 June 2017. better channels for communicating within the business and more opportunities for training and development.
Disability Rank is committed to ensuring that people with Health and safety disabilities are supported and encouraged to apply The key objectives of the 2016 17 health and safety for employment with the Group and to achieve strategy were: progress whilst employed.
Disabled persons will be i to improve health and safety awareness across treated so that they have equal opportunities, so far the Group through management training: and as justifiable, to be selected, trained and promoted.
ii to reduce the number of employee and customer Human rights accidents in the UK by 10% from their level at the The board considers that it is not necessary for start of the year.
the Group to operate a specific human rights policy at present.
Our policies already operate within a framework to comply with relevant laws and to respect the human rights of our employees and other stakeholders in the business.
2 Board Senior management Whole Company 1 Male 7 Male 29 Male 5,240 1 FeMale 1 FeMale 13 FeMale 4,799 1 Excludes Alex Thursby, who was appointed to the board with effect from 1 August 2017.
2 Senior management is as defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulation 2013, and includes: i persons responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the company, or a strategically significant part of the company, other than company directors, and ii any other directors of undertakings included in the consolidated accounts.
30 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 About Carers Trust Our communities Carers Trust works to improve support, services and Rank Cares recognition for anyone living with the challenges of The year saw Rank continue the Rank Cares programme caring, unpaid, for a family member or friend who is with its charitable partner, Carers Trust.
Rank employees ill, frail, disabled or has mental health or managed to raise a fantastic 0.5m in the year and a addiction problems.
total of 1.5m since the start of the partnership in Carers Trust does this with a UK-wide network of February 2014. quality-assured independent partners and through The fundraising covers a wide range of activities from the provision of grants to help carers get the extra sponsored team challenges to employee payroll giving help they need to live their own lives.
through the Pennies From Heaven scheme.
With these locally based network partners, Carers The Rank Cares programme specifically supports Trust can support carers in their homes through the carers through a grant-giving programme which has provision of replacement care, and in the community resulted in 6,624 carers receiving support since the with information, advice, emotional support, hands-on start of the partnership.
practical help and access to much-needed breaks.
Employees have also given up their own time to Cares Trust offers specialist services for carers of volunteer at local carers services across the UK.
people of all ages and conditions and a range of More than 2,000 volunteer hours were completed individually tailored support and group activities.
by Rank employees in the year.
To find out more about the work Carers Trust does please visit its website at carers.
carers trust - action help advice Greenhouse gas emissions Year ended 30 June 2017 Year ended 30 June 2016 Tonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of CO e m Tonnes of CO e m 2 2 1 1 CO e % revenue CO e % revenue 2 2 Scope 1 Comprises gas use plus gasoil in Belgium, owned transport and fugitive F-gas emissions 17,616 28 17,001 27 Scope 2 Comprises electricity generation 32,135 50 32,605 50 2 Scope 3 Comprises waste, materials use, flights, electricity transmission and distribution 13,822 22 15,040 23 3 Outside of scopes Represents the biogenic proportion of petrol and diesel 32 34 Total 63,605 100 89.9 64,680 100 90.8 1 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gases expressed in terms of global warming 2 potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
2 Well-to-tank emissions for fuels electricity, gas, petrol, diesel and aviation fuel, which would sit within scope 3, are not included in the report.
3 This is categorised as outside scopes rather than scope 3, in line with the Defra 2015 emission factor guidance.
