Other information Shareholder information 2017 18 financial calendar Shareholder information A wide range of information for shareholders and investors 22 September 2017 Record date for 2016 17 final dividend is available in the Investors area of the Rank Group website: Annual general meeting and interim www.
19 October 2017 management statement 31 October 2017 Payment date for 2016 17 final dividend Frequently asked questions 1 February 2018 Interim results announcement We have a shareholder frequently asked questions section on our website which provides answers to many questions that Registrar shareholders have: www.
com en investors shareholderAll administrative enquiries relating to shares should, in centre faqs.
the first instance, be directed to the Companys registrar quoting reference number 1235 and clearly state the registered Capital gains tax shareholders name and address.
Please write to The Rank For the purpose of calculating UK capital gains tax on a disposal Group Plc Registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer of ordinary shares in the Company held since 31 March 1982 Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Tel: from the UK 0371 including shares held in the predecessor company, The Rank 384 2098 and from outside the UK 44 121 415 7047.
Organisation Plc, the price of the Companys ordinary shares at that date was 190 pence per share.
This price should be adjusted There is a text phone available on 0371 384 2255 for for the effects of the rights issue in January 1990, the enhanced shareholders with hearing difficulties.
share alternative in July 1993, the sub-division and consolidation Shareview of shares in March 1994, the enhanced scrip dividend in March The Shareview portfolio service from the Companys registrar 1998, and the 18 for 25 sub-division and share consolidation gives shareholders more control of their Rank shares and other aligned with the 65pence special dividend payment which investments including: took place in March 2007.
More information regarding these adjustments is available on the www.
direct access to data held for them on the share register Shareholder security including recent share movements and dividend details: We are aware that some of our shareholders have received a recent valuation of their portfolio: and unsolicited telephone calls concerning their Rank shares.
These a range of information and practical help for shareholders communications tend to be from overseas-based brokers who including how they can elect to receive communications offer a premium price for your Rank shares but ask you to make electronically.
an upfront payment, typically in the form of an insurance bond.
We recommend that before paying any money you: It is easy and free to set up a portfolio shareholders will just need the shareholder reference printed on their proxy form or obtain the name of the person and firm contacting you: dividend stationery.
Please visit the following website for more check the FCA register at www.
uk register to ensure details: www.
they are authorised: Payment of dividends use the details on the FCA register to contact the firm: The Company is no longer operating a dividend re-investment call the FCA consumer helpline on 0800 111 6768 if there are plan.
Shareholders may find it more convenient to make no contact details on the FCA register or you are told they are arrangements to have dividends paid directly to their bank out of date: and account.
The advantages of this are that the dividend is credited to a shareholders bank account on the payment date, there is search the FCAs list of unauthorised firms and individuals no need to present cheques for payment and there is no risk to avoid doing business with: www.
uk consumers of cheques being lost in the post.
To set up a dividend mandate or to change an existing mandate If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or please contact Equiniti Limited, our registrar, whose contact other investments, you will not have access to the Financial details are above.
Alternatively, shareholders who use Equinitis Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Shareview can log on to www.
co. uk and follow the Scheme FSCS if things go wrong.
Below please find the link to the FCAs website which gives information on scams and swindles which shareholders may find helpful: www.
Further information on fraud can be found at www.
uk Action Frauds helpline is 0300 123 2040.
146 | The Rank Group Plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 We recommend that you report any attempted share frauds to the authorities since providing information with regard to how the fraudsters have contacted and dealt with you will assist the authorities in understanding the fraudsters way of operating so as to enable them to disrupt and prevent these activities and prosecute them.
ShareGift Shareholders with a very small number of shares, the value of which may make it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating them to charity through ShareGift, a registered charity administered by The Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
Further information about ShareGift is available at www.
org or by writing to: ShareGift 17 Carlton House Terrace London SW1Y 5AH Tel: 020 7930 3737 For any other information please contact the following at our registered office: Frances Bingham, company secretary Sarah Powell, director of treasury and investor relations Registered office The Rank Group Plc, TOR, Saint-Cloud Way, Maidenhead SL6 8BN Tel: 01628 504 000 The Rank Group Plc Registered in England and Wales N 03140769 www.
