Financial Stat Financial statements ements Company cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements For the year ended 30 June 2017 2017 2016 1 General information comprehensive income.
Under IFRS 9, the Groups business m m model and the contractual cash flows arising from its investments Ashmore Group plc the Company is a public limited company listed Operating activities in financial instruments determine the appropriate classification.
on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated and domiciled in Operating profit 145.0 137.6 All equity investments within the scope of IFRS 9 are measured the United Kingdom.
The consolidated financial statements of the at fair value, with gains or losses reported either in the statement Company and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended Adjustments for: of comprehensive income or, by election, through other 30 June 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on Depreciation and amortisation 0.5 0.7 comprehensive income.
The impact will be on classification and 6 September 2017.
The principal activity of the Group is described in Accrual for variable compensation 15.4 27.1 presentation of the Groups seed capital investments, with limited the Directors report on page 75.
Unrealised foreign exchange gains 5.9 46.2 changes in measurement basis for available-for sale financial assets Dividends received from subsidiaries 99.2 89.6 2 Basis of preparation that will be measured at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group and Company financial statements have been prepared Cash generated from operations before working capital changes 55.8 29.6 In addition, IFRS 9 introduces an expected loss model for the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS assessment of impairment.
The current incurred loss model under Changes in working capital: as adopted by the European Union EU effective for the Groups IAS 39 requires the Group to recognise impairment losses when Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 36.0 49.8 reporting for the year ended 30 June 2017 and applied in accordance there is objective evidence that an asset is impaired.
The new Increase decrease in trade and other payables 18.5 12.2 with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. impairment model in IFRS 9 is based on the premise of providing Cash generated from operations 38.3 91.6 for expected losses, even in the absence of a default event.
The The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern Taxes paid 8.8 4.3 Group does not anticipate the impact of the expected losses to be basis under the historical cost convention, except for the material as a result of the nature of assets held and the low level Net cash from operating activities 29.5 87.3 measurement at fair value of certain financial assets that are of historical defaults.
available-for-sale or classified as at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers has been Investing activities The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section endorsed by the EU and deals with revenue recognition.
The Interest received 1.7 0.8 408 of the Companies Act 2006 that allows it not to present its standard provides a single, principles-based five-step model to individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes.
Loans repaid by advanced to subsidiaries 76.6 16.6 be applied to all contracts with customers to recognise revenue Dividends received from subsidiaries 92.3 189.6 in a manner that depicts the pattern of transfer of services to The preparation of financial statements requires management the customer.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6 to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
The standard application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, Net cash from investing activities 17.3 206.4 provides guidance on topics such as the point at which revenue income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions is recognised, accounting for variable consideration such as are based on historical experience and various other factors that Financing activities performance-based incentive fees, and costs related to obtaining are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results Dividends paid 116.6 116.1 and fulfilling investment management contracts.
The Group has of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying assessed that IFRS 15 will not have a material impact on its results Purchase of own shares 11.8 22.2 values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from or a material change to the estimation of management fee or other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Net cash used in financing activities 128.4 138.3 performance fees revenue: however, additional note disclosure Further information about key assumptions and other key sources will be required to update the Groups revenue recognition policy of estimation and areas of judgement are set out in note 32.
Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents 81.6 155.4 when the standard is adopted.
3 New standards and interpretations not IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and replaces yet adopted Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 301.4 114.5 IAS 17 Leases.
IFRS 16 requires all operating leases in excess of At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial one year, where the Group is the lessee, to be included on the Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9.9 31.5 statements, the following standards and interpretations relevant to Groups statement of financial position, and recognised as a rightCash and cash equivalents at end of year 229.7 301.4 the Groups operations were issued by the International Accounting of-use ROU asset and a related lease liability representing the Standards Board IASB but are not yet mandatory: obligation to make lease payments.
The ROU asset will be Cash and cash equivalents at end of year comprise: amortised on a straight-line basis with the lease liability being IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for annual periods beginning Cash at bank and in hand 19.3 9.4 amortised using the effective interest method.
Optional on or after 1 January 2018 exemptions are available under IFRS 16 for short-term leases Daily dealing liquidity funds 80.4 93.0 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for lease term of less than 12 months and for small-value leases.
Deposits 130.0 199.0 annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 Based on the preliminary assessment, the Group expects its 229.7 301.4 IFRS 16 Leases effective for annual periods beginning on or after existing operating lease arrangements as a lessee refer to note 30 1 January 2019, subject to EU endorsement to be recognised as ROU assets with corresponding lease liabilities The notes on pages 93 to 128 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The operating lease commitments on The Group completed an assessment of the impact of the new an undiscounted basis amount to approximately 1% of the standards on its financial statements during the year.
Overall, the consolidated total assets and 7% of consolidated total liabilities.
Group does not expect the implementation of these standards to The Group will complete a detailed impact analysis closer to the have a material impact on its results, net assets or regulatory capital adoption of IFRS 16. requirements.
However, the Group expects to update the relevant accounting policies when these standards come into force, as well No other standards or interpretations issued and not yet effective as making necessary presentational changes on the face of the are expected to have an impact on the Groups consolidated consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated financial statements.
4 Significant accounting policies IFRS 9 Financial Instruments has been endorsed by the EU and The following principal accounting policies have been applied replaces the classification and measurement models for financial consistently where applicable to all years presented in dealing instruments in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and with items considered material in relation to the Group and Measurement with three classification categories: amortised cost, Company financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
fair value through profit or loss and fair value through other 92 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 9 93 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed Basis of consolidation within structured entities.
These structured entities typically consist of The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedand joint ventures.
This includes an Employee Benefit Trust EBT ended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated the vehicles net asset value.
The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the Interests in subsidiaries management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group Subsidiaries are entities, including investment funds, over which the holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has control if it open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an which control commences until the date when control ceases.
The assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest Group reassesses whether or not it controls an entity if facts and that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence elements of control.
of an investment management agreement and or other contractual arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and to combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, the interests of fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from third parties in consolidated funds are classified as liabilities and the fund.
appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds on the Groups balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are presented as singleThe Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it line items in the statement of comprehensive income and balance has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, sheet refer to note 27.
Intercompany transactions and balances are considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund eliminated on consolidation.
Consistent accounting policies have and the assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
been applied across the Group in the preparation of the consolidated The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it financial statements as at 30 June 2017. has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of third-party investors.
A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of loss of control.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities The Group classifies the following investment funds as Interests in associates and joint arrangements unconsolidated structured entities: Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant which is subject to joint control.
and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund measured using the equity method of accounting.
Under this method, manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that the investments are initially recognised at cost, including attributable it acts as an agent for third-party investors.
goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition changes Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups share of posta direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdcomprehensive income.
party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
the fund as a financial asset.
Interests in consolidated structured entities The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28. considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the 94 94 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued relevant activities of the entity are directed by means of contractual Foreign currency equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control arrangements.
The Groups assets under management are managed of the acquiree.
The Groups financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling Basis of consolidation within structured entities.
These structured entities typically consist of Sterling, which is also the Companys functional and presentation The consolidated financial statements of the Group comprise the Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred, except if they unitised vehicles such as Socits dInvestissement Capital Variable currency.
Items included in the financial statements of each of financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries, associates are related to the issue of debt or equity securities.
SICAVs, limited partnerships, unit trusts and open-ended and closedthe Groups entities are measured using the functional currency, and joint ventures.
This includes an Employee Benefit Trust EBT ended vehicles which entitle third-party investors to a percentage of Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will which is the currency that prevails in the primary economic established for the employee share-based awards and consolidated the vehicles net asset value.
be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequently, environment in which the entity operates.
changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the Foreign currency transactions Interests in subsidiaries deemed to be a liability will be recognised in accordance with IAS 39 management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the respective Subsidiaries are entities, including investment funds, over which the in comprehensive income.
If the contingent consideration is classified holds a direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or functional currencies of the Group entities at the spot exchange rates Group has control as defined by IFRS 10.
The Group has control if it as equity, it will not be remeasured and settlement is accounted for open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted at the date of the transactions.
is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement within equity.
for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
If share-based payment awards replacement awards are required power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are at the balance sheet date are translated into the functional currency to be exchanged for awards held by the acquirees employees included in the consolidated financial statements from the date on Control is determined in accordance with IFRS 10, based on an at the spot exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and acquirees awards and relate to past services, all or a portion which control commences until the date when control ceases.
The assessment of the level of power and aggregate economic interest liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign of the amount of the acquirers replacement awards is included Group reassesses whether or not it controls an entity if facts and that the Group has over the fund, relative to third-party investors.
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of in measuring the consideration transferred in the business circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the Power is normally conveyed to the Group through the existence the transaction.
This determination is based on market-based value elements of control.
of an investment management agreement and or other contractual of the replacement awards compared with the market-based value Foreign currency differences arising on translation are generally arrangements.
Aggregate economic interest is a measure of the The profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive of the acquirees awards and the extent to which the replacement recognised in comprehensive income.
However, foreign currency Groups exposure to variable returns in the fund through a income are attributed to the equity holders of the Company and to awards relate to pre-combination service.
differences arising from the translation of the following items are combination of direct interest, carried interest, expected management any non-controlling interests.
Based on their nature, the interests of recognised in other comprehensive income: fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from Goodwill third parties in consolidated funds are classified as liabilities and the fund.
available-for-sale equity instruments: and appear as Third-party interests in consolidated funds on the Groups The cost of a business combination in excess of the fair value of balance sheet.
Associates and joint ventures are presented as singlequalifying cash flow hedges to the extent that the hedge net identifiable assets or liabilities acquired, including intangible The Group concludes that it acts as a principal when the power it line items in the statement of comprehensive income and balance is effective.
assets identified, is recognised as goodwill and stated at cost less any has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for self-benefit, sheet refer to note 27.
Intercompany transactions and balances are accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill has an indefinite useful life, considering the level of aggregate economic exposure in the fund Foreign operations eliminated on consolidation.
Consistent accounting policies have is not subject to amortisation and is tested annually for impairment and the assessed strength of third-party investors kick-out rights.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill been applied across the Group in the preparation of the consolidated or when there is an indication of impairment.
The Group concludes that it acts as an agent when the power it and fair value adjustments arising on consolidation, are translated financial statements as at 30 June 2017. has over the fund is deemed to be exercised for the benefit of Intangible assets into Sterling at the spot exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
A change in the ownership interest of a consolidated entity that The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated into The cost of intangible assets, such as management contracts and does not result in a loss of control by the Group is accounted for as The Group concludes that it has control and, therefore, will Sterling at rates approximating to the foreign exchange rates ruling brand names, acquired as part of a business combination is their an equity transaction.
If the Group loses control over a consolidated consolidate a fund as if it were a subsidiary where the Group acts at the dates of the transactions.
fair value as at the date of acquisition.
The fair value at the date of entity, it derecognises the related assets, goodwill, liabilities, as a principal.
If the Group concludes that it does not have control acquisition is calculated using the discounted cash flow methodology Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive non-controlling interest and other components of equity, and any over the fund, the Group accounts for its interest in the fund as a and represents the valuation of the profits expected to be earned income, and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve, gain or loss is recognised in consolidated comprehensive income.
from the management contracts and brand name in place at the except to the extent that the translation difference is allocated to Any investment retained is recognised at its fair value at the date of date of acquisition.
Interests in unconsolidated structured entities Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less The Group classifies the following investment funds as When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control is lost, Interests in associates and joint arrangements any accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Intangible unconsolidated structured entities: the cumulative amount in the foreign currency translation reserve Associates are partly owned entities over which the Group has assets are amortised, if appropriate, over their useful lives, which related to that foreign operation is reclassified to comprehensive Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the significant influence but no control.
Joint ventures are entities through have been assessed as being eight years.
income as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
If the Group disposes Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group which the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a foreign considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant Non-controlling interests NCI which is subject to joint control.
operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor NCI are measured at their proportionate share of the acquirees Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are the cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interests.
has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Changes to the Groups measured using the equity method of accounting.
As a result, the Group concludes that If the settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are the investments are initially recognised at cost, including attributable it acts as an agent for third-party investors.
a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable accounted for as equity transactions.
goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition changes Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds future, foreign currency differences arising on the item form part in the Groups share of net assets.
The Groups share of posta direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the Property, plant and equipment of the net investment in the foreign operation and are recognised acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the statement of Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to thirdProperty, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated in other comprehensive income, and accumulated in the foreign comprehensive income.
party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by depreciation and impairment losses.
Cost is determined on the basis currency translation reserve within equity.
the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
of the direct and indirect costs that are directly attributable.
Property, Where the Groups financial year is not coterminous with those As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party Business combinations plant and equipment are depreciated using the straight-line method of its associates or joint ventures, unaudited interim financial investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition over the estimated useful lives, assessed to be five years for office information is used after appropriate adjustments have been made.
method as at the acquisition date.
The acquisition date is the date equipment and four years for IT equipment.
The residual values and Interests in consolidated structured entities on which the acquirer effectively obtains control of the acquiree.
useful lives of assets are reviewed at least annually.
The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and The Group acts as fund manager to investment funds that are unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28.
The consideration transferred for the acquisition is generally considered to be structured entities.
Structured entities are entities measured at the acquisition date fair value, as are the identifiable that have been designed so that voting or similar rights are not the net assets acquired, liabilities incurred including any asset or liability dominant factor in deciding which party has control: for example, resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement and when any voting rights relate to administrative tasks only and the 94 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 9 95 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued to hold a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, Deferred acquisition costs the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit from providing investment management services and are charged Available-for-sale financial assets as the related revenue is recognised.
Available-for-sale financial assets AFS include readily realisable interests in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to Financial instruments this category or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are Recognition and initial measurement carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are comprehensive income.
Dividend income and impairment losses are recognised on the trade date, being the date that the Group commits recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or Financial assets designated as FVTPL been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: or expires.
the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally Subsequent measurement on a fair value basis: and The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: an accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL, all for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, Financial assets interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: financial assets held for sale, investment securities designated as fair i FVTPL investments value through profit or loss FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded investments, available-for-sale financial assets and non-current funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly financial assets held for sale.
recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds income.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset where a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
the holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal ii Non-current asset investments through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds that are recognised as non-current financial assets held for sale in accordance designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of fund as a held for sale asset and the interest held by other parties as comprehensive income.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at iii Derivatives fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and asset investments.
If a seed capital investment remains under the those held in consolidated funds.
Derivatives are initially recognised control of the Group for more than one year from the original at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line-by-line.
and subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Transaction costs are recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
Investment securities designated as FVTPL All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
These securities are designated as FVTPL Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Non-current financial assets held for sale HFS Non-current financial assets held for sale are measured at the lower Trade and other receivables of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. transaction costs.
The fair value on acquisition is normally the cost.
Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable financial assets held for sale, because the Group has been deemed amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive 96 96 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued to hold a controlling stake, are subsequently disposed of or diluted income when there is appropriate evidence that trade and other Where instruments are not listed on any stock exchange or not such that the Groups holding is no longer deemed a controlling stake, receivables are impaired.
The resulting adjustment is recognised as traded on any regulated markets, valuation techniques are used Deferred acquisition costs the investment will subsequently be classified as fair value through interest expense or interest income.
Subsequent to initial recognition by valuation specialists.
These techniques include the market Costs that are directly attributable to securing an investment profit or loss investments in accordance with IAS 39.
Subsequent these assets are measured at amortised cost less any impairment.
approach, the income approach or the cost approach for which management contract are deferred if they can be identified separately movements will be recognised in accordance with the Groups sufficient and reliable data is available.
The use of the market and measured reliably and it is probable that they will be recovered.
Cash and cash equivalents accounting policy for the newly adopted classification.
approach generally consists of using comparable market transactions Deferred acquisition costs represent the contractual right to benefit Cash represents cash at bank and in hand, and cash equivalents or using techniques based on market observable inputs, while the from providing investment management services and are charged Available-for-sale financial assets comprise short-term deposits and investments in money market use of the income approach generally consists of the net present as the related revenue is recognised.
Available-for-sale financial assets AFS include readily realisable instruments with an original maturity of three months or less.
value of estimated future cash flows, adjusted as deemed appropriate interests in seeded funds that are either allocated specifically to Financial instruments for liquidity, credit, market and or other risk factors.
this category or cannot be assigned to any other category.
They are Financial liabilities Recognition and initial measurement Investments in open-ended funds are valued on the basis of the carried at fair value and changes in fair value are recognised in other The Group classifies its financial liabilities into the following Financial instruments are recognised when the Group becomes party last available net asset value of the units or shares of such funds.
comprehensive income, until the asset is disposed of or impaired, at categories: non-current financial liabilities held for sale, financial to the contractual provisions of an instrument, initially at fair value which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other liabilities designated as FVTPL and financial liabilities at plus transaction costs except for financial assets classified at fair The fair value of the derivatives is their quoted market price at comprehensive income is included in profit for the year as part of amortised cost.
value through profit or loss.
Purchases or sales of financial assets are the balance sheet date.
Non-current financial liabilities held for sale Hedge accounting to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when Non-current financial liabilities represent interests held by other the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or The Group applies cash flow hedge accounting when the transactions Financial assets designated as FVTPL parties in funds in which the Group recognises 100% of the been transferred or when the Group has transferred substantially all meet the specified hedge accounting criteria.
To qualify, the following Financial assets designated as FVTPL include certain readily realisable investment in the fund as a held for sale financial asset.
These risks and rewards of ownership.
Financial liabilities are derecognised conditions must be met: interests in seeded funds, non-current asset investments and liabilities are carried at fair value with gains or losses recognised when the obligation under the liability has been discharged, cancelled formal documentation of the relationship between the hedging derivatives.
The Group designates financial assets as FVTPL when: in the statement of comprehensive income within finance income or expires.
instrument s and hedged item s must exist at inception or expense.
the financial assets are managed, evaluated and reported internally the hedged cash flows must be highly probable and must present Subsequent measurement on a fair value basis: and Financial liabilities at FVTPL an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect The subsequent measurement of financial instruments depends on the classification at fair value eliminates or significantly reduces comprehensive income Financial liabilities at FVTPL include derivative financial instruments their classification in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: an accounting mismatch which would otherwise arise.
and third-party interests in consolidated funds.
They are carried at fair the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held From the date the financial asset is designated as FVTPL, all value with gains or losses recognised in the consolidated statement for Sale and Discontinued Operations.
the hedge must be highly effective, with effectiveness assessed subsequent changes in fair value, foreign exchange differences, of comprehensive income within finance income or expense.
Financial assets interest and dividends are reflected in the consolidated statement of Other financial liabilities For qualifying cash flow hedges, the change in fair value of comprehensive income and presented in finance income or expense.
The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: the effective hedging instrument is initially recognised in other Other financial liabilities including trade and other payables financial assets held for sale, investment securities designated as fair i FVTPL investments comprehensive income and is released to comprehensive income are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective value through profit or loss FVTPL, fair value through profit or loss in the same period during which the relevant financial asset or The Group classifies new readily realisable interests in seeded interest rate method.
investments, available-for-sale financial assets and non-current liability affects the Groups results.
funds as FVTPL investments with fair value changes being directly financial assets held for sale.
Fair value of financial instruments recognised through the consolidated statement of comprehensive Where the hedge is highly effective overall, any ineffective portion The Group may, from time to time, invest seed capital in funds Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to income.
Fair value is measured based on the proportionate net asset of the hedge is immediately recognised in comprehensive income.
where a subsidiary is the investment manager or an adviser.
Where sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability i. e. the exit price value in the fund.
Where the instrument ceases to be highly effective as a hedge, or the holding in such investments is deemed to represent a controlling in an orderly transaction between market participants at the is sold, terminated or exercised, hedge accounting is discontinued.
stake and is acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposal ii Non-current asset investments measurement date.
In determining fair value, the Group uses various through sale or dilution, these seed capital investments are Non-current asset investments include closed-end funds that are valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities recognised as non-current financial assets held for sale in accordance designated as FVTPL.
They are held at fair value with changes in measuring fair value that maximises the use of relevant observable The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual with IFRS 5.
The Group recognises 100% of the investment in the fair value being recognised through the consolidated statement of inputs and minimises the use of unobservable inputs by requiring rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers fund as a held for sale asset and the interest held by other parties as comprehensive income.
that the most observable inputs be used when available.
Observable the financial asset and substantially all the risk and rewards of a liability held for sale.
Where control is not deemed to exist, and the inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the ownership of the asset.
The Group derecognises a financial assets are readily realisable, they are recognised as financial assets at iii Derivatives asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from liability when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39.
Where the Derivatives include foreign exchange forward contracts and options sources independent of the Group.
assets are not readily realisable, they are recognised as non-current used by the Group to manage its foreign currency exposures and Unobservable inputs are inputs that reflect the Groups assumptions asset investments.
Derivatives are initially recognised Impairment of financial assets about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing control of the Group for more than one year from the original at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into General the asset or liability, developed based on the best information investment date, the underlying fund is consolidated line-by-line.
Transaction costs are At each reporting date, the carrying amounts of the Groups assets available in the circumstances.
recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income.
are reviewed to assess whether there is any objective evidence Investment securities designated as FVTPL All derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is Securities listed on a recognised stock exchange or dealt on any of impairment in the value of financial assets classified as either Investment securities represent securities, other than derivatives, positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
other regulated market that operates regularly, is recognised and available-for-sale or as trade and other receivables.
Impairment held by consolidated funds.
These securities are designated as FVTPL open to the public are valued at the last known available closing bid losses are recognised if an event has occurred that will have an Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of and are measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised price.
If a security is traded on several actively traded and organised adverse impact on the expected future cash flows of an asset and derivatives are taken directly in comprehensive income, except for through the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
financial markets, the valuation is made on the basis of the last known the expected impact can be reliably estimated.
If any such indication the effective portion of cash flow hedges, which is recognised in bid price on the main market on which the securities are traded.
exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment other comprehensive income.
Non-current financial assets held for sale HFS In the case of securities for which trading on an actively traded and loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds Non-current financial assets held for sale are measured at the lower Trade and other receivables organised financial market is not significant, but which are bought and its recoverable amount.
of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except where Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at fair value plus sold on a secondary market with regulated trading among security measurement and remeasurement is outside the scope of IFRS 5. transaction costs.
dealers with the effect that the price is set on a market basis, the Where investments that have initially been recognised as non-current Impairment losses with respect to the estimated irrecoverable valuation may be based on this secondary market.
financial assets held for sale, because the Group has been deemed amount are recognised through the statement of comprehensive 96 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 9 97 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Impairment of financial assets continued receivable for the provision of investment management services, The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair and includes management fees, performance fees and other value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in revenue.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present income as and when the related services are provided.
Revenue is value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
For an recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to Net revenue is total revenue less distribution costs and including which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured Specific revenue recognition policies are: as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, Management fees the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with fair value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement individual management agreements.
Management fees are of comprehensive income.
accrued over the period for which the service is provided.
Where Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are management fees are received in advance, they are recognised measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the over the period of the provision of the asset management service.
financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Such Performance fees impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of above a defined hurdle.
Performance fees are recognised when the financial position.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance effective interest rate of the asset.
period or upon early redemption by a client.
Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forOther revenue sale financial assets are reported as fair value gains in the availableOther revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the Distribution costs amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third-parties and event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying Employee benefits amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans or amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive Goodwill income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an Share-based payments indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the compensation plans.
business, estimates of future cash flows and discount rates.
When assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value after making allowances for any specific risks.
is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
The considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is conducted for the Group as a whole.
For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding liability An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.
on the Groups balance sheet.
The fair value is measured using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and 98 98 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 4 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
During the Dividends vesting period, the liability recognised represents the portion of the Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or Dividends are recognised when shareholders rights to receive Impairment of financial assets continued vesting period that has expired at the balance sheet date multiplied receivable for the provision of investment management services, payments have been established.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of an assets fair by the fair value of the awards at that date.
Movements in the liability and includes management fees, performance fees and other value less costs to sell and its value in use.
In assessing value in Equity shares are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Revenue is recognised in the statement of comprehensive use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present The Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each are classified income as and when the related services are provided.
For an Operating leases as equity instruments.
Ordinary shares issued by the Company recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the Payments due under operating leases are recognised in the are recorded at the fair value of the consideration received or the will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over market price at the day of issue.
Direct issue costs, net of tax, Net revenue is total revenue less distribution costs and including which the asset belongs.
Lease incentives received are recognised are deducted from equity through share premium.
on a straight-line basis over the lease term and are recorded as capital is repurchased, the amount of consideration paid, including Impairment losses on available-for-sale financial assets are measured Specific revenue recognition policies are: a reduction in premises costs.
directly attributable costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
as the difference between cost and the current fair value.
Where there is evidence that the available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, Management fees Finance income and expense Own shares the cumulative loss that had been previously recognised in other Management fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated Finance income includes interest receivable on the Groups cash and Own shares are held by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The comprehensive income is reclassified from the available-for-sale as a percentage of net fund assets managed in accordance with cash equivalents, realised gains on available-for-sale financial assets holding of the EBT comprises own shares that have not vested fair value reserve and recognised in the consolidated statement individual management agreements.
Management fees are and both realised and unrealised gains on held for sale assets and unconditionally to employees of the Group.
In both the Group and of comprehensive income.
Where investments measured at FVTPL.
Company, own shares are recorded at cost and are deducted from Impairment losses in respect of assets other than goodwill are management fees are received in advance, they are recognised retained earnings.
Finance expense includes realised losses on available-for-sale financial measured as the difference between the carrying amount of the over the period of the provision of the asset management service.
assets and both realised and unrealised losses on held for sale assets financial asset and the present value of estimated cash flows Treasury shares and investments measured at FVTPL.
discounted at the assets original effective interest rate.
Such Performance fees Treasury shares are recognised in equity and are measured at cost.
impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of Performance fees are presented net of rebates, and are calculated Consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised Taxation other comprehensive income and are recognised against the carrying as a percentage of the appreciation in the net asset value of a fund in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale Tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
amount of the impaired asset on the consolidated statement of above a defined hurdle.
Performance fees are recognised when the and original cost being taken to retained earnings.
Tax is recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive financial position.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be quantum of the fee can be estimated reliably and it is probable that income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised accrued on the reduced carrying amount based on the original Segmental information the fee will crystallise.
This is usually at the end of the performance directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
effective interest rate of the asset.
Key management information, including revenues, margins, investment performance, distribution costs and AuM flows, Subsequent increases in fair value of previously impaired available-forCurrent tax Other revenue which is relevant to the operation of the Group, is reported to and sale financial assets are reported as fair value gains in the availableCurrent tax comprises the expected tax payable or receivable on Other revenue includes transaction, structuring and administration reviewed by the Board on the basis of the investment management for-sale fair value reserve through other comprehensive income and the taxable income or loss for the year, and any adjustment to the fees, and reimbursement by funds of costs incurred by the Group.
Hence the Groups management considers not separately identified as an impairment reversal.
tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years.
It is measured This revenue is recognised when the related services are provided.
that the Groups services and its operations are not run on a discrete using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance For all other assets other than goodwill, if in a subsequent year the geographic basis and comprise one business segment being sheet date in the countries where the Group operates.
Current Distribution costs amount of the estimated impairment loss decreases because of an provision of investment management services.
tax also includes withholding tax arising from dividends.
Distribution costs are cost of sales payable to third-parties and event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously are recognised over the period for which the service is provided.
Company-only accounting policies recognised impairment loss is reversed, but is limited to the extent Deferred tax that the value of the asset may not exceed the original carrying In addition to the above accounting policies, the following specifically Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet liability method, Employee benefits amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation relates to the Company: in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans or amortisation, had no impairment occurred.
assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts are recognised as an expense in the statement of comprehensive Investment in subsidiaries used for taxation purposes.
The following differences are not Goodwill income when payable in accordance with the scheme particulars.
Investments by the Company in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, provided for: Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an where appropriate, provisions for impairment.
Share-based payments indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable based goodwill not deductible for tax purposes and The Group issues share awards to its employees under share-based on managements judgements regarding the future prospects of the differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent compensation plans.
When that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
assessing the appropriateness of the carrying value of goodwill at For equity-settled awards, the fair value of the amounts payable The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected year end, the recoverable amount is considered to be the greater of to employees is recognised as an expense with a corresponding manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
The pre-tax discount rate increase in equity over the vesting period after adjusting for the and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the applied is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital estimated number of shares that are expected to vest.
The fair value reporting date.
after making allowances for any specific risks.
is measured at the grant date using an appropriate valuation model, Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the The business of the Group is managed as a single unit, with asset probable that future taxable profits will be available against which instruments were granted.
At each balance sheet date prior to allocations, research and other such operational practices reflecting the assets can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at vesting, the cumulative expense representing the extent to which the commonality of approach across all fund themes.
Therefore, each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate for the purpose of testing goodwill for impairment, the Group is longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
of the awards that are ultimately expected to vest is calculated.
The considered to have one cash-generating unit to which all goodwill movement in cumulative expense is recognised in the statement of is allocated and, as a result, no further split of goodwill into smaller Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be comprehensive income with a corresponding entry within equity.
cash-generating units is possible and the impairment review is applied to temporary differences when they reverse, using tax conducted for the Group as a whole.
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The fair value is measured using an appropriate valuation model, taking into account the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest and the terms and 98 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 9 99 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit assets is shown in the table below.
Disclosures relating to revenue are in note 6.
Analysis of non-current assets by geography 2017 2016 m m United Kingdom 7.8 12.1 United States 76.1 78.8 Other 0.5 0.5 Total non-current assets 84.4 91.4 6 Revenue Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2015 16: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
Analysis of revenue by geography 2017 2016 m m United Kingdom 232.8 194.0 United States 8.7 9.2 Other 15.7 8.4 Total revenue 257.2 211.6 7 Foreign exchange The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro, the Indonesian rupiah and the Colombian peso.
2017 2016 m m Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 2.8 1.1 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 7.8 21.0 Total foreign exchange gains losses 5.0 22.1 8 Finance income and expense 2017 2016 m m Finance income Interest income 10.4 6.7 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 20.8 1.4 Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 7.4 23.4 Total finance income 38.6 31.5 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Total finance expense 0.2 Net finance income 38.6 31.3 10 100 0 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 5 Segmental information 9 Personnel expenses The location of the Groups non-current assets at year end other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and post-employment benefit Personnel expenses during the year comprised the following: assets is shown in the table below.
2017 2016 m m Analysis of non-current assets by geography Wages and salaries 19.6 19.1 2017 2016 m m Performance-related cash bonuses 18.5 24.9 United Kingdom 7.8 12.1 Share-based payments 24.4 10.7 United States 76.1 78.8 Social security costs 1.8 1.8 Other 0.5 0.5 Pension costs 1.6 1.6 Other costs 1.9 1.6 Total non-current assets 84.4 91.4 Total personnel expenses 67.8 59.7 6 Revenue Management fees are accrued throughout the year in line with prevailing levels of assets under management and performance fees are Number of employees recognised when they can be estimated reliably and it is probable that they will crystallise.
The Group is not considered to be reliant on any The number of employees of the Group including Executive Directors during the reporting year was as follows: single source of revenue.
During the year, none of the Groups funds FY2015 16: none provided more than 10% of total revenue in the year Average for Average for respectively when considering management fees and performance fees on a combined basis.
the year the year ended ended At At 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Analysis of revenue by geography Number Number Number Number 2017 2016 m m Total employees 256 277 252 266 United Kingdom 232.8 194.0 Directors remuneration United States 8.7 9.2 Disclosures of Directors remuneration during the year as required by the Companies Act 2006 are included in the Remuneration report Other 15.7 8.4 on pages 56 to 73.
Total revenue 257.2 211.6 There are retirement benefits accruing to two Executive Directors under a defined contribution scheme FY2015 16: two.
7 Foreign exchange 10 Share-based payments The foreign exchange rates which had a material impact on the Groups results are the US dollar, the Euro, the Indonesian rupiah and the The cost related to share-based payments recognised by the Group in the statement of comprehensive income is shown below: Colombian peso.
2017 2016 Average rate Average rate Group m m Closing rate Closing rate year ended year ended as at 30 June as at 30 June 30 June 30 June Omnibus Plan 24.2 25.8 1 2017 2016 2017 2016 Ashmore Equities Investment Management US L. L. C AEIM operating agreement 0.1 US dollar 1.2946 1.3234 1.2766 1.4759 Phantom Bonus Plan 0.2 0.2 Euro 1.1426 1.1970 1.1671 1.3359 Total related to compensation awards 24.4 26.1 Indonesian rupiah 17,340 17,482 16,918 20,172 Related to acquisition of AEIM 15.4 Colombian peso 3,965 3,866 3,788 4,456 Total share-based payments expense 24.4 10.7 Foreign exchange gains and losses are shown below.
The total expense recognised for the year in respect of equity-settled share-based payment awards was 21.3 million FY2015 16: 2017 2016 10.5 million.
m m Net realised and unrealised hedging gains losses 2.8 1.1 Translation gains losses on non-Sterling denominated monetary assets and liabilities 7.8 21.0 Total foreign exchange gains losses 5.0 22.1 8 Finance income and expense 2017 2016 m m Finance income Interest income 10.4 6.7 Net realised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 20.8 1.4 Net unrealised gains on seed capital investments measured at fair value 7.4 23.4 Total finance income 38.6 31.5 Finance expense Net realised losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.2 Total finance expense 0.2 Net finance income 38.6 31.3 100 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 1 10 01 1 Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
Total expense by year awards were granted excluding national insurance Group and Company 2017 2016 Year of grant m m 2011 2.8 2012 2.6 2.8 2013 3.7 3.8 2014 2.3 2.4 2015 3.5 3.0 2016 3.4 8.3 2017 6.0 Total omnibus share-based payments expense reported in comprehensive income 21.5 23.1 Awards outstanding under the Omnibus Plan were as follows: i Equity-settled awards 2017 Number of 2017 2016 2016 shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average Group and Company awards share price to awards share price Restricted share awards At the beginning of the year 22,929,174 3.18 20,524,634 3.46 Granted 4,378,988 3.40 7,366,910 2.43 Vested 3,426,172 3.87 3,058,877 3.19 Forfeited 1,843,890 3.32 1,903,493 3.21 Awards outstanding at year end 22,038,100 3.14 22,929,174 3.18 Bonus share awards At the beginning of the year 8,438,295 3.15 7,404,574 3.43 Granted 1,569,761 3.39 2,527,672 2.43 Vested 1,739,720 3.86 1,493,951 3.18 Forfeited Awards outstanding at year end 8,268,336 3.10 8,438,295 3.15 Matching share awards At the beginning of the year 8,438,295 3.18 7,404,574 3.43 Granted 1,574,860 3.39 2,527,672 2.43 Vested 1,116,079 3.92 1,401,866 3.17 Forfeited 623,641 3.75 92,085 3.32 Awards outstanding at year end 8,273,435 3.14 8,438,295 3.18 Total 38,579,871 3.18 39,805,764 3.18 10 102 2 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued ii Cash-settled awards 2017 The Executive Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan Number of 2017 2016 2016 The Omnibus Plan was introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and provides for the grant of share awards, market value shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average options, premium cost options, discounted options, linked options, phantoms and or nil-cost options to employees.
The Omnibus Plan will Group and Company awards share price to awards share price also allow bonuses to be deferred in the form of share awards with or without matching shares.
Awards granted under the Omnibus Plan Restricted share awards typically vest after five years from date of grant, with the exception of bonus awards which vest after the shorter of five years from date of grant or on the date of termination of employment.
Awards under the Omnibus Plan are accounted for as equity-settled, with the exception At the beginning of the year 269,754 3.72 582,848 3.48 of phantoms which are classified as cash-settled.
Granted 27,700 3.40 38,504 2.43 The share-based payments relating to the Omnibus Plan represent the combined cash and equity-settled payments.
For Executive Directors, the fair value of awards also takes into account the performance conditions set out in the Remuneration report.
Where the grant of restricted and matching share awards is linked to the annual bonus process, the fair value of the awards is spread over a period including the current financial year and the subsequent five years to their vesting date when the grantee becomes unconditionally entitled to the underlying shares.
The fair value of the remaining awards is spread over the period from the date of grant to the vesting date.
The liability arising from cash-settled awards under the Omnibus Plan at the end of the year and reported within trade and other payables on the consolidated balance sheet is 0.4 million 30 June 2016: 0.6 million of which nil 30 June 2016: nil relates to vested awards.
The Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP The CSOP was also introduced prior to the Company listing in October 2006 and is an option scheme providing for the grant of market value options to employees with the aggregate value of outstanding options not exceeding 30,000 per employee.
The CSOP qualifies as a UK tax approved company share option plan and approval thereto has been obtained from HMRC.
To date, there have been no awards made under the CSOP.
Other arrangements AEIM operating agreement All remaining unvested units granted under the terms of AEIMs operating agreement were forfeited during the year.
There were no outstanding units as at 30 June 2017.
10 104 4 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 10 Share-based payments continued 11 Other expenses Other expenses consist of the following: iii Total awards 2017 2017 2016 Number of 2017 2016 2016 m m shares Weighted Number of Weighted subject to average shares subject average Travel 2.2 3.6 Group and Company awards share price to awards share price Professional fees 4.9 4.6 Restricted share awards Information technology and communications 5.2 5.4 At the beginning of the year 23,198,928 3.19 21,107,482 3.46 Amortisation of intangible assets note 15 4.5 3.9 Granted 4,406,688 3.40 7,405,414 2.43 Operating leases 3.5 3.3 Vested 3,426,172 3.87 3,104,202 3.20 Premises-related costs 1.2 1.2 Forfeited 2,006,360 3.37 2,209,766 3.20 Insurance 1.0 1.1 Awards outstanding at year end 22,173,084 3.14 23,198,928 3.19 Auditors remuneration see below 0.6 0.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 16 1.0 1.2 Bonus share awards Consolidated funds note 20 4.9 2.4 At the beginning of the year 8,628,871 3.17 7,787,559 3.43 Other expenses 3.9 5.1 Granted 1,581,291 3.39 2,533,851 2.43 32.9 32.6 Vested 1,861,572 3.87 1,692,539 3.18 Forfeited Auditors remuneration 2017 2016 Awards outstanding at year end 8,348,590 3.11 8,628,871 3.17 m m Fees for statutory audit services: Matching share awards Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Groups accounts 0.2 0.2 At the beginning of the year 8,628,871 3.20 7,787,559 3.43 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant Granted 1,586,390 3.39 2,533,851 2.43 to legislation 0.2 0.2 Vested 1,116,079 3.92 1,401,866 3.17 Forfeited 745,493 3.78 290,673 3.22 Fees for non-audit services: Awards outstanding at year end 8,353,689 3.14 8,628,871 3.20 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for tax services 0.2 Total 38,875,363 3.13 40,456,670 3.19 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services 0.2 0.2 0.6 0.8 The weighted average share price of awards granted to employees under the Omnibus Plan during the year was 3.40 FY2015 16: 2.43, as determined by the average Ashmore Group plc closing share price for the five business days prior to grant.
104 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 1 10 05 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Taxation Analysis of tax charge for the year: 2017 2016 m m Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the year 31.3 31.4 Overseas corporation tax charge 7.9 4.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.5 0.7 40.7 36.9 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 18 3.2 1.0 Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 0.9 Tax expense 36.7 38.8 Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 206.2 167.5 Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 19.75% FY2015 16: 20.00% 40.7 33.5 Effects of: Non-deductible expenses 0.2 4.7 Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 2.8 2.8 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 1.4 1.5 Non-taxable income 4.1 Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.2 Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 0.9 Other items 0.5 1.5 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 0.7 Tax expense 36.7 38.8 Non-taxable income relates to the impact of local tax exemptions on realised investment income in certain jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The tax charge recognised in equity other comprehensive income is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Current tax on foreign exchange gains 0.1 0.9 Deferred tax on seed capital investments 1.0 Tax expense recognised in equity other comprehensive income 0.1 1.9 A reduction to the main rate of UK corporation tax from 20% was enacted in the Finance Act 2013 and became effective from 1 April 2015.
2 Act 2015 introduced legislation to reduce the UK corporation tax rate to 19% from 1 April 2017.
Finance Act 2016 further reduces the tax rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These tax rate reductions have been taken into account in the calculation of the Groups UK deferred tax assets and liabilities as at 30 June 2017.
10 106 6 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 12 Taxation 13 Earnings per share Analysis of tax charge for the year: Basic earnings per share at 30 June 2017 of 25.07 pence 30 June 2016: 19.13 pence is calculated by dividing the profit after tax for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent of 167.6 million FY2015 16: 127.8 million by the weighted average number 2017 2016 of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding own shares.
m m Current tax Diluted earnings per share is calculated based on basic earnings per share adjusted for all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
There is no difference between the profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent used in the basic and diluted earnings per UK corporation tax on profits for the year 31.3 31.4 share calculations.
Overseas corporation tax charge 7.9 4.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.5 0.7 Reconciliation of the weighted average number of shares used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share is shown below.
40.7 36.9 2017 Number of 2016 Deferred tax ordinary Number of Origination and reversal of temporary differences see note 18 3.2 1.0 shares ordinary shares Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 0.9 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of basic earnings per share 668,488,046 667,777,465 Tax expense 36.7 38.8 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares share awards 38,451,642 38,958,842 Weighted average number of ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share 706,939,688 706,736,307 Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2017 2016 14 Dividends m m Dividends paid in the year Profit before tax 206.2 167.5 2017 2016 Company m m Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the blended UK tax rate of 19.75% FY2015 16: 20.00% 40.7 33.5 Final dividend for FY2015 16 12.10p FY2014 15: 12.10p 84.9 84.5 Interim dividend for FY2016 17 4.55p FY2015 16: 4.55p 31.7 31.6 Effects of: 116.6 116.1 Non-deductible expenses 0.2 4.7 In addition, the Group paid 2.3 million FY2015 16: 4.2 million of dividends to non-controlling interests.
Deduction in respect of vested shares exercised options Part 12, Corporation Tax Act 2009 2.8 2.8 Different rate of taxes on overseas profits 1.4 1.5 Dividends declared proposed in respect of the year 2017 2016 Non-taxable income 4.1 Company pence pence Tax relief on amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangibles 1.2 Interim dividend per share paid 4.55 4.55 Effect on deferred tax balance of changes in corporation tax rates 0.8 0.9 Final dividend per share proposed 12.10 12.10 Other items 0.5 1.5 16.65 16.65 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.6 0.7 Tax expense 36.7 38.8 On 6 September 2017, the Board proposed a final dividend of 12.10 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2017.
This has not been recognised as a liability of the Group at the year end as it has not yet been approved by shareholders.
Based on the number of shares Non-taxable income relates to the impact of local tax exemptions on realised investment income in certain jurisdictions in which the Group in issue at the year end that qualify to receive a dividend, the total amount payable would be 84.6 million.
106 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 1 10 07 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets Fund management Goodwill relationships Total Group m m m Cost at original exchange rate At 30 June 2015, 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 57.5 39.5 97.0 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 30 June 2015 27.2 27.2 Amortisation charge for the year 3.9 3.9 At 30 June 2016 31.1 31.1 Amortisation charge for the year 4.5 4.5 At 30 June 2017 35.6 35.6 Net book value At 30 June 2015 60.0 14.1 74.1 Accumulated amortisation for the year 3.9 3.9 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 10.1 2.2 12.3 At 30 June 2016 70.1 12.4 82.5 Accumulated amortisation for the year 4.5 4.5 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 1.5 0.4 1.9 At 30 June 2017 71.6 8.3 79.9 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
Goodwill Company m Cost At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2016 and 2017 4.1 Goodwill The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of the equities business in May 2011.
The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2017.
The Group consists of a single cash-generating unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this with the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
Based on managements assessment as at 30 June 2017, the recoverable amount was in excess of the carrying value of goodwill and no impairment was implied.
No impairment losses have been recognised in the current or preceding years.
Fund management relationships Intangible assets comprise fund management relationships related to profit expected to be earned from clients of AEIM.
An annual impairment review of the fund management relationships was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2017.
The recoverable amount was derived from the cumulative pre-tax net earnings anticipated to be generated over the remaining useful economic life, discounted to present value using the Groups weighted average cost of capital of 13.0% per annum.
Cumulative net earnings associated with the fund management relationships intangible asset were derived from the annual operating profit contribution that would arise as a result of the remaining fund management relationships, adjusted for investment performance and investor attrition.
The recoverable amount of the fund management relationships intangible asset was determined to be higher than its carrying value as at 30 June 2017.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year FY2015 16: no impairment charge recognised.
The remaining amortisation period for fund management relationships is two years 30 June 2016: three years.
10 108 8 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 15 Goodwill and intangible assets 16 Property, plant and equipment Fund 2017 2016 management Fixtures, Fixtures, Goodwill relationships Total fittings and fittings and Group m m m equipment equipment Group m m Cost at original exchange rate Cost At 30 June 2015, 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 57.5 39.5 97.0 At the beginning of the year 7.8 6.6 Additions 0.4 0.8 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.6 At 30 June 2015 27.2 27.2 Disposals 1.9 0.2 Amortisation charge for the year 3.9 3.9 At the end of the year 6.4 7.8 At 30 June 2016 31.1 31.1 Amortisation charge for the year 4.5 4.5 Accumulated depreciation At 30 June 2017 35.6 35.6 At the beginning of the year 5.6 4.1 Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 1.2 Net book value Foreign exchange revaluation 0.3 At 30 June 2015 60.0 14.1 74.1 Disposals 1.8 Accumulated amortisation for the year 3.9 3.9 At the end of the year 4.8 5.6 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 10.1 2.2 12.3 Net book value at 30 June 1.6 2.2 At 30 June 2016 70.1 12.4 82.5 Accumulated amortisation for the year 4.5 4.5 2017 2016 Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves 1.5 0.4 1.9 Fixtures, Fixtures, fittings and fittings and At 30 June 2017 71.6 8.3 79.9 equipment equipment Company m m Foreign exchange revaluation through reserves is a result of the retranslation of US dollar-denominated intangibles and goodwill.
Cost Goodwill Company m At the beginning of the year 3.6 3.0 Cost Additions 0.1 0.7 At the beginning and end of the year 4.1 Disposals 0.1 Net carrying amount at 30 June 2016 and 2017 4.1 At the end of the year 3.7 3.6 Goodwill Accumulated depreciation The Groups goodwill balance relates principally to the acquisition of the equities business in May 2011.
At the beginning of the year 2.5 1.9 The Companys goodwill balance relates to the acquisition of the business from ANZ in 1999.
Depreciation charge for year 0.5 0.6 The annual impairment review of goodwill was undertaken for the year ending 30 June 2017.
The Group consists of a single cash-generating Disposals unit for the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
In performing the impairment review, management prepares a calculation of At the end of the year 3.0 2.5 the recoverable amount of goodwill and compares this with the carrying value.
The recoverable amount was based on a fair value less costs to Net book value at 30 June 0.7 1.1 sell calculation using the Companys year end share price.
108 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 1 10 09 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Trade and other receivables Group Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Current Trade debtors 67.2 56.8 3.6 3.5 Prepayments 2.9 3.0 1.6 1.7 Loans due from subsidiaries 354.1 277.5 Amounts due from subsidiaries 38.1 2.2 Other receivables 0.8 1.4 0.6 0.5 Total trade and other receivables 70.9 61.2 398.0 285.4 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2017 in respect of investment management services provided up to that date.
Loans and amounts due from subsidiaries for the Company include intercompany loans related to seed capital investments held by subsidiaries and trading balances.
Intercompany loans are issued on commercial terms and repayable on demand.
18 Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: 2017 2016 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Group m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 13.4 14.0 27.4 8.9 10.6 19.5 Deferred tax liabilities 9.2 9.2 5.2 5.2 4.2 14.0 18.2 3.7 10.6 14.3 2017 2016 Other Other temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total Company m m m m m m Deferred tax assets 0.2 11.3 11.5 0.1 8.1 8.2 11 110 0 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Trade and other receivables Movement of deferred tax balances Group Company The movement in the deferred tax balances between the balance sheet dates has been reflected in equity or the statement of comprehensive 2017 2016 2017 2016 income as follows: m m m m Other Current temporary Share-based differences payments Total Trade debtors 67.2 56.8 3.6 3.5 Group m m m Prepayments 2.9 3.0 1.6 1.7 At 30 June 2015 6.1 10.7 16.8 Loans due from subsidiaries 354.1 277.5 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2.4 0.1 2.5 Amounts due from subsidiaries 38.1 2.2 At 30 June 2016 3.7 10.6 14.3 Other receivables 0.8 1.4 0.6 0.5 Credited charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 0.5 3.4 3.9 Total trade and other receivables 70.9 61.2 398.0 285.4 At 30 June 2017 4.2 14.0 18.2 Group trade debtors include all billed and unbilled management fees due to the Group at 30 June 2017 in respect of investment management services provided up to that date.
Loans and amounts due from subsidiaries for the Company include intercompany loans related to seed capital Other investments held by subsidiaries and trading balances.
temporary Share-based differences payments Total Company m m m 18 Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group and Company at year end are attributable to the following: At 30 June 2015 0.3 8.7 9.0 Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.2 0.6 0.8 2017 2016 Other Other At 30 June 2016 0.1 8.1 8.2 temporary Share-based temporary Share-based Credited charged to the statement of comprehensive income 0.1 3.2 3.3 differences payments Total differences payments Total Group m m m m m m At 30 June 2017 0.2 11.3 11.5 Deferred tax assets 13.4 14.0 27.4 8.9 10.6 19.5 Refer to the details in note 12 in relation to future changes to the UK corporation tax rate which have been reflected in the Groups deferred Deferred tax liabilities 9.2 9.2 5.2 5.2 tax position.
4.2 14.0 18.2 3.7 10.6 14.3 19 Fair value of financial instruments The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values.
This framework includes committees that 2017 2016 have overall responsibility for all significant fair value measurements.
Each committee regularly reviews significant inputs and valuation Other Other adjustments.
If third-party information is used to measure fair value, the team assesses and documents the evidence obtained from the third temporary Share-based temporary Share-based differences payments Total differences payments Total parties to support such valuations.
There are no material differences between the carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities and their fair Company m m m m m m values at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets 0.2 11.3 11.5 0.1 8.1 8.2 Fair value hierarchy The Group measures fair values using the following fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of inputs used in making the measurements: Level 1: Valuation is based upon a quoted market price in an active market for an identical instrument.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted and exchange traded equity and debt securities.
Level 2: Valuation techniques are based upon observable inputs, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
This fair value measure relates to the valuation of quoted equity securities in inactive markets or in interests in unlisted funds whose net asset values are referenced to the fair values of the listed or exchange traded securities held by those funds.
Level 3: Valuation techniques use significant unobservable inputs.
For financial instruments that are recognised at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
110 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 11 111 1 Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Fair value of financial instruments continued The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: 2017 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Financial assets Investment securities 60.8 85.5 84.9 231.2 27.2 69.6 46.9 143.7 Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.1 7.1 78.6 28.1 106.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 11.2 11.3 0.4 0.4 8.0 8.8 Fair value through profit or loss investments 36.0 36.0 68.2 68.2 Non-current asset investments 4.5 18.0 22.5 11.7 11.7 Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 60.8 133.5 114.1 308.4 27.6 216.8 94.7 339.1 Financial liabilities Third-party interests in consolidated funds 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 11.0 36.2 28.4 75.6 Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 29.8 29.8 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 11.0 70.5 28.4 109.9 There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year FY2015 16: total of 19.5m non-current assets and available-forsale financial assets were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3.
Changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Non-current Third-party financial AvailableNon-current interests in Investment assets held for-sale financial asset consolidated securities for sale assets investments funds m m m m m At 30 June 2015 47.5 17.8 Additions 22.0 1.1 10.0 Transfers in from Level 2 2.2 7.9 9.4 Reclassification from consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.0 26.0 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 1.2 2.1 1.2 0.6 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 At 30 June 2016 46.9 28.1 8.0 11.7 28.4 Additions 4.5 Reclassification from HFS investments to consolidated funds 28.1 28.1 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 9.9 1.8 7.2 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 3.2 At 30 June 2017 84.9 11.2 18.0 35.6 Valuation of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which, by their nature, do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades, and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
The valuation techniques used include comparison to recent arms length transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis, and, if applicable, enterprise valuation.
These techniques may include a number of assumptions relating to variables such as interest rate and price earnings multiples.
Changes in assumptions relating to these variables could positively or negatively impact the reported fair value of these instruments.
When determining the inputs into the valuation techniques used priority is given to publicly available prices from independent sources when available, but overall the source of pricing is chosen with the objective of arriving at a fair value measurement that reflects the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants on the measurement date.
The fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based upon available market information and judgements about the financial instruments, including estimates of the timing and amount of expected future cash flows.
Such estimates do not typically reflect any premium or discount that could result from offering for sale at one time the Groups entire holdings of a particular financial instrument, nor do they typically consider the tax impact of the realisation of unrealised gains or losses from selling the financial instrument being fair valued.
In some cases the disclosed value cannot be realised in immediate settlement of the financial instrument.
In accordance with the Groups Pricing Methodology and Valuation framework, the estimated fair values of derivative financial instruments valued internally using standard market practices are subject to assessment against external counterparties valuations.
11 112 2 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 19 Fair value of financial instruments continued 20 Seed capital investments The fair value hierarchy of financial instruments which are carried at fair value at year end is summarised below: Financial instruments not measured at fair value 2017 2016 Financial assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value include cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, and trade and Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total other payables.
The carrying value of financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value is considered a reasonable approximation m m m m m m m m of fair value as at 30 June 2017 and 2016.
Financial assets The Group considers itself a sponsor of an investment fund when it facilitates the establishment of a fund in which the Group is the Investment securities 60.8 85.5 84.9 231.2 27.2 69.6 46.9 143.7 investment manager.
The Group ordinarily provides seed capital in order to provide initial scale and facilitate marketing of the funds to Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.1 7.1 78.6 28.1 106.7 third-party investors.
The fund is then financed through the issue of units to investors.
Aggregate interests held by the Group include seed Available-for-sale financial assets 0.1 11.2 11.3 0.4 0.4 8.0 8.8 capital, management fees and performance fees.
The Group generates management and performance fee income from managing the Fair value through profit or loss investments 36.0 36.0 68.2 68.2 assets on behalf of third-party investors.
Non-current asset investments 4.5 18.0 22.5 11.7 11.7 The movements of seed capital investments and related items during the year are as follows: Derivative financial instruments 0.3 0.3 Investment 60.8 133.5 114.1 308.4 27.6 216.8 94.7 339.1 securities Other Third-party relating to relating to interests in Non-current Financial liabilities HFS AFS FVTPL consolidated consolidated consolidated asset investments investments investments funds funds funds investments Total Third-party interests in consolidated funds 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 11.0 36.2 28.4 75.6 Group m m m m m m m m Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 Carrying amount at 30 June 2015 20.7 10.6 61.8 131.0 15.5 41.5 8.9 207.0 Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 29.8 29.8 Reclassification: 30.9 42.4 35.6 108.9 11.0 70.5 28.4 109.9 HFS to consolidated funds 15.8 20.7 4.9 There were no transfers between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the year FY2015 16: total of 19.5m non-current assets and available-forFVTPL to HFS investments 7.6 7.6 sale financial assets were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3.
Consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.9 26.9 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 18.3 47.3 29.0 Changes in Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 37.5 1.8 4.3 66.2 10.7 58.2 2.8 31.5 Non-current Third-party financial AvailableNon-current interests in Carrying amount at 30 June 2016 76.9 8.8 68.2 143.7 4.8 75.6 11.7 238.5 Investment assets held for-sale financial asset consolidated securities for sale assets investments funds Reclassification: m m m m m HFS investments to consolidated funds 49.3 52.8 3.5 At 30 June 2015 47.5 17.8 HFS investments to FVTPL 8.8 8.8 Additions 22.0 1.1 10.0 FVTPL to consolidated funds 23.2 60.3 37.1 Transfers in from Level 2 2.2 7.9 9.4 Consolidated funds to FVTPL investments 1.8 6.0 4.2 Reclassification from consolidated funds to HFS investments 26.0 26.0 Net purchases, disposals and fair value changes 11.7 2.5 19.6 19.6 6.2 3.1 10.8 28.3 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 1.2 2.1 1.2 0.6 Carrying amount at 30 June 2017 7.1 11.3 36.0 231.2 11.0 108.9 22.5 210.2 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 0.1 Investment securities in consolidated funds are designated as FVTPL.
At 30 June 2016 46.9 28.1 8.0 11.7 28.4 Relates to cash and other assets in consolidated funds that are not investment securities.
Additions 4.5 Reclassification from HFS investments to consolidated funds 28.1 28.1 Unrealised gains recognised in finance income 9.9 1.8 7.2 Unrealised gains recognised in other comprehensive income 3.2 At 30 June 2017 84.9 11.2 18.0 35.6 Valuation of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value on a recurring basis Investments valued using valuation techniques include financial investments which, by their nature, do not have an externally quoted price based on regular trades, and financial investments for which markets are no longer active as a result of market conditions e. g. market illiquidity.
112 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 11 113 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held for sale Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held for sale and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held for sale.
During the year, three funds FY2015 16: five were seeded in this manner, met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held for sale.
The non-current assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2017 were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.1 106.7 Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 29.8 Seed capital investments classified as held for sale 7.1 76.9 Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen through sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held for sale, they are classified as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
One such fund was transferred to the FVTPL category during the year after the Group reduced its interests following investment inflows from third parties FY2015 16: none.
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date, it will cease to be classified as held for sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with the requirements of IFRS 10.
During the year, two such funds FY2015 16: seven with an aggregate carrying amount of 12.5 million FY2015 16: 15.8 million were transferred from held for sale to consolidated funds category.
There was no impact on net assets or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
Included within finance income are net gains of 9.3 million FY2015 16: net gains of 4.2 million in relation to held for sale investments.
As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held for sale assets or liabilities is applicable.
b Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2017 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: 2017 2016 m m Equities listed on stock exchange 0.4 Equity funds 11.3 8.4 Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 11.3 8.8 Included within other comprehensive income are net gains of 2.5 million FY2015 16: net gains of 1.1 million in relation to available-for-sale investments.
c Fair value through profit or loss investments FVTPL investments at 30 June 2017 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: 2017 2016 m m Equity funds 30.2 46.6 Debt funds 5.8 21.6 Seed capital classified as FVTPL investments 36.0 68.2 Included within finance income are net gains of 9.6 million FY2015 16: net losses of 16.3 million on the Groups FVTPL investments.
11 114 4 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 20 Seed capital investments continued d Consolidated funds The Group has consolidated 13 investment funds as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: 14 investment funds, over which the Group is deemed a Non-current assets and non-current liabilities held for sale to have control refer to note 26.
Consolidated funds represent seed capital investments where the Group has held its position for a period Where Group companies invest seed capital into funds operated and controlled by the Group and the Group is actively seeking to reduce its greater than one year and its interest represents a controlling stake in the fund in accordance with IFRS 10.
Consolidated fund assets and investment and it is considered highly probable that it will relinquish control within a year, the interests in the funds are treated as held for sale liabilities are presented line-by-line after intercompany eliminations.
The table below sets out an analysis of the carrying amounts of interests and are recognised as financial assets and liabilities held for sale.
During the year, three funds FY2015 16: five were seeded in this manner, held by the Group in consolidated investment funds.
met the above criteria, and consequently the assets and liabilities of these funds were initially classified as held for sale.
2017 2016 The non-current assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 June 2017 were as follows: m m 2017 2016 Investment securities 231.2 143.7 m m Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 5.6 Non-current financial assets held for sale 7.1 106.7 Other 1.4 0.8 Non-current financial liabilities held for sale 29.8 Third-party interests in consolidated funds 108.9 75.6 Seed capital investments classified as held for sale 7.1 76.9 Consolidated seed capital investments 133.3 72.9 Investments cease to be classified as held for sale when they are no longer controlled by the Group.
A loss of control may happen through Investment securities are designated as FVTPL and include listed and unlisted equities and debt securities.
Other includes trade receivables, sale of the investment and or dilution of the Groups holding.
When investments cease to be classified as held for sale, they are classified trade payables and accruals.
as financial assets designated as FVTPL.
The maximum exposure to loss is the carrying amount of the assets held.
The Group has not provided financial support or otherwise agreed to be responsible for supporting any consolidated fund financially.
If the fund remains under the control of the Group for more than one year from the original investment date, it will cease to be classified as held for sale, and will be consolidated line-by-line after it is assessed that the Group controls the investment fund in accordance with Included within the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are net gains of 12.8 million FY2015 16: nil relating to the Groups the requirements of IFRS 10.
During the year, two such funds FY2015 16: seven with an aggregate carrying amount of 12.5 million share of the results of the individual statements of comprehensive income for each of the consolidated funds, as follows: FY2015 16: 15.8 million were transferred from held for sale to consolidated funds category.
There was no impact on net assets 2017 2016 or comprehensive income as a result of the transfer.
m m Included within finance income are net gains of 9.3 million FY2015 16: net gains of 4.2 million in relation to held for sale investments.
Finance income 7.8 4.7 Gains losses on investment securities 22.4 5.7 As the Group considers itself to have one segment refer to note 4, no additional segmental disclosure of held for sale assets or liabilities Change in third-party interests in consolidated funds 12.5 3.4 is applicable.
Other expenses 4.9 2.4 b Available-for-sale financial assets Net gains losses on consolidated funds 12.8 Available-for-sale financial assets at 30 June 2017 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: Included in the Groups cash generated from operations is 3.5 million cash utilised in operations FY2015 16: 2.2 million cash utilised in 2017 2016 m m operations relating to consolidated funds.
Equities listed on stock exchange 0.4 As of 30 June 2017, the Groups consolidated funds were domiciled in Guernsey, Indonesia, Luxembourg, Saudi Arabia, and the United States.
Equity funds 11.3 8.4 e Non-current asset investments Seed capital classified as available-for-sale 11.3 8.8 Non-current asset investments relate to the Groups holding in closed-end funds and are designated as FVTPL.
Fair value is assessed by Included within other comprehensive income are net gains of 2.5 million FY2015 16: net gains of 1.1 million in relation to available-for-sale taking account of the extent to which potential dilution of gains or losses may arise as a result of additional investors subscribing to the investments.
fund where the final close of a fund has not occurred.
2017 2016 c Fair value through profit or loss investments m m FVTPL investments at 30 June 2017 comprise shares held in debt and equity funds as follows: Non-current asset investments 22.5 11.7 2017 2016 m m Included within finance income are net gains of 2.5 million FY2015 16: net losses of 0.4 million on the Groups non-current asset investments.
Equity funds 30.2 46.6 Debt funds 5.8 21.6 Seed capital classified as FVTPL investments 36.0 68.2 Included within finance income are net gains of 9.6 million FY2015 16: net losses of 16.3 million on the Groups FVTPL investments.
114 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 11 115 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management Group The Group is subject to strategic and business, client, investment, treasury and operational risks throughout its business as discussed in the Risk management section.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units in investment funds, classified either as held for sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management section on pages 32 to 37.
Capital management It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
The Groups Pillar III disclosures can be found on the Groups website at www.
These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of 448.3 million as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: excess capital of 406.4 million over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
Credit risk The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts when due.
Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk management and control function.
The Group has a counterparty and cash management policy in place which, in addition to other controls, restricts exposure to any single counterparty by setting exposure limits and requiring approval and diversification of counterparty banks and other financial institutions.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial assets subject to credit risk.
2017 2016 Notes m m Investment securities 19 231.2 143.7 Non-current financial assets held for sale 19 7.1 106.7 Available-for-sale financial assets 19 11.3 8.8 Fair value through profit or loss investments 19 36.0 68.2 Derivative financial instruments 19 0.3 Trade and other receivables 17 70.9 61.2 Cash and cash equivalents 432.5 364.0 Total 789.3 752.6 Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held for sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties, which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprising of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A to AAA as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: A to AAA.
All trade and other receivables are considered to be fully recoverable and none were overdue at year end 30 June 2016: none.
They include fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
There is no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of fees owing from clients.
11 116 6 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled Group by delivering cash or other financial assets.
The Group is subject to strategic and business, client, investment, treasury and operational risks throughout its business as discussed in the Risk management section.
This note discusses the Groups exposure to and management of the following principal risks which arise from the In order to manage liquidity risk, there is a Group Liquidity Policy to ensure that there is sufficient access to funds to cover all forecast financial instruments it uses: credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and price risk.
Where the Group holds units committed requirements for the next 12 months.
in investment funds, classified either as held for sale, available-for-sale, FVTPL or non-current asset investment financial assets, the related The maturity profile of the Groups contractual undiscounted financial liabilities is as follows: financial instrument risk disclosures in the note below categorise exposures based on the Groups direct interest in those funds without looking through to the nature of underlying securities.
At 30 June 2017 Risk management is the ultimate responsibility of the Board, as noted in the Risk management section on pages 32 to 37.
More than Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total m m m m Capital management Third-party interests in consolidated funds 53.8 55.1 108.9 It is the Groups policy that all entities within the Group have sufficient capital to meet regulatory and working capital requirements and it conducts regular reviews of its capital requirements relative to its capital resources.
Current trade and other payables 64.2 64.2 118.0 55.1 173.1 As the Group is regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority FCA, it is required to maintain appropriate capital and perform regular calculations of capital requirements.
This includes development of an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, based At 30 June 2016 upon the FCAs methodologies under the Capital Requirements Directive.
The Groups Pillar III disclosures can be found on the Groups website More than at www.
These disclosures indicate that the Group had excess capital of 448.3 million as at 30 June 2017 Within 1 year 1-5 years 5 years Total 30 June 2016: excess capital of 406.4 million over the level of capital required under a Pillar II assessment.
The objective of the assessment is m m m m to check that the Group has adequate capital to manage identified risks and the process includes conducting stress tests to identify capital and Non-current liabilities held for sale 29.8 29.8 liquidity requirements under different future scenarios including a potential downturn.
Third-party interests in consolidated funds 32.1 43.5 75.6 Credit risk Derivative financial instruments 4.5 4.5 The Group has exposure to credit risk from its normal activities where the risk is that a counterparty will be unable to pay in full amounts Current trade and other payables 55.4 55.4 when due.
121.8 43.5 165.3 Exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis by senior management and the Groups Risk management and control function.
Details of leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
Interest rate risk The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market assets subject to credit risk.
2017 2016 The principal interest rate risk is the risk that the Group will sustain a reduction in interest income through adverse movements in interest Notes m m rates.
This relates to bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business.
The Group has a cash management policy which monitors cash Investment securities 19 231.2 143.7 levels and returns within set parameters on a continuing basis.
Non-current financial assets held for sale 19 7.1 106.7 Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the consolidated balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest Available-for-sale financial assets 19 11.3 8.8 earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Fair value through profit or loss investments 19 36.0 68.2 Derivative financial instruments 19 0.3 Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits Trade and other receivables 17 70.9 61.2 2017 2016 % % Cash and cash equivalents 432.5 364.0 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.67 1.01 Total 789.3 752.6 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Investment securities, derivative financial instruments, non-current financial assets held for sale, available-for-sale financial assets and FVTPL investments expose the Group to credit risk from various counterparties, which is monitored and reviewed by the Group.
At 30 June 2017, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have been 2.0 million higher lower FY2015 16: 1.0 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on The Groups cash and cash equivalents, comprising of short-term deposits with banks and liquidity funds, are predominantly held with cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model counterparties with credit ratings ranging from A to AAA as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: A to AAA.
to calculate the effect on profit before tax.
They include In addition, the Group is indirectly exposed to interest rate risk where the Group holds seed capital investments in funds that invest in fee debtors that arise principally within the Groups investment management business.
They are monitored regularly and, historically, default debt securities.
levels have been insignificant, and, unless a client has withdrawn funds, there is an ongoing relationship between the Group and the client.
116 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 11 117 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Group Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, while the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally, which means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries.
The Group also holds a number of seed capital investments denominated mainly in US dollars, Colombian pesos and Indonesian rupiah.
The Groups policy is to hedge a proportion of the Groups revenue by using a combination of forward foreign exchange contracts and options for a period of up to two years forward.
The Group also sells US dollars at spot rates when opportunities arise.
The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Colombian peso and Indonesian rupiah, net of hedging activities.
2017 2016 Impact on Impact on profit Impact on profit Impact on before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m US dollar - 1% 1.8 2.6 2.6 2.7 Euro - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Indonesian rupiah - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 Colombian peso - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Price risk Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Seed capital The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed investments held for sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20.
The Group has well defined procedures governing the appraisal, approval and monitoring of seed capital investments.
At 30 June 2017, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 10.5 million FY2015 16: 11.9 million impact on net assets and the impact on profit before tax would have been 3.3 million FY2015 16: 7.8 million.
Management and performance fees The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees, which are based on a percentage of value of AuM, and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate, which in turn could affect fees earned.
Performance fee revenues could also be reduced depending upon market conditions.
Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Using the year end AuM level of US$58.7 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 52bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$15.3 million impact, equivalent to 11.8 million using year end exchange rate of 1.2946, on management fee revenues FY2015 16: using the year end AuM level of US$52.6 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 55bps, a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$14.5 million impact, equivalent to 10.9 million using year end exchange rate of 1.3234 on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2017, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.
The cumulative fair value of the outstanding foreign exchange hedges asset at 30 June 2017 was 0.3 million 30 June 2016: 4.5 million foreign exchange hedges liability and is included within the Groups derivative financial instrument assets.
11 118 8 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued The notional and fair values of foreign exchange hedging instruments were as follows: Group 2017 2016 Foreign exchange risk Fair value Fair value Notional assets Notional assets Foreign exchange risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in foreign amount liabilities amount liabilities exchange rates.
m m m m The Groups revenue is almost entirely denominated in US dollars, while the majority of the Groups costs are denominated in Sterling.
Cash flow hedges Consequently, the Group has an exposure to movements in the GBP:USD exchange rate.
In addition, the Group operates globally, which Foreign exchange nil-cost option collars 60.0 0.3 85.0 4.5 means that it may enter into contracts and other arrangements denominated in local currencies in various countries.
The Group also holds 60.0 0.3 85.0 4.5 a number of seed capital investments denominated mainly in US dollars, Colombian pesos and Indonesian rupiah.
The maturity profile of the Groups outstanding hedges is shown below.
2017 2016 Notional amount of option collars maturing: m m The table below shows the Groups sensitivity to a 1.0% exchange movement in the US dollar, Colombian peso and Indonesian rupiah, net of Within 6 months 30.0 40.0 hedging activities.
6-12 months 30.0 30.0 2017 2016 12 months 15.0 Impact on Impact on 60.0 85.0 profit Impact on profit Impact on before tax equity before tax equity Foreign currency sensitivity test m m m m When hedges are assessed as effective, intrinsic value gains and losses are initially recognised in other comprehensive income and later reclassified to comprehensive income as the corresponding hedged cash flows crystallise.
Time value in relation to the Groups hedges is US dollar - 1% 1.8 2.6 2.6 2.7 excluded from being part of the hedging item and, as a result, the net unrealised loss related to the time value of the hedges is recognised Euro - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year.
Indonesian rupiah - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.3 A 3.8 million intrinsic gain FY2015 16: 3.9 million intrinsic loss on the Groups hedges has been recognised through other comprehensive Colombian peso - 1% 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 income and 3.7 million intrinsic value loss FY2015 16: 1.7 million intrinsic value gain was reclassified from equity to the statement of comprehensive income in the year.
Price risk Price risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments will fluctuate because of market changes.
Included within the net realised and unrealised hedging loss of 2.8 million note 7 recognised at 30 June 2017 1.1 million gain at 30 June 2016 are: Seed capital a 0.9 million gain in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ending 30 June 2017 The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in market prices in respect of seed capital investments.
Such price risk is borne by the Group FY2015 16: 0.6 million loss in respect of foreign exchange hedges covering net management fee income for the financial year ended directly through interests in available-for-sale and non-current asset seed capital investments or indirectly either through line-by-line consolidation 30 June 2016 : and of underlying financial performance and positions held in certain funds or potential impairments when fair values less costs to sell of seed investments held for sale are less than carrying amounts.
Details of seed capital investments held are given in note 20. a 3.7 million loss in respect of crystallised foreign exchange contracts FY2015 16: 1.7 million gain.
Company The risk management processes of the Company, including those relating to the specific risk exposures covered below, are aligned with At 30 June 2017, a 5% movement in the fair value of these investments would have had a 10.5 million FY2015 16: 11.9 million impact those of the Group as a whole unless stated otherwise.
on net assets and the impact on profit before tax would have been 3.3 million FY2015 16: 7.8 million.
In addition, the risk definitions that apply to the Group are also relevant for the Company.
Management and performance fees The Group is also indirectly exposed to price risk in connection with the Groups management fees, which are based on a percentage of value Credit risk of AuM, and fees based on performance.
Movements in market prices, exchange and interest rates could cause the AuM to fluctuate, which The Companys maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying value of its financial assets.
The table below lists financial in turn could affect fees earned.
assets subject to credit risk by credit rating: Management and performance fees are diversified across a range of investment themes and are not measurably correlated to any single 2017 2016 market index in Emerging Markets.
In addition, throughout Ashmores history, the policy of having funds with year ends staged throughout m m the financial year has meant that in periods of steep market decline, some performance fees have still been recorded.
The profitability impact Cash and cash equivalents 229.7 301.4 is likely to be less than this, as cost mitigation actions would apply, including the reduction of the variable compensation paid to employees.
Trade and other receivables 398.0 285.4 Using the year end AuM level of US$58.7 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 52bps, a 5% movement Total 627.7 586.8 in AuM would have a US$15.3 million impact, equivalent to 11.8 million using year end exchange rate of 1.2946, on management fee The Companys cash and cash equivalents comprise short-term deposits held with banks and liquidity funds which have credit ratings ranging revenues FY2015 16: using the year end AuM level of US$52.6 billion and applying the years average net management fee rate of 55bps, from A to AAA as at 30 June 2017 30 June 2016: A to AAA.
a 5% movement in AuM would have a US$14.5 million impact, equivalent to 10.9 million using year end exchange rate of 1.3234 on management fee revenues.
Hedging activities Liquidity risk The Group uses forward and option contracts to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
These hedges, which have been assessed as The contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to the Companys financial liabilities all fall due within one year.
effective cash flow hedges as at 30 June 2017, protect a proportion of the Groups revenue cash flows from foreign exchange movements.
Details on leases and other commitments are provided in note 30.
118 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 11 119 9 Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Company Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
Bank and similar deposits held at year end are shown on the Companys balance sheet as cash and cash equivalents.
The effective interest earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits 2017 2016 % % Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.30 0.59 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
At 30 June 2017, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been 1.1 million higher lower FY2015 16: 0.5 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
Foreign exchange risk The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany balances.
However, such risk is not hedged by the Company.
At 30 June 2017, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax for the year would have increased decreased by 3.9 million FY2015 16: increased decreased by 3.4 million.
22 Share capital Authorised share capital 2017 2016 2017 Nominal 2016 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 Issued share capital allotted and fully paid 2017 2016 2017 Nominal 2016 Nominal Number of value Number value Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
At 30 June 2017, there were equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 38,579,871 30 June 2016: 39,805,764 shares that have release dates ranging from July 2017 to December 2021.
Further details are provided in note 10.
23 Own shares The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT acts as an agent to acquire and hold shares in Ashmore Group plc with a view to facilitating the recruitment and motivation of employees.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 38,701,321 30 June 2016: 41,173,968 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,870 30 June 2016: 4,117 and shareholders funds are reduced by 115.4 million 30 June 2016: 122.3 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees through the share-based compensation plans.
The EBT is periodically funded by the Company for these purposes.
24 Treasury shares Treasury shares held by the Company 2017 2016 Group and Company Number m Number m Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 12 120 0 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Financial instrument risk management continued Reconciliation of treasury shares 2017 2016 Company Number Number Interest rate risk At the beginning and end of the year 5,368,331 5,368,331 The principal interest rate risk for the Company is that it could sustain a reduction in interest revenue from bank deposits held in the ordinary course of business through adverse movements in interest rates.
The market value of treasury shares was 19.0 million at the year end 30 June 2016: 16.0 million.
The effective interest 25 Trade and other payables earned on bank and similar deposits during the year is given in the table below: Group Group Company Company 2017 2016 2017 2016 Effective interest rates applicable to bank deposits m m m m 2017 2016 Current % % Trade and other payables 29.5 19.9 26.7 39.9 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds 0.30 0.59 Accruals and deferred income 34.7 35.5 1.9 2.5 Deposits with banks and liquidity funds are repriced at intervals of less than one year.
Amounts due to subsidiaries 40.0 7.7 At 30 June 2017, if interest rates over the year had been 50 basis points higher lower with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for Total trade and other payables 64.2 55.4 68.6 50.1 the year would have been 1.1 million higher lower FY2015 16: 0.5 million higher lower, mainly as a result of higher lower interest on cash balances.
An assumption that the fair value of assets and liabilities will not be affected by a change in interest rates was used in the model to 26 Interests in subsidiaries calculate the effect on post-tax profits.
Operating subsidiaries Movements in investments in subsidiaries during the year were as follows: Foreign exchange risk 2017 2016 The Company is exposed primarily to foreign exchange risk in respect of US dollar cash balances and US dollar-denominated intercompany Company m m balances.
Cost At 30 June 2017, if the US dollar had strengthened weakened by 1% against Sterling with all other variables held constant, profit before tax At 30 June 2016 20.0 20.1 for the year would have increased decreased by 3.9 million FY2015 16: increased decreased by 3.4 million.
Disposals 0.1 0.1 22 Share capital At 30 June 2017 19.9 20.0 Authorised share capital During December 2016, Ashmore disposed of its entire interest in Ashmore Portfoy Yonetimi Anonim Sirketi for a cash consideration of 2017 2016 0.4 million resulting in a loss on disposal of 0.2 million.
At the time of sale, associated seed capital positions were redeemed, crystallising 2017 Nominal 2016 Nominal Number of value Number value gains in the period of 0.3 million which have been presented within finance income.
Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 In the opinion of the Directors, the following subsidiary undertakings principally affected the Groups results or financial position at Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 900,000,000 90 900,000,000 90 30 June 2017.
A full list of the Groups subsidiaries and all related undertakings is disclosed in note 33.
Issued share capital allotted and fully paid Country of incorporation 2017 2016 formation and % of equity 2017 Nominal 2016 Nominal principal place shares held Number of value Number value Name of operation by the Group Group and Company shares 000 of shares 000 Ashmore Investments UK Limited England 100.00 Ordinary shares of 0.01p each 712,740,804 71 712,740,804 71 Ashmore Investment Management Limited England 100.00 All the above ordinary shares represent equity of the Company and rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited England 100.00 At 30 June 2017, there were equity-settled share awards issued under the Omnibus Plan totalling 38,579,871 30 June 2016: 39,805,764 Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Colombia 61.00 shares that have release dates ranging from July 2017 to December 2021.
Ashmore CAF-AM Management Company SAS Colombia 53.66 Ashmore Management Company Limited Guernsey 100.00 23 Own shares PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Indonesia 66.67 The Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT acts as an agent to acquire and hold shares in Ashmore Group plc with a view to facilitating Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Japan 100.00 the recruitment and motivation of employees.
As at the year end, the EBT owned 38,701,321 30 June 2016: 41,173,968 ordinary shares of 0.01p with a nominal value of 3,870 30 June 2016: 4,117 and shareholders funds are reduced by 115.4 million 30 June 2016: AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Mauritius 55.00 122.3 million in this respect.
It is the intention of the Directors to make these shares available to employees through the share-based Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Mauritius 100.00 compensation plans.
Ashmore Investments Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia 90.00 Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore 100.00 24 Treasury shares Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation USA 100.00 Treasury shares held by the Company 2017 2016 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation USA 100.00 Group and Company Number m Number m Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC USA 100.00 Ashmore Group plc ordinary shares 5,368,331 6.9 5,368,331 6.9 120 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 12 121 1 Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Interests in subsidiaries continued Consolidated funds The Group consolidated the following investment funds as at 30 June 2017 over which the Group is deemed to have control: Country of % of net incorporation assets value principal place of held by the Name Type of fund operation Group Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Alternatives Guernsey 39.06 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Corporate debt Guernsey 40.02 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Blended debt Guernsey 100.00 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara External debt Indonesia 65.49 Ashmore SICAV Absolute Return Debt Fund Blended debt Luxembourg 70.48 Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Local currency Luxembourg 100.00 Ashmore SICAV Multi Asset Fund Multi-asset Luxembourg 37.73 Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 50.38 Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 72.67 Ashmore Emerging Markets Value Fund Equity USA 62.07 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Opportunities Fund Equity USA 96.75 Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Fund Equity USA 84.60 Ashmore Emerging Markets Hard Currency Debt Fund External debt USA 84.83 27 Interests in associates and joint ventures The Group held interests in the following associates as at 30 June 2017 that are unlisted: Country of incorporation % of equity formation and principal shares held by Name Type Nature of business place of operation the Group VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% Taiping Fund Management Company Associate Investment management China 15% Everbright Ashmore includes four related entities.
Formerly Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited, renamed Taiping Fund Management Company During August 2016, Ashmore reduced its interest in the joint venture Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited ACCSC, from 49% to 15% following the introduction of a new shareholder, Taiping Group.
Ashmore received cash consideration of 4.8 million resulting in a profit of 1.8 million in the period.
ACCSC was renamed Taiping Fund Management Company Limited after the transaction and Ashmore Groups remaining 15% equity interest in the company was reclassified to investment in associate.
Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: 2017 2016 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total m m m m m m At the beginning of the year 1.6 4.7 6.3 1.4 5.9 7.3 Additions disposals 0.1 3.0 2.9 Share of profit loss 0.8 0.8 1.7 1.7 Distributions 0.4 0.4 Reclassification from joint venture to associate 0.9 0.9 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.7 At the end of the year 2.3 2.3 1.6 4.7 6.3 12 122 2 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 26 Interests in subsidiaries continued The summarised aggregate financial information on associates is shown below.
Consolidated funds 2017 2016 Group m m The Group consolidated the following investment funds as at 30 June 2017 over which the Group is deemed to have control: Total assets 3.3 3.9 Country of % of net incorporation assets value Total liabilities 0.3 0.3 principal place of held by the Name Type of fund operation Group Net assets 3.0 3.6 Groups share of net assets 0.9 1.1 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Alternatives Guernsey 39.06 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Corporate debt Guernsey 40.02 Revenue for the year 8.9 0.5 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Blended debt Guernsey 100.00 Profit loss for the year 4.5 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara External debt Indonesia 65.49 Groups share of profit loss for the year 0.8 Ashmore SICAV Absolute Return Debt Fund Blended debt Luxembourg 70.48 The carrying value of the investments in associates includes attributable goodwill that arose on acquisition of the associates.
Although Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Local currency Luxembourg 100.00 the Groups share of net assets of the associates is currently below the aggregate carrying value of the associates reflected on the consolidated balance sheet, the Group has considered that this position is temporary.
No permanent impairment is believed to exist Ashmore SICAV Multi Asset Fund Multi-asset Luxembourg 37.73 relating to the associates.
Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 50.38 The Group has undrawn capital commitments of 4.9 million 30 June 2016: 4.8 million to investment funds managed by the associates.
Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Equity Saudi Arabia 72.67 Further details are provided in note 28.
Ashmore Emerging Markets Value Fund Equity USA 62.07 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Opportunities Fund Equity USA 96.75 28 Interests in structured entities Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Fund Equity USA 84.60 The Group has interests in structured entities as a result of the management of assets on behalf of its clients.
Where the Group holds a Ashmore Emerging Markets Hard Currency Debt Fund External debt USA 84.83 direct interest in a closed-ended fund, private equity fund or open-ended pooled fund such as a SICAV, the interest is accounted for either as a consolidated structured entity or as a financial asset, depending on whether the Group has control over the fund or not.
27 Interests in associates and joint ventures The Groups interest in structured entities is reflected in the Groups AuM.
The Group is exposed to movements in AuM of structured The Group held interests in the following associates as at 30 June 2017 that are unlisted: entities through the potential loss of fee income as a result of client withdrawals.
Outflows from funds are dependent on market sentiment, Country of incorporation % of equity asset performance and investor considerations.
Further information on these risks can be found in the Business review.
formation and principal shares held by Name Type Nature of business place of operation the Group Considering the potential for changes in AuM of structured entities, management has determined that the Groups unconsolidated structured entities include segregated mandates and pooled funds vehicles.
Disclosure of the Groups exposure to unconsolidated VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate Investment management Russia 50% structured entities has been made on this basis.
Everbright Ashmore Associate Investment management China 30% The reconciliation of AuM reported by the Group within unconsolidated structured entities is shown below.
Taiping Fund Management Company Associate Investment management China 15% Everbright Ashmore includes four related entities.
Less: AuM within AuM within unconsolidated Formerly Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited, renamed Taiping Fund Management Company consolidated structured Total AuM funds entities During August 2016, Ashmore reduced its interest in the joint venture Ashmore-CCSC Fund Management Company Limited ACCSC, from US$bn US$bn US$bn 49% to 15% following the introduction of a new shareholder, Taiping Group.
Ashmore received cash consideration of 4.8 million resulting in a 30 June 2017 58.7 0.3 58.4 profit of 1.8 million in the period.
30 June 2016 52.6 0.2 52.4 Movements in investments in associates and joint ventures during the year were as follows: Included in the Groups consolidated management fees of 226.2 million FY2015 16: 197.1 million are management fees amounting to 225.4 million FY2015 16: 195.4 million earned from unconsolidated structured entities.
2017 2016 Associates Joint ventures Total Associates Joint ventures Total The table below shows the carrying values of the Groups interests in unconsolidated structured entities, recognised in the Group balance m m m m m m sheet, which are equal to the Groups maximum exposure to loss from those interests.
At the beginning of the year 1.6 4.7 6.3 1.4 5.9 7.3 2017 2016 Additions disposals 0.1 3.0 2.9 m m Share of profit loss 0.8 0.8 1.7 1.7 Management fees receivable 35.0 29.7 Distributions 0.4 0.4 Trade and other receivables 30.0 24.8 Reclassification from joint venture to associate 0.9 0.9 Seed capital investments 76.9 165.6 Foreign exchange revaluation 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.7 Total exposure 141.9 220.1 At the end of the year 2.3 2.3 1.6 4.7 6.3 The main risk the Group faces from its beneficial interests in unconsolidated structured entities arises from a potential decrease in the fair value of seed capital investments.
The Groups beneficial interests in seed capital investments are disclosed in note 20.
Note 21 includes further information on the Groups exposure to market risk arising from seed capital investments.
122 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 1 12 23 3 Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Interests in structured entities continued The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to structured entities as follows: 2017 2016 m m AA Development Capital India Fund 1 LLC 1.2 1.2 Ashmore Andean Fund II, LP 1.8 Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Private Debt Fund 0.3 1.0 Ashmore I CAF Colombian Infrastructure Senior Debt Fund 15.0 15.2 Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 0.1 0.8 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP 1.6 3.2 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.4 1.4 KCH Healthcare LLC 4.5 5.2 VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, LP 3.5 3.4 Total undrawn investment commitments 29.4 31.4 29 Related party transactions Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, Ashmore funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
Key management personnel Group and Company The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel for employee services is shown below: 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits 1.4 0.9 Defined contribution pension costs Share-based payment benefits 4.8 2.2 6.2 3.1 Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of current year share awards.
Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 73.
During the year, there were no other transactions entered into with key management personnel FY2015 16: none.
Aggregate key management personnel interests in consolidated funds at 30 June 2017 were 42.4 million 30 June 2016: 28.5 million.
Transactions with subsidiaries Company Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: 2017 2016 m m Transactions during the year Management fees 110.3 73.7 Net dividends 99.2 89.6 Loans advanced to repaid by subsidiaries 76.6 16.6 Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 25 respectively.
Transactions with Ashmore Funds Group During the year, the Group received 111.6 million of gross management fees and performance fees FY2015 16: 89.4 million from the 86 funds FY2015 16: 91 funds it manages and which are classified as related parties.
As at 30 June 2017, the Group had receivables due from funds of 5.1 million 30 June 2016: 1.5 million that are classified as related parties.
Transactions with the EBT Group and Company The EBT has been provided with a loan facility to allow it to acquire Ashmore shares in order to satisfy outstanding unvested share awards.
The EBT is included within the results of the Group and the Company.
As at 30 June 2017, the loan outstanding was 103.5 million 30 June 2016: 112.6 million.
Transaction with the Ashmore Foundation Group and Company The Ashmore Foundation is a related party to the Group.
The Foundation was set up to provide financial grants to worthwhile causes within the Emerging Markets countries in which Ashmore invests and or operates with a view to giving back to the countries and communities.
The Group donated 0.1 million to the Foundation during the year FY2015 16: 0.1 million.
12 124 4 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Interests in structured entities continued 30 Commitments The Group has undrawn investment commitments relating to structured entities as follows: Operating lease commitments The Group and Company have entered into certain property leases.
The future aggregate minimum lease payments under non-cancellable 2017 2016 m m operating leases, taking account of escalation clauses and renewal options, fall due as follows: AA Development Capital India Fund 1 LLC 1.2 1.2 Group Ashmore Andean Fund II, LP 1.8 2017 2016 m m Ashmore Emerging Markets Corporate Private Debt Fund 0.3 1.0 Ashmore I CAF Colombian Infrastructure Senior Debt Fund 15.0 15.2 Within 1 year 3.0 3.2 Ashmore I FCP Colombia Infrastructure Fund 0.1 0.8 Between 1 and 5 years 7.3 9.9 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP 1.6 3.2 Later than 5 years 3.3 4.4 Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund 1.4 1.4 13.6 17.5 KCH Healthcare LLC 4.5 5.2 Company VTBC-Ashmore Real Estate Partners I, LP 3.5 3.4 2017 2016 Total undrawn investment commitments 29.4 31.4 m m Within 1 year 1.2 1.2 29 Related party transactions Between 1 and 5 years 4.6 4.6 Related parties of the Group include key management personnel, close family members of key management personnel, subsidiaries, Later than 5 years 1.8 2.9 associates, joint ventures, Ashmore funds, the EBT and the Ashmore Foundation.
7.6 8.7 Key management personnel Group and Company Operating lease expenses are disclosed in note 11.
The compensation paid to or payable to key management personnel for employee services is shown below: 2017 2016 Company m m The Company has undrawn loan commitments to other Group entities totalling 77.5 million 30 June 2016: 124.5 million to support their Short-term employee benefits 1.4 0.9 investment activities but has no investment commitments of its own 30 June 2016: none.
Defined contribution pension costs 31 Post-balance sheet events Share-based payment benefits 4.8 2.2 There are no post-balance sheet events that require adjustment or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
6.2 3.1 32 Accounting estimates and judgements Share-based payment benefits represent the fair value charge to the statement of comprehensive income of current year share awards.
Estimates and judgements used in preparing the financial statements are regularly evaluated and are based upon managements assessment Details of the remuneration of Directors are given in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 73. of current and future events.
The principal estimates and judgements that have a significant effect on the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities are discussed below.
Share-based payment transactions The Group measures the cost of equity-settled and cash-settled share-based awards at fair value at the date of grant and expenses them Transactions with subsidiaries Company over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will vest.
Market-related performance conditions are incorporated Details of transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are shown below: into the grant price of the awards.
The estimation of the likelihood of the performance conditions being met is made at the time of granting 2017 2016 the awards for equity-settled arrangements and also at each reporting date for cash-settled share-based arrangements.
m m Transactions during the year Management fees 110.3 73.7 Net dividends 99.2 89.6 Loans advanced to repaid by subsidiaries 76.6 16.6 Amounts receivable or payable to subsidiaries are disclosed in notes 17 and 25 respectively.
124 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 12 125 5 Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Accounting estimates and judgements Classification of seed capital investments The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private equity funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held for sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held for sale, or a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and redeploy the seed capital.
Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises primarily for self-benefit.
Management also assesses the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party investors have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group considers that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor has the practical ability to remove the Group from acting as fund manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it acts as an agent for third-party investors.
Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by the Group for determining agent versus principal classification.
As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, will account for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial assets have been disclosed in note 20.
The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28.
Impairment of intangible assets The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is determined by reference to the Groups market capitalisation, whereas the recoverable amount for intangible assets is determined based upon value in use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Groups balance sheet at 30 June 2017 was 79.9 million 30 June 2016: 82.5 million.
Management considers that reasonably possible changes in any of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of fund management relationships intangible asset to materially exceed its recoverable value.
The recoverable amount of the intangible asset was determined to be higher than its carrying value as at 30 June 2017.
Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year see note 15.
12 126 6 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Financial Stat Financial statements ements Notes to the financial statements continued 32 Accounting estimates and judgements 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings The following is a full list of the Ashmore Group plc subsidiaries and related undertakings as at 30 June 2017 pursuant to the requirements Classification of seed capital investments of Statutory Instrument 2015 No.
80 The Companies, Partnerships and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2015.
The list includes the The Group invests seed capital from time to time to support the initial launch and growth of new products, such as SICAVs, private equity Groups subsidiaries and related undertakings, all significant holdings greater than 20% interest, associate undertakings, joint ventures and funds and alternative investment funds.
The seed capital investments vary in duration depending on the nature of the product and the time significant holdings in Ashmore sponsored public funds in which the Group has invested seed capital: expected to grow the funds to a size and track record required for participation by third-party investors.
The Group reviews the size and nature of these investments to consider the level of control over the fund and to determine the appropriate classification for accounting either as Name Classification % interest Registered address full consolidation where the Group concludes that it has control over the fund, using equity-method accounting where the Group exercises Ashmore Investments UK Limited Subsidiary 100.00 61 Aldwych, London WC2B 4AE significant influence or joint control, or as a financial asset classified as available-for-sale, held for sale or at fair value through profit or loss.
United Kingdom Ashmore Investment Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 In the case of seed capital investments, where the Group concludes that it does not have control over the fund, the Group is also not deemed Ashmore Investment Advisors Limited Subsidiary 100.00 to have significant influence over the fund, and therefore does not apply equity-method accounting.
The Group would account for the seed capital investment as a financial asset, classified either as an available-for-sale financial asset, financial asset held for sale, or a financial asset Aldwych Administration Services Limited Subsidiary 100.00 at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group considers that its seeding activity is intended to help establish a funds track record and to Ashmore Asset Management Limited Subsidiary 100.00 provide initial scale until the fund has attracted sufficient third-party capital, at which stage the Group will actively seek to redeem and Ashmore Investment Management US Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor redeploy the seed capital.
New York, 10017 Ashmore Equities Holding Corporation Subsidiary 100.00 USA Management exercises judgement to determine whether the Group controls an investment fund under IFRS 10, including making an Ashmore Equities Investment Management US LLC Subsidiary 100.00 assessment of whether the Group has power over the fund which the Group exercises primarily for self-benefit.
Management also assesses Ashmore Investment Management Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Subsidiary 100.00 1 George Street the magnitude of the Groups aggregate economic interest in the fund comprising direct interests, carried interests, expected management #15-04, Singapore 049145 fees, fair value gains or losses, and distributions receivable from funds managed relative to third-party investors, and whether third-party PT Ashmore Asset Management Indonesia Subsidiary 66.67 18 Parc SCBD Tower E, 8th Floor investors have substantive rights to remove the Group from acting as a fund manager without cause.
52-53 Ashmore Dana USD Nusantara Consolidated fund 65.49 The Group has assessed and classified the following fund vehicles as unconsolidated structured entities: Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Ashmore Dana USD Equity Nusantara Significant holding 30.38 Segregated mandates and pooled funds managed where the Group does not hold any direct interest.
In this case, the Group considers Ashmore Management Company Colombia SAS Subsidiary 61.00 Carrera 7 No.
75 -66, Office 702 that its aggregate economic exposure is insignificant and, in relation to segregated mandates, the third-party investor has the practical Bogot, Colombia Ashmore-CAF-AM Management Company SAS Subsidiary 53.66 ability to remove the Group from acting as fund manager, without cause.
As a result, the Group concludes that it acts as an agent for Ashmore Japan Co. Limited Subsidiary 100.00 11F, Shin Marunouchi Building 1-5-1 third-party investors.
Marunouchi Chiyoda-ku Tokyo Pooled funds managed by the Group where the Group holds a direct interest, for example seed capital investments, and the Groups Japan 100-6511 aggregate economic exposure in the fund relative to third-party investors is less than 20% i. e. the threshold established by the Group for Ashmore Investments Colombia SL Subsidiary 100.00 c Hermosilla 11, 4A determining agent versus principal classification.
As a result, the Group concludes that it is an agent for third-party investors and, therefore, 28001 Madrid, Spain will account for its beneficial interest in the fund as a financial asset.
Further details on the carrying values of these seed capital financial Ashmore Management DIFC Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Office 105, Gate Village 03, Level 1 assets have been disclosed in note 20.
Dubai International Financial Centre The disclosure of the AuM in respect of consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities is provided in note 28.
Dubai, UAE AA Indian Development Capital Advisors Private Limited in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 507A Kakad Chambers Impairment of intangible assets Dr Annie Besant Road The Group tests goodwill and intangible assets annually for impairment.
The recoverable amount for goodwill is determined by reference to Ashmore Investment Advisors India Private Limited Subsidiary 99.82 Worli the Groups market capitalisation, whereas the recoverable amount for intangible assets is determined based upon value in use calculations Ashmore-Centrum India Opportunities Investment Advisers Private Subsidiary 51.00 Mumbai 400 018 prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets on the Groups Limited in liquidation India balance sheet at 30 June 2017 was 79.9 million 30 June 2016: 82.5 million.
Management considers that reasonably possible changes in Ashmore-Centrum Funds Trustee Company Private Limited Subsidiary 51.00 any of the key assumptions applied would not cause the carrying value of fund management relationships intangible asset to materially exceed in liquidation its recoverable value.
Ashmore Investment Saudi Arabia Subsidiary 90.00 3rd Floor Tower B Accordingly, no impairment charge was recognised during the year see note 15.
Olaya Towers Ashmore Saudi Equity Fund Consolidated fund 50.38 Olaya Main Street Ashmore Saudi GCC Equity Fund Consolidated fund 72.67 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia AA Development Capital Investment Managers Mauritius LLC Subsidiary 55.00 Les Cascades Building 33 Edith Cavell Street, Port Louis Ashmore Investments Holdings Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Mauritius Ashmore Emerging Markets Special Situation Opportunities Fund Subsidiary 100.00 Trafalgar Court GP Limited Les Banques St Peter Port Ashmore Management Company Limited Subsidiary 100.00 GY1 3QL Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 3 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Guernsey Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 4 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Global Special Situations Fund 5 GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities GP Limited Subsidiary 100.00 Ashmore Special Opportunities Fund LP Consolidated fund 39.06 Ashmore Emerging Markets Distressed Debt Fund Consolidated fund 40.02 Ashmore Emerging Markets Debt and Currency Fund Limited Consolidated fund 100.00 126 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou up p p plc lc | A | An nnu nua all R Re ep port ort a and nd A Acc ccou ount nts s 2 20 017 17 12 127 7 Notes to the financial statements continued 33 Subsidiaries and related undertakings continued Name Classification % interest Registered address Ashmore SICAV Absolute Return Debt Fund Consolidated fund 70.48 6 rue Lou Hemmer L 1748 Senningerberg Ashmore SICAV 2 Global Bond Fund Consolidated fund 100.00 GrandDuchy of Luxembourg Ashmore SICAV Multi-Asset Fund Consolidated fund 37.73 Ashmore SICAV Active Equity Fund Significant holding 35.14 Ashmore SICAV Investment Grade Total Return Fund Significant holding 100.00 Ashmore Emerging Markets Value Fund Consolidated fund 62.07 475 Fifth Avenue, 15th Floor New York, 10017 Ashmore Emerging Markets Equity Opportunities Fund Consolidated fund 96.75 USA Ashmore Emerging Markets Active Equity Fund Consolidated fund 84.60 Ashmore Emerging Markets Hard Currency Debt Fund Consolidated fund 84.83 Ashmore Investment Consulting Beijing Co. Limited in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 Room 3401, Tower 1, China World Trade Center Office, No.
1 Jian Wai Da Jie, Chaoyang District Beijing, China Ashmore Emlak five Yatirim Ltd Sirketi in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 Cmert Sk.
Yap Kredi Plaza C Blok Kat:11 34330 Levent-Istanbul, Turkey Ashmore Investments Turkey NV in liquidation Subsidiary 100.00 Prins Bernhardplein 200, 1097JB Amsterdam, Netherlands Everbright Ashmore China Real Estate Fund Significant holding 22.78 89 Nexus Way Camana Bay, Grand Cayman KY1-9007, Cayman Islands Everbright Ashmore Services and Consulting Limited Associate 30.00 c o Appleby Trust Cayman Ltd. Clifton House, 75 Fort Street EA Team Investment Partners Limited Associate 30.00 PO Box 1350, Grand Cayman KY-1108, Cayman Islands Everbright Ashmore Real Estate Partners Limited Associate 30.00 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman Everbright Ashmore Investment Management Limited Associate 30.00 KY1-9007, Cayman Islands Taiping Fund Management Company Limited Associate 15.00 Unit 101, Building No.
5, 135 Handan Road, Shanghai, China VTB-Ashmore Capital Holdings Limited Associate 50.00 Trafalgar Court Les Banques VTBC-Ashmore Investment Management Limited Associate 50.00 St Peter Port VTBC-Ashmore Partnership Management 1 Limited Associate 50.00 GY1 3QL Guernsey Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements It is possible that this document could or may contain forward-looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
Forward-looking statements often use words such as anticipate, target, expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, will, may, should, would, could or other words of similar meaning.
Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and the Groups plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements.
There are several factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements.
Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements are changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
The Group undertakes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement contained within this document, regardless of whether those statements are affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
12 128 8 A As sh hm mo or re G e Gro rou u p p p plc lc | A | An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po ort rt a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7
