STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 146 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 147 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the Financial Statements continued Glossary 22.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS DPS HOW KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR MEASURES ARE CALCULATED: Within the definition of IAS 24 Related party disclosures, the Board and key management personnel are related parties.
Detailed Dividend Per Share disclosure of the remuneration of the Board is given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 97.
A summary of Land bank years Forward Land remuneration provided to key management personnel is provided in note 7c.
of plots in owned land bank at 30 June divided by Land which is owned or controlled by Redrow, no.
of legal completions in financial year In addition, related party transactions were carried out with parties related to Steve Morgan during the year totalling 0.8m generally under option, which is being promoted Company 0.8m, primarily relating to the donation to The Steve Morgan Foundation as described in the Directors Remuneration through the planning system in order to ultimately Sales outlets Report on page 88 and services provided by Harrow Estates plc on an arms length basis under promotional agreements forming achieve a residential planning consent No.
of sales outlets open at 30 June part of the acquisition of the Harrow business.
HBF Private reservation rate As at 30 June 2017, an amount of nil was due to Harrow Estates plc under normal trading terms.
of private reservations per week in financial There have been no other material transactions with key management personnel.
There is no other difference between year divided by average no.
of sales outlets NHBC transactions with key management personnel of the Company and the Group.
National House Building Council Revenue The Company funds the operating companies through both equity investment and loans at commercial rates of interest.
In Revenue per consolidated income statement PRS addition, the Company provides its subsidiaries with the services of Senior Management, for which a recharge is made to those subsidiary companies based upon utilisation of services.
Private Rented Sector Number of trainees No.
of trainees at 30 June The amount outstanding from subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2017 was 945m 2016: 918m.
The amount owed to SDLT subsidiary undertakings at 30 June 2017 was 14m 2016: 14m.
Stamp Duty Land Tax HBF customer satisfaction rating The Company provided the Groups defined benefit pension scheme, as detailed in note 7e.
Expected service costs were Independent HBF customer satisfaction rating score charged to the operating businesses at cost.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy relating to the charge.
Accident incident rate by site Experience and actuarial gains are recognised in the Company, via the statement of comprehensive income.
of notifiable accidents in financial year divided by The Group did not undertake any transactions with Menta Redrow Limited and Menta Redrow II Limited joint ventures.
of sites Groups loans to its joint ventures are disclosed in note 10.
Return on capital employed ROCE Operating profit before exceptional items adjusted for joint ventures as a percentage of opening and closing capital employed Return on equity ROE Profit before tax before exceptional items adjusted for joint ventures as a percentage of opening and closing net assets Earnings per share EPS Profit attributable to ordinary equity shareholders excluding exceptional items and deferred tax rate changes divided by the weighted average no.
of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year
