Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information I am always impressed by the range of dedicated and talented I am disappointed with this outcome on your behalf.
The Group was people I find across our business.
In February, we promoted Heather already well capitalised, and we are now even more so.
However, Cooper, our Chief People Officer, to the Executive Committee, the Board retains a commitment to paying special dividends in the recognising how our people are integral to our future success.
future and I am confident that Hargreaves Lansdown continues to have sufficient liquidity and capital to execute its strategy without In May 2017, I announced my intention to stand down as Chairman further constraints.
once a suitable replacement had been appointed.
The search process is well underway.
We have recommended the appointment Conclusion of two new Non-Executive Directors who will be appointed as soon It has been a real privilege to have served as your Chairman for the as regulatory approval is received.
This will ensure that we have past eight years.
I am incredibly proud of how the Group has anappropriate range of skills and experience on the Board evolved into a FTSE 100 organisation over this period and firmly goingforward.
established itself as the UKs leading retail savings and investments platform.
Iwould like to thank all those I have worked with here, Remuneration both past and present, and wish them and the business well in At Hargreaves Lansdown, we strive to attract and retain people who thefuture.
create value for both our clients and shareholders.
Over the past year, we have listened to the external debate on the structure of executive remuneration, consulted with our shareholders and Mike Evans responded thoughtfully to their concerns.
We are now proposing Chairman arevised remuneration policy which we believe strikes an appropriate balance between these factors and what is right for our 14 August 2017 organisation.
This is explained fully in the Directors remuneration report and I hope you will be supportive of these changes at our upcoming AGM.
Dividend Hargreaves Lansdown is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
On 3 August 2017, the FCA notified the Group that it intends to reassess its regulatory capital requirements given the Groups strong recent growth in scale and complexity.
The revised assessment means we had to retain an additional 50m of capital to ensure the Groups regulatory capital surplus during 2018 is sufficient.
As a result, on 4 August 2017, the Group clarified its dividend policy and announced it would not pay a special dividend for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
Further details on our liquidity and capital management approach are contained in the Operating and financial review.
In line with our policy and the notification from the FCA, the Group is today declaring a final dividend of 20.4p per share.
Following the interim dividend of 8.6p pence per share which was paid in March, this takes the total ordinary dividend for the year to 29.0 pence per share, an increase of 20% over 2016.
This generates a total ordinary dividend payout ratio of 65% for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
The 2017 total dividend of 29.0p 2016 34.0p per share is down by 15% reflecting our decision not to pay a special dividend this year.
05 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
