Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Significant opportunities in a growing market 3% 7% Hargreaves Lansdown: 38% D2C platform market Private wealth market Private wealth cash market 190 billion 1.1 trillion 2.4 trillion The execution-only market has 190 billion Add in advised assets and the total The cash market is worth a further of assets.
Hargreaves Lansdown has a private wealth market has 1.6 trillion of 1.3trillion.
Hargreaves Lansdown has 38% market share.
We believe we are a solution for a3% market share and intends to launch 1.1 trillion of this.
Hargreaves Lansdown acash management service and begin has a 7% market share.
The size of the private wealth market provides significant Market development opportunity for transfers onto our platform.
Transfers come from The markets for the Groups products and services continue to across the market spectrum, showing our appeal to clients who evolve as individuals savings and investment needs react to the currently hold assets elsewhere.
Many existing clients look to changing regulatory and market environment.
With continued low transfer and consolidate their investments in one easy to manage interest rates, Stocks and Shares ISAs remain attractive.
The current place, while for new clients the opening of an account and a ISA allowance was raised from 15,240 to 20,000 for the tax year subsequent transfer may be triggered through a desire to have a commencing 6 April 2017.
For some clients this provides additional more modern and superior service.
With 44% of UK investors now scope for tax efficient investing, particularly for higher earners who claiming to deal with their investments themselves, up from 29% in stand to lose some of their annual pension allowance and are 2 late 2013, there should be continued impetus in the growth of the impacted by the lower lifetime allowances.
With the threat of further execution-only market.
tinkering to the pension rules, the ISA increasingly becomes a long-term investment plan for many and hence provides a significant opportunity for new business flows.
According to HMRC, the Stocks and Shares ISA market is estimated at 267 billion with an additional 251 billion held in Cash ISAs.
Based on recent HMRC data the average annual amount subscribed into ISAs over the past three tax years has been c73 billion.
These statistics clearly demonstrate the significant opportunity to gather more assets into our core ISA products.
09 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Market outlook Demographics and longevity alone will provide growth drivers in The design of the UKs retirement savings the key segments but if the UK savings gap can be better addressed then further impetus could be had, particularly in the younger system continues to be a work in progress segments.
Although other segments are not so key in terms of the for the government.
opportunity, they still need engagement and investment solutions and Hargreaves Lansdown through its breadth of offering can address them too.
On 6 April 2017, the new Lifetime ISA LISA was launched.
This is open to UK citizens between the ages of 18 and 40 and any savings Alongside risk-based investments, investors continue to hold cash added to the LISA before their 50th birthday will receive an added despite persistent low interest rates on cash savings.
Our research 25% bonus from the government.
The savings allowance is capped shows that there is a further 1.3 trillion of cash held in the UK.
at 4,000 per annum and can be used towards a deposit on a first Adding a solution for managing cash savings will therefore greatly home worth up to 450,000 or towards saving for retirement, increase our addressable market and hence why we have been whereby, after their 60th birthday individuals can withdraw all developing Active Savings our digital deposit service.
Our LISA launched just after midnight on 6 April 2017 and we opened our first one within two minutes.
Competition By 30 June 2017, we had seen 14,550 accounts opened with Much is made of the increasingly competitive landscape and 36 million of invested assets.
Half of these clients were new to indeed, new competitors continue to enter the market with Hargreaves Lansdown.
Although it is early days for this new type innovative technology and new solutions.
We are never complacent ofISA, it could provide fresh impetus for adults to boost their and continue to watch the competitive landscape closely.
Where long-term savings and for others to start saving for the first time competition raises further awareness of saving and improves using risk-based investments rather than cash.
financial awareness we see this as a good thing.
Healthy competition is also good in delivering better outcomes for investors.
Pension auto-enrolment in the UK has continued with more than Scale, however, remains key to becoming successful and achieving eight million having now been enrolled into a workplace pension this relies on a deep understanding of investors and their needs, with both employee and employer contributions being made.
which is something we continue to really focus on.
Once scale is Escalating minimum contributions have been set so that by 6 April achieved, sustainable profits rely on continued investment in 2019 the minimum contribution will be 9% of which the employer technology, people and a focus on clients.
Standing still is not an will have to pay a minimum of 4%.
The workplace will continue to option and Hargreaves Lansdown is always looking to improve the play a pivotal role in retirement saving.
The auto-enrolment experience for our clients, ensuring value for money is delivered.
programme has delivered demonstrable successes and we expect future government policy to build on this.
Our Corporate Vantage Regulation service is directed at segments of this market and existing schemes Regulation is an ever present theme in financial services and takes we administer will also benefit from auto-enrolment contributions.
up a considerable amount of time and resources.
Hargreaves The design of the UKs retirement savings system continues to Lansdown is well placed to address the challenge this brings and beawork in progress for the government.
Auto-enrolment is believes the increasing regulation effectively forms a barrier to undoubtedly helping and has brought millions of new savers entry.
Our primary regulator is the FCA and it oversees all aspects intothe pension system.
However, many millions are still either ofour work, from how we manage our platform, give advice and under-saving for retirement or not saving at all.
The growth of runour fund management operations to how we communicate money purchase pensions is mirrored by a rapid decline in toour clients.
Two years on from the launch of Pension Freedoms, this policy initiative to put ownership of pension savings more directly in the hands of individual investors is proving popular and has helped to reinvigorate interest in retirement savings.
The Treasurys review of pension tax relief did not result in wholesale change to pension tax breaks, however, future changes cannot be ruled out.
Whatever changes in detail occur, we are confident that government support for increased private pension provision is robust and this is likely to mean continued tax advantages and policy decisions designed to promote increased retirement saving.
With individuals taking more responsibility for pension saving, we believe pension providers such as Hargreaves Lansdown, which help investors to self-manage their retirement savings, are likely to continue to prosper.
10 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information I opened my Stocks & Shares ISA around a year ago.
I didnt realise how simple Previously Id used Cash ISAs, but my fixed rate deal was coming to an end.
With interest rates so low I felt that investing in funds would be better.
a Stocks & Shares ISA was Mr Andrews from Essex My dad is a Hargreaves Lansdown client and he suggested I take a look at your website.
I was very impressed with the quality of the website and the information available.
To be honest I didnt realise how simple a Stocks & Shares ISA was and how easy it is to invest through you.
Since opening my ISA my wife and I have both transferred Cash ISAs over to Hargreaves Lansdown and invested in stocks and shares.
Just like opening my ISA, the transfer process was really easy and theres a handy indicator available in your online account which keeps you updated with the progress of the transfer.
Ive been impressed by the simplicity of it all.
11 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
