STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 118 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies Both the consolidated and Company financial statements have The Group has taken advantage of the exemption provided In respect of social housing, the Group enters into contracts for INTANGIBLE ASSETS COMPUTER SOFTWARE beenprepared in accordance with International Financial under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present the sale of social housing either at an agreed price or at a Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union Redrow plcs Company income statement.
The profit for the discount to open market value.
Payment for these properties is basis of costs incurred to bring to use the specific software and EU and effectiveat 30 June 2017, and in accordance with IFRS financial year is dealt with in the statement of changes made by the purchaser, either on legal completion of the unit are amortised over their estimated useful lives of three years, Interpretations Committee interpretations and the Companies inequity.
or, in certain circumstances on a staged basis.
Revenues in all charged toadministrative expenses.
These are reviewed for Act 2006 asit applies to companies reporting under IFRS and cases are recognised on the legal completion of the built home.
impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances a.
Subsidiaries Article 4 ofthe IAS Regulation and in accordance with the indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
Profit is recognised on legal completion.
historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of Subsidiaries are all entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT SEGMENTAL REPORTING or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the Freehold property comprises offices or other buildings held The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS The main operation of the Group is focused on housebuilding.
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its for administrative purposes.
Freehold property is shown at requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from cost less thesubsequent depreciation of buildings.
As it operates entirely within the United Kingdom, the Group reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance sheet the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are has only one business and geographic segment.
This is dateand the reported amounts of revenue and expenses deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
Identifiable All other property, plant and equipment is stated at historic consistent with the information provided for internal reporting during the reporting period.
Whilst these estimates are based assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities cost less depreciation.
Historic cost includes any costs directly purposes to the Chief Operating Decision Maker the Board.
on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or assumed in a business combination are measured at their attributable to bringing the assets to the location and condition The Group has no key customers.
actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those fair value at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost necessary for them to be capable of operating in the manner estimates refer to note 1. of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the intended by management.
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS identifiable net assets represents goodwill.
Goodwill is subject The financial statements have been prepared on a going Exceptional items are those which in the opinion of the Land is not depreciated.
Depreciation on other assets is to an annual impairment review, with any reduction in value concern basis.
Board, are material by size or nature, non-recurring and charged so as to write off the cost of assets to their residual being taken straight to the income statement.
Adjustments are of such significance that they require separate disclosure.
values over their estimated useful lives, on a straight line basis made as necessary to the financial statements of subsidiaries Redrow plc is a public listed company, listed on the London as follows: to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by theGroup.
Stock Exchange and domiciled in the UK.
NET FINANCING COSTS All inter-company transactions and balances between Group Interest income is recognised on a time apportioned basis by Buildings within freehold property 50 years The principal accounting policies have been applied companies are eliminated on consolidation.
reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest Plant and machinery 510 years consistently in the periods presented apart from the change in rate.
Interest costs are recognised in the income statement on accounting policy in respect of Forward land.
This change in Fixtures and fittings 35 years b.
Interests in joint ventures an accruals basis in the period in which they are incurred.
accounting policy to initially recognise expenditure relating to The Group applies IFRS 11 to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS forward land options and conditional contracts in inventory at The assets useful lives are reviewed and adjusted if INCOME AND DEFERRED TAX 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either cost has given rise to the restatement outlined in the table appropriate at each balance sheet date.
joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax.
below together with a reclassification of customer deposits: rights and obligations of each investor.
Redrow plc has These are reviewed for impairment whenever events or Current tax is based on taxable profits for the year and any assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may Restated Original appropriate adjustment to tax payable in respect of prior years.
2016 2016 them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for not be recoverable.
m m Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as shown in the using the equity method.
income statement as it excludes income or expenditure items The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset represents Land for development 1,282 1,215 which are never chargeable or allowable for tax or which are Under the equity method of accounting, interests in joint the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying Payments on account within inventories 33 61 chargeable or deductible in other accounting periods.
ventures are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Customer deposits within trade payables 65 to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or Deferred tax is provided in full, using the balance sheet liability INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
When Current income tax liabilities 30 24 method, on temporary differences arising between the carrying the Groups share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds In the parent company books, the investment in its subsidiaries Retained earnings 937 913 amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial its interests in the joint ventures, the Group does not recognise is held at cost less any impairment.
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made calculation oftaxable profit.
LEASES The principal accounting policies are outlined below: payments on behalf of the joint ventures.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards of Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as probable that taxable profits will be available against which its joint ventures are eliminated to the extent of the Groups The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial operating leases.
Rentals payable under operating leases are deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax interest in the joint ventures.
Unrealised losses are also statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with charged to work in progress or income on a straight line basis liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences.
Deferred eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an the Groups share of the results and share of net assets of over the termof the relevant lease.
tax is calculated atthe rates enacted at the balance sheet date.
impairment of the asset transferred.
jointly controlled entities i. e. the financial statements of Redrow plc and entities controlled by Redrow plc and its subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is credited or charged in the income statement, REVENUE AND PROFIT RECOGNITION Control is achieved where Redrow plc has the power to govern consolidated statement of comprehensive income, or retained Revenue represents the fair value received and receivable the financial and operating policies of an entity.
Redrow plcs earnings as appropriate.
in respect of the sale of residential housing and land and of accounting reference date is 30 June.
Consistent with the commercial land and developments net of value added tax normal monthly reporting process, the actual date to which and discounts.
This is recognised on legal completion.
the balance sheet has been drawn up is 2 July 2017 2016: 26June2016.
For ease of reference, all references to the year or 12 months and financial position are for the year ended 30June and as at 30 June.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 120 Redrow plc Annual Report 2017 121 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Policies continued will receive on retirement.
It is funded through payments to between the proceeds, net of transaction costs and the INVENTORIES FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS trustee administered funds, determined by actuarial valuations redemption value is recognised in the income statement Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable a.
Land creditors carried out on at least a triennial basis.
A defined contribution over the period of the borrowings.
value lesscash on account which represents payments made Deferred payments arising from land creditors are held at plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays agreed against work in progress, excluding private customer deposits.
discounted present value using the effective interest method, f. Deposits contributions into a separate fund for each employee and any in accordance with IAS 39.
The difference between the fair subsequent pension payable to a specific employee is Cost comprises land and associated acquisition costs, direct New property deposits from private customers are held within value and the nominal value is amortised over the deferment determined by the amount accumulated in their individual fund.
materials and subcontract work, other direct costs and those Trade and Other payables until the legal completion of the period via financing costs.
The GPP is also a type of defined contribution plan.
overheads based on normal operating capacity that have related property or the rescission of the sale contract.
been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present The interest rate applied is an equivalent loan rate available The asset liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect location and condition, excluding borrowing costs.
These on the date of the land purchase.
of the defined benefit section of the scheme is the present ONEROUS CONTRACTS include infrastructure and development costs such value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet Onerous contracts are contracts in which the unavoidable as roads and sewers, including contributions to other b.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge date, less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit costs in meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the community benefits such as schools, medical centres accounting obligation is determined using the projected unit credit method economic benefits expected to be received under it.
on an annual basis by an independent scheme actuary.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recorded at fair is made to reflect managements best current estimate of the value and the fair value is remeasured to fair value at each Total land costs are allocated to the private housing on a least net cost of either fulfilling or exiting the contract.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience reporting date.
development as, in the case of amenity land and social housing adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are SHARE CAPITAL land, neither has sufficient contribution from sales of the charged or credited to equity asthey arise in full via the The Groups use of financial derivatives is governed by an precise area of the land to cover the land costs and are a statement of comprehensive income.
Ordinary shares are classed as equity.
interest rate risk management framework adopted by the planning requirement of the development.
Board which sets parameters to ensure an appropriate level Scheme service costs are charged to cost of sales and DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION of hedging is maintained to manage interest rate risk in administrative expenses as appropriate and scheme finance Provisions are established to write down land where the Dividend distribution to the Companys shareholders is respect of borrowings.
costs are included in net financing costs.
Past service costs estimated net sales proceeds less costs to complete exceed recognised as a liability in the Groups financial statements are recognised immediately inincome.
Adjustments to the provisions will The policy prohibits any trading in derivative financial in the period in which the dividends are declared.
be required where selling prices or costs to complete change.
instruments or their use for speculative purposes.
In respect of the defined contribution section of the Scheme IMPACT OF NEW STANDARDS AND Net realisable value for land was assessed by estimating and the GPP, contributions are recognised as an employee The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivative INTERPRETATIONS selling prices and cost including sales and marketing benefit expense when they are due.
The Group has no further financial instruments which are designated and which qualify expenses, taking into account current market conditions.
a New and amended standards adopted by the payment obligations in respect of the above once the as cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity in a Group.
The following new standards and amendments contributions have been paid.
This net realisable value provision will be closely monitored hedge reserve.
The gains or losses relating to the ineffective to standards are mandatory for the first time for the for adequacy and appropriateness as regards under and over portion are recognised in the income statement immediately b.
Bonus plans financial year beginning 1 July 2016: provision toreflect circumstances at future balance sheet they arise.
The Group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of dates.
Any material change to the underlying provision will where contractually obliged.
c. Loans and receivables an interest in a joint operation be reflected through cost of sales as an exceptional item.
Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and c. Share-based payments FORWARD LAND with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in IAS 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation Expenditure relating to forward land options, conditional Equity settled share-based payments are measured at fair an active market.
They are included in current assets, except Amendments to IAS 27, Separate financial statements on contracts and land owned without planning is initially value on the date of grantand expensed on a straight line for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet the equity method recognised in inventory at cost.
It is reviewed regularly for basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate date which are classified as non-current assets.
of shares that will eventually vest.
Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements receivables include trade receivables and other receivables on the disclosure initiative and cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS d. Termination benefits Annual improvements 2014.
These set of amendments Termination benefits are payable when employment is a.
Pension obligation Trade receivables are held at discounted present value less impact four standards: terminated bythe Group before normal retirement date by any impairment.
The amount is then increased to settlement The Group operates two pension schemes for its staff.
Thesebenefits are recognised by the Group in IFRS 5, Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued value overthe settlement period via financing income.
Redrow Staff Pension Scheme the Scheme closed to the the period in which it becomes demonstrably committed to operations regarding methods of disposal.
accrual of new benefits with effect from 1 March 2012, with new d. Cash and cash equivalents terminating the employment of current employees according benefits now being provided via the Redrow Group Personal IFRS 7, Financial instruments: Disclosures, with to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call Pension Plan the GPP.
The Scheme is externally invested and consequential amendments to IFRS 1 regarding deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, comprises two sections: a defined benefit section and a defined servicing contracts.
forming an integral part of the Groups cash management contribution section.
A defined benefit plan is a pension plan IAS 19, Employee benefits regarding discount rates.
are included as a component ofcash and cash equivalents which defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee for the purpose of the statement of cashflows.
IAS 34, Interim financial reporting regarding disclosure of information.
e. Borrowings and trade payables The implementation of these standards has not had a Interest bearing borrowings and trade payables are recorded material impact on the Group financial statements.
when theproceeds are received, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently at amortised cost.
