Governance Investment Committee report Role of the Investment Committee The Committee is tasked with providing challenge and oversight to the investment business, including investment research decision making, Alternative Investment Fund Management Directive AIFMD compliance, policies and outcomes relating to Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager funds, HL Select funds, Portfolio Management Services PMS, HL Portfolio, Wealth 150, Master Portfolios and Foundation Portfolios and the marketing of thirdparty funds.
In providing independent challenge, the Committee assists the Board with its Multi-Manager funds AIFMD oversight requirements relating to asset allocation, investment strategy and performance, together with oversight of the investment risk management process.
Investment Committee membership andattendance The Committee meets at least four times a year, there were four scheduled meetings during the year and additional ad hoc meetings where required.
I chair the Committee and its other members at Dear shareholder 30 June 2017 were Stephen Robertson, Lee Gardhouse Chief Investment Officer, Ian Hunter Marketing Director and Rob Byett I am pleased to present the Investment Committees report for 2017.
The Research Director also routinely As from 1 August 2016 the Committee became a full committee of attends meetings.
the Board, having previously been a responsibility of the Executive Committee.
The Committee was established to provide oversight of The members of the Committee at 30 June 2017 and attendees at the investment part of the Group, including its governance and the four committees held during the 12 month periodwere: product offerings.
Over the period, the Committee has received information from the investment business regarding the Groups Meetings eligible Meetings investment product range and performance, as well as information to attend attended relating to the controls framework and risks.
Chairman The Committee has also overseen the launch of the new HL Select Jayne Styles 4 4 funds and continues to provide challenge to the executive team in Members relation to all aspects of the investment business.
Stephen Robertson 4 4 Non-plc director members Rob Byett 4 4 Lee Gardhouse 4 4 Ian Hunter 4 4 Stuart Louden stood down September 2016 1 1 54 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information On an ongoing basis, membership of the Committee is reviewed by Investment Committee allocation of time the Chairman of the Committee and any recommendations for new The chart below provides an illustration of the approximate appointments are made to the Nomination Committee for onward percentage of time spent by the Committee on various matters recommendation to the Board.
Following year end, the composition during 2016 17: of the Committee was changed.
Philip Johnson has been appointed to the Committee with effect from 10 August 2017 to provide Investment Team reports % additional oversight expertise given his previous experience, and Risk & Compliance % Governance % the non-plc director members became attendees only.
Product oe rings % Main activities during the year In discharging its responsibilities the Committee concentrated on the following areas: Risk and compliance, including monitoring of conflicts of interest, and challenge to the policies, such as personal account dealing, as well as review of regular risk updates from the Groups risk function.
Liquidity calculations and testing for the HL MultiManager funds have been challenged, and the Committee has also provided challenge in respect of the life styling process for corporate clients: Signed on behalf of the Investment Committee.
Consideration of investment team updates, which cover HLMulti-Manager fund performance information, as well as information about the performance of the HL Select funds, PMS, Jayne Styles HL Portfolio, Wealth 150, Master Portfolios and Foundation Chairman of the Investment Committee Portfolios.
The updates also include market information, and 14 August 2017 oversight of the communication process to clients in respect of Hargreaves Lansdowns investment products, particularly in respect of the new HL Select fund launches.
The Committee also reviewed the flows of business into and out of the Groups investment offerings: The Committee received and discussed a gap analysis that considered whether there are any products being offered which do not fully satisfy our clients requirements, and whether there were any further products which could be offered to further enhance our clients experience: and Challenge andoversight of the HL Select Equity fund launches, and for providing arecommendation to the Board regarding the launch of the newproducts.
55 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
