Glossary of alternative financial performance measures Within the report and financial statements various alternative financial performance measures are referred to, which are non-GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice measures.
They are used in order to provide a better understanding of the performance of the Group and the table below states those which have been used, how they have been calculated and why they have been used.
Measure Calculation Why we use this measure Dividend pay-out ratio % The total dividend per share divided by the basic Provides a measure of the level of profits paid out to earnings per share EPS for a financial year.
shareholders and the level retained in the business.
Dividend per share Total dividend payable relating to a financial year Dividend per share is pertinent information to pence per share divided by the total number of shares eligible to shareholders and investors and provides them with receive a dividend.
Note ordinary shares held in the the ability to assess the dividend yield of the Hargreaves Lansdown Employee Benefit Trust have Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares.
agreed to waive all dividends.
Operating costs The costs as per the income statement excluding In light of the transitional period relating to the Retail commission payable i. e. the aggregate of staff Distribution Review see net revenue below and the costs, other operating costs and FSCS costs.
impact this had on commission payable in the form of loyalty bonuses, this measure of operating costs provides a more useful comparative measure over time.
Provides a measure of profitability of the core Operating profit margin Profits after deducting operating costs but before the impact of finance income and other gains or operating activities and excludes non-core items.
Net revenue Total revenue less commission payments whichare Because of the changes brought about to the client primarily loyalty bonuses paid to Vantage clients.
charging structure by the Retail Distribution Review See consolidated income RDR there was a transitional period from 1 March Statement on page98 for the 2014 to 1 April 2016.
From 1 March 2014, revenue reconciliation ofnet revenue was increased as Hargreaves Lansdown earned both a new platform fee from clients and the existing renewal commission from the fund management groups based on the value of funds held by clients.
Atthe same time the loyalty bonus paid to clients was significantly increased on the pre-RDR funds to largely mitigate the impact of the new platform fee.
Inorder to aid comparability during the period of transition to 1 April 2016 the net revenue measure became the most useful comparative measure of revenue as it better reflected the underlying income relating to funds held by clients.
Net recurring revenue The total value of renewal commission after Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings.
deducting loyalty bonuses, platform fees, Webelieve recurring revenue provides greater profit management fees and interest earned on resilience and hence is of higher quality than clientmoney.
Percentage of recurring net The total value of renewal commission after Provides a measure of the quality of our earnings.
revenue % deducting loyalty bonuses, platform fees, Webelieve recurring revenue provides greater profit management fees and interest earned on client resilience and hence is of higher quality than money divided by the total net revenue.
144 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Measure Calculation Why we use this measure Net revenue margin bps Total net revenue divided by the average value of Provides the most comparable means of tracking, assets under administration which includes the over time, the margin earned on the assets under Portfolio Management Services assets under administration and is used by management to assess management held in funds on which a platform fee business performance.
Net revenue margin from cash Net revenue from cash net interest earned on the Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin bps value of client money held on the platform divided earned on cash held by our clients.
by the average value of assets under administration held as client money.
Net revenue margin from Net revenue derived from funds held by clients Provides the most comparable means of tracking, funds bps platform fees, initial commission less loyalty over time, the margin earned on funds held by bonus divided by the average value of assets ourclients.
under administration held as funds, which includes the Portfolio Management Services assets under management held in funds on which a platform fee is charged.
Net revenue margin from HL Management fees derived from HL Funds but Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin Funds excluding the platform fee divided by the average earned on HL Funds.
value of assets held in the HL Funds.
Net revenue margin from Net revenue from shares stockbroking Provides a means of tracking, over time, the margin shares bps commissions, management fees where shares are earned on shares held by our clients.
held in a SIPP or ISA, less the cost of dealing errors divided by the average value of assets under administration held as shares.
Recurring revenue Revenue that is received every month depending We believe recurring revenue provides greater profit on the value of assets held on the platform, resilience and hence is of higher quality than including platform fee, management fees and non-recurring revenue.
interest earned on client money.
Transactional revenue Revenue that is non-recurring in nature and Such revenue is not as high quality as recurring dependent on a client instruction such as a deal to revenue but helps to show the diversification of our buy or sell shares or take advice.
145 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
