Strategic report How we create value High client satisfaction and high retention rates grow AUA 954,000 79.2 billion active clients Assets Under Administration Growing AUA and clients delivers increased revenue opportunities through our diversified offering ISAs SIPP Fund & Share Stockbroking More than 660,000 accounts More than 320,000 accounts More than 300,000 accounts UKs No.
1 31 billion AUA 26 billion AUA 20 billion AUA 30% market share HL Fund Manager Junior ISA Lifetime ISA Corporate Vantage 10 Multi-Manager funds UKs No.
1 provider First to launch on 6 April 2017 387 schemes 2 Equity funds, 8.8 billion 81,000 accounts 14,550 clients 82,000 members AUA 2.5 billion AUA Portfolio Portfolio Management Service HL Active Savings Other services Ready-made investing Our discretionary managed Cash management service in Annuities, foreign currency managed by experts, solution, 3.5 billion AUA development service, VCTs, certificated 682 million AUA share dealing 12 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information High client satisfaction and Scalable growth high retention rates grow AUA Key revenue streams are recurring in nature providing high quality earnings.
Other transactional revenue grows as we gather more clients.
Revenue 77% net recurring revenue Scalable platform 68% operating profit margin Profits Dividends Scalability delivers high operating profit margins and can also be used to benefit clients Cash & capital Reinvested for growth Reinvestment Operating profits quickly turn to cash enabling reinvestment into the core platform and new opportunities, driving further client and asset growth.
Revenues Use of profits We generate revenues based on the value of assets managed on We generate an attractive stream of profits which convert almost our platform, activity levels of our clients and a net interest margin entirely into cash.
Our use of profits is determined by our dividend on uninvested cash.
By attracting net new business and providing policy, which takes account of market conditions and the Groups incredible service we are well positioned to grow revenues across growth, investment and regulatory capital requirements at the time.
Although the Board retains the flexibility to change how we deploy profits, we have consistently returned a high proportion of profits to Scalable platform shareholders via dividends.
We operate a single platform across our entire client base, allowing us to support our growing business while maintaining client service levels.
We are continually investing in this platform to enhance its robustness, security and efficiency.
This approach has allowed us to generate industry leading operating margins of 68%.
We look to use this scale and market position to benefit our clients.
It allows us to invest in extending our offering and capabilities while ensuring we maintain service levels to our desired standard.
It also allows us to secure attractive fund discounts, competitive share dealing and access to a broad range of fund launches and retail IPOs.
13 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
