Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the profit or loss of the Group and parent company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed for the Company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and The Directors are responsible for Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis preparing the Annual Report and the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and parent financial statements in accordance company will continue in business.
with applicable law and regulation.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the parent companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and parent companys performance, business model and strategy.
86 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in theGovernance section, on page 36, confirm that, to the best oftheir knowledge: The parent company financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company: The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and parent company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board Philip Johnson Chief Financial Officer 14 August 2017 87 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Empowering people to save and invest with confidence Award winning ISA and SIPP products Our Stocks and Shares ISA offers a tax-efficient way to help our client's money grow.
ISAs are wrappers in which savings and investments are sheltered from capital gains tax and UK income tax.
Each year, each individual has an ISA allowance: this tax year the allowance is 20,000.
Our ISA offerings are very popular and we have over 676,000 ISA accounts with AUA of 31.9 billion.
Our SIPPs are one of the most tax-efficient and flexible ways of saving for retirement.
Our Vantage SIPP offers online management, low costs, award-winning service and a wide investment choice.
Pension contribution rules are complex but we do our best to help our clients save for a better retirement.
We have over 324,000 SIPP accounts with AUA of 26.2 billion.
For more information, please see w ww.
co. uk investment-services 88 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Empowering people to save and invest with confidence P rotected Empowering people to save and invest with confidence Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017 89
