Strategic report Market outlook Addressable market We are well positioned to benefit Managing investments in one place with a trusted company that makes things easy is an ambition for many investors and this from demographic trends in an consolidation process is a journey that many of them go through attractive market with us given the range of client offering we have.
Such consolidation of investments on to platforms has driven the UK D2C platform market to 190 billion, of which Hargreaves Lansdown has Market background 1 a 37.8% market share.
Investors in the UK have differing degrees of financial awareness.
Some are confident but face ever increasing complexities from The UK private wealth market, however, is estimated as c1.6 trillion, regulation, choice and technology.
Others are less financially aware of which we see c1.1 trillion as addressable, giving an implied and need more help in beginning their journey into savings and market share for Hargreaves Lansdown of c7%.
Whether to navigate the complexities or empower platform space the bulk of this addressable market is held through themwith confidence to begin investing, there is a demand for new independent financial advisers, independent wealth managers and and improved products and solutions to help them secure their vertically integrated firms.
A significant amount of this investment future aspirations.
pool will have been initially advised upon, maybe many years ago, but now receives no ongoing advice.
This provides a rich source Investing for the future is clearly not something the UK is engaging ofpotential transfers to Hargreaves Lansdown as clients look to well with given that the UK savings ratio has plunged to an all-time consolidate all their investments on to our platform.
low of 1.7% as per Office for National Statistics ONS 30 June This 1.1 trillion is concentrated across c7 million people with 2017.
The UK savings gap, being the gap between retirement 100,000 or more of investments source: ONS.
Within this expectations and the cost of funding such expectations, is 1 population there are key segments for us such as Peak savers, estimated at 314 billion.
The level of funding necessary to provide Pre-retirement and Retiring which alone hold c900 billion.
retirement income is increasing, driven by longer life expectancies, less generous company and state pensions and ambitious Identification of relevant market segments retirement expectations.
The burden of responsibility for retirement is shifting from government and corporates to the individual.
Cost Population size Private investment pool effective advice is increasingly difficult to obtain in the post-Retail Segment 10 year growth growth trajectory Distribution Review environment.
However, with successive UK 85 0.2m 25-45bn governments tinkering with pension savings, the introduction of 35% various ISA products, persistent low interest rates, and a reduction 75-84 0.9m in the number of financial advisers, finding the right solution for 170-180bn Retired 38% your investment needs is arguably more complex than ever.
65-74 1.5m 335-355bn As a nation we need to develop a stronger culture of saving and Retiring 8% investing.
Hargreaves Lansdown is well placed with its expertise 55-64 1.6m and expanding capabilities to help existing and new clients 350-370bn Pre-retirement 18% navigate through the minefield of complexity, providing appropriate products and solutions for the young through to those at and in 35-54 1.9m 208-225bn retirement.
Hargreaves Lansdown firmly believes that government Peak savers 2% has a role to play through improving financial education, 25-34 0.5m 5-25bn addressingthe savings gap and by empowering companies like Young professionals -1% usthrough proportionate regulation to help provide the solutions and education.
2 Platforum also estimate that 24 billion is held directly with fund managers.
Again this can provide a source of transfers in to Vantage or an opportunity to acquire the entire direct back books from fund management groups.
In previous years, acquisitions have been made from Jupiter, JPMorgan, Legg Mason and, more recently, in Julywe announced a deal to acquire up to 90 million and 4,300 clients from BlackRock.
We will continue to pursue similar deals astheyarise.
1 Source: Mind the Gap Aviva and Deloitte, September 2016.
2 Source: Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2017.
08 Hargreaves Lansdown Report and Financial Statements 2017
