Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Governance Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for The directors are responsible for We consider the Annual report and preparing the Annual report and the keeping adequate accounting records financial statements, taken as a whole, group and the company financial that are sufficient to show and explain is fair, balanced and understandable statements in accordance with the Companys transactions and and provides the information necessary applicable law and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy for shareholders to assess the Groups at any time the financial position position and performance, business Company law requires the Directors of the Group and the Company: model and strategy.
to prepare group and company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements for each financial Signed on behalf of the Board.
financial statements comply with the year.
Under that law the directors Companies Act 2006.
They are also have prepared the group financial responsible for taking such steps statements in accordance with as are reasonably open to them to International Financial Reporting safeguard the assets of the Group and Standards IFRSs as adopted by Allen Roberts the Company to prevent and detect the European Union EU and have Group Finance Director fraud and other irregularities.
prepared the company financial 27th July 2017 Under applicable law and regulations, statements in accordance with UK the directors are also responsible for Accounting Standards, including FRS preparing a strategic report, directors 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
report, directors remuneration report Under company law the directors must and corporate governance statement not approve the financial statements that complies with that law and unless they are satisfied that they give a those regulations.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of The directors are responsible for their profit or loss for that period.
the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information In preparing each of the group and included on the Companys website.
company financial statements, the Legislation in the UK governing the directors are required to: preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from select suitable accounting policies legislation in other jurisdictions.
and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting Responsibility statement of estimates that are reasonable the directors in respect of the and prudent: annual financial report for the group financial statements, We confirm that to the best of state whether they have been our knowledge: prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, subject to any the financial statements, prepared in material departures disclosed and accordance with the applicable set explained in the financial statements: of accounting standards, give a true for the company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements, state whether applicable financial position and profit or loss of UK Accounting Standards have been the Group and of the Company and followed, subject to any material the undertakings: and departures disclosed and explained the Strategic report and the in the company financial statements: Directors report include a fair review and of the development and performance prepare the financial statements on of the business during the year and the going concern basis unless it is the position of the Company and the inappropriate to presume that the Group at the year end, together with group and the company will continue a description of the principal risks in business.
and uncertainties that they face.
