Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 This section describes the basis of preparation of the Accounting consolidated financial statements and the groups information accounting policies that are applicable to the financial andpolicies statements as a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
Introduction This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
Accounting information and policies Assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates.
Exchange a Basis of preparation differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to for use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of of the transaction.
The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses of financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2017, during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: 2017 2016 2015 b Going concern The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going US dollar concern basis.
i Income statement and cash flows 1.27 1.48 1.57 ii Assets and liabilities 1.30 1.33 1.57 c Consolidation Euro The consolidated financial statements include the results of the i Income statement and cash flows 1.16 1.34 1.31 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable ii Assets and liabilities 1.14 1.20 1.41 share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by Diageo plc.
The group controls an investee when i Weighted average rates.
it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of its power over the investee.
Where the group has the ability to exchange rate movements.
For further information see note 15. exercise joint control over an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is included on the basis of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
d Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
