142 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information 19.
Commitments g SEC Inquiry Diageo has received requests for information from the US Securities a Capital commitments and Exchange Commission SEC regarding its distribution in and Commitments for expenditure on intangibles and property, plant public disclosures regarding the United States and its distribution in and equipment not provided for in these consolidated financial statements are estimated at 84 million 2016 87 million: 2015 certain other Diageo markets as well as additional context about the Diageo group globally.
Diageo is currently responding to the SECs 114 million.
requests for information in this matter.
Diageo is unable to assess if On 21 June 2017 Diageo agreed to purchase Casamigos Tequila the inquiry will evolve into further information requests or an LLC Casamigos for a consideration of $1,000 million 768 million of which $300 million 230 million is contingent on Casamigos enforcement action or, if this were to transpire, to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, to which any performance linked targets being met over the next ten years.
such action might give rise.
The acquisition is dependent on regulatory approval.
h Tax b Operating lease commitments The minimum lease rentals to be paid under non-cancellable leases, During the year ended 30 June 2017 Diageo entered into a process of collaborative working with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC, the principally in respect of properties, are as follows: UK tax authority, to seek clarity on its transfer pricing and related 2017 2016 issues.
Further to the announcement million million by Diageo on 10 May 2017, HMRC has issued on 2 June 2017 Payments falling due: preliminary notices of assessment under the new Diverted Profits Within one year 95 92 Tax regime which came into effect in April 2015.
Under these notices, Between one and two years 72 94 Diageo is required to pay additional tax and interest of 107 million Between two and three years 52 81 in aggregate for the financial years ended 30 June 2015 and Between three and four years 40 70 30 June 2016.
Diageo does not believe that it falls within the scope Between four and five years 28 63 of the Diverted Profits Tax regime.
Accordingly, Diageo intends to After five years 51 407 challenge the assessments and in order to do so will have to pay in 338 807 August 2017 the full amount assessed and then continue to work to resolve this matter with HMRC.
The payment of this amount is not a reflection of Diageos view on the merits of the case and, based On 1 January 2016 Diageo completed the North American wines on its current assessment, Diageo believes no provision is required transaction with Treasury Wine Estates TWE.
As part of this in relation to Diverted Profits Tax.
transaction Diageo sub-let the North American vineyards to TWE.
Diageo has also been in discussions with the French Tax The terms of the sub lease to TWE were identical to the principal Authorities over the deductibility of certain interest costs for periods lease with Realty Income Corporation Realty and as at 30 June 2016 from 1 July 2011.
It is understood that the French Tax Authorities are the future lease commitments to Realty were included in finance intending to deny tax relief for certain interest costs.
Diageo believes lease liabilities and other receivables amounting to $47 million that the interest costs are deductible and accordingly intends to 36 million and operating lease liabilities of $541 million challenge any such assessment from the French Tax Authorities.
At 407 million were reported in operating lease commitments.
this stage of discussions Diageo is unable to meaningfully estimate In the year ended 30 June 2017 Diageo exited the sublease the financial effect, if any, which might ultimately arise.
Based on its arrangement and the finance and operating leases for the vineyards current assessment, Diageo believes that no provision is required in were directly between TWE and Realty.
There are no significant leases for which contingent rent is payable, i Other nor any that have purchase options, escalation clauses or restrictions.
The group has extensive international operations and is a defendant Certain of the operating leases have renewal clauses which are at fair in a number of legal, customs and tax proceedings incidental to market value.
these operations, the outcome of which cannot at present be foreseen.
In particular, the group is currently a defendant in various customs proceedings that challenge the declared customs value of products imported by certain Diageo companies.
Diageo continues to defend its position vigorously in these proceedings.
Save as disclosed above, neither Diageo, nor any member of the Diageo group, is or has been engaged in, nor so far as Diageo is aware is there pending or threatened by or against it, any legal or arbitration proceedings which may have a significant effect on the financial position of the Diageo group.
