Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 This section includes additional financial information Other financial that are either required by the relevant accounting information standards or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings c Acquisition of USL shares from UBHL, winding-up petitions against UBHL and other proceedings in relation to the USL Accounting policies transaction Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or On 4 July 2013, Diageo completed its acquisition, under a share other disputes against the group where it is considered to be purchase agreement with United Breweries Holdings Limited probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made UBHL and various other sellers the SPA, of 21,767,749 shares 14.98% of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may in United Spirits Limited USL for a total consideration of INR 31.3 be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the billion 349 million, including 10,141,437 shares 6.98% from UBHL.
estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no The SPA was signed on 9 November 2012 and was part of the provision created.
transaction announced by Diageo in relation to USL on that day the Original USL Transaction.
Through a series of further Critical accounting estimates and judgements transactions, as of 2 July 2014, Diageo has a 54.78% investment Estimate and judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood in USL excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
that a claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the Prior to the acquisition from UBHL on 4 July 2013, the High Court possible range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of Karnataka High Court had granted leave to UBHL under sections in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the 536 and 537 of the Indian Companies Act 1956 the Leave Order to liability originally estimated.
enable the sale by UBHL to Diageo to take place the UBHL Share Sale notwithstanding the continued existence of five winding-up petitions that were pending against UBHL on 9 November 2012, a Guarantees and related matters being the date of the SPA.
Additional winding-up petitions have As of 30 June 2017, the group has no material unprovided guarantees been brought against UBHL since 9 November 2012, and the Leave or indemnities in respect of liabilities of third parties.
Order did not extend to them.
At the time of the completion of the UBHL Share Sale, the Leave Order remained subject to review on b Thalidomide litigation appeal.
However, as stated by Diageo at the time of closing on In June 2014, claim forms alleging product liability and negligence for 4 July 2013, it was considered unlikely that any appeal process in injuries arising from the consumption of thalidomide were filed in the respect of the Leave Order would definitively conclude on a timely High Court in London against Distillers Company Biochemicals basis and, accordingly, Diageo waived the conditionality under the Limited, its parent Diageo Scotland Limited formerly Distillers SPA relating to the absence of insolvency proceedings in relation to Company Limited, as well as against Grnenthal GmbH, the UBHL and acquired the 10,141,437 USL shares from UBHL at that time.
developer of the drug not a member of the group.
In June 2017, Following closing of the UBHL Share Sale, appeals were filed by following discussions between lawyers for the 28 claimants and various petitioners in respect of the Leave Order.
On Diageo, a settlement was reached where six claimants were admitted 20 December 2013, the division bench of the High Court set aside the as beneficiaries of the United Kingdom Thalidomide Trust and the Leave Order the 20 December Order.
Following the 20 December remaining 22 claimants agreed to discontinue their claims.
Order, Diageo filed special leave petitions SLPs in the Supreme Court Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited distributed of India against the 20 December Order.
thalidomide in the United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s On 10 February 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an order and early 1960s.
Diageo has worked voluntarily for many years with giving notice in respect of the SLPs and ordering that the status quo various thalidomide organisations and has provided significant be maintained with regard to the UBHL Share Sale pending a hearing financial support.
on the matter in the Supreme Court.
Following a number of In the year ended 30 June 2017 a charge of 55 million after tax adjournments, the next firm hearing date for the SLPs in respect of was made to discontinued operations in the income statement in which leave has since been granted and which have been converted respect of thalidomide.
to civil appeals is yet to be fixed.
