Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Operating assets and liabilities DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 123 12.
Post employment benefits Accounting policies Accounting policies Available-for-sale investments are non-derivative financial assets The groups principal pension funds are defined benefit plans.
that are either designated as such upon initial recognition or not In addition, the group has defined contribution plans, unfunded classified in any of the other financial assets categories.
They are post employment medical benefit liabilities and other unfunded included in non-current assets.
Subsequent to initial defined benefit post employment liabilities.
For post employment measurement, available-for-sale investments are stated at fair plans, other than defined contribution plans, the amount charged value.
Gains and losses arising from the changes in fair value are to operating profit is the cost of accruing pension benefits recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment promised to employees over the year, plus any changes arising is disposed of or impaired, when the accumulated gains and on benefits granted to members by the group during the year.
losses are recycled to the income statement.
Interest and Net finance charges comprise the net deficit asset on the plans dividends from available-for-sale investments are recognised at the beginning of the year, adjusted for cash flows in the year, in the consolidated income statement.
multiplied by the discount rate for plan liabilities.
The differences Loans receivable are non-derivative financial assets with fixed between the fair value of the plans assets and the present value or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active of the plans liabilities are disclosed as an asset or liability on the market.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using consolidated balance sheet.
Any differences due to changes the effective interest method less allowance for impairment.
in assumptions or experience are recognised in other Allowances are made where there is evidence of a risk of comprehensive income.
The amount of any pension fund asset non-payment taking into account ageing, previous experience recognised on the balance sheet is limited to any future refunds and general economic conditions.
from the plan or the present value of reductions in future contributions to the plan.
Contributions payable by the group in respect of defined Loans Others Total million million million contribution plans are charged to operating profit as incurred.
Cost less allowances or fair value Critical accounting estimates and judgements At 30 June 2015 23 86 109 Application of IAS 19 requires the exercise of estimate and Exchange differences 2 2 4 judgement in relation to various assumptions including future Additions 95 95 pay rises, inflation and discount rates and employee and Repayments and disposals 4 89 93 pensioner demographics.
Fair value adjustment 9 9 Diageo determines the assumptions on a country by country Provision charged during the year 93 93 basis in conjunction with its actuaries, and believes these At 30 June 2016 23 8 31 assumptions to be in line with best practice, but the application Exchange differences 1 1 of different assumptions could have a significant effect on the Additions 2 2 amounts reflected in the income statement, other comprehensive Repayments and disposals 5 5 income and balance sheet.
There may be also interdependency between some of the assumptions.
Fair value adjustment 2 2 At 30 June 2017 21 10 31 a Post employment benefit plans The group operates a number of pension plans throughout the At 30 June 2017, loans comprise 18 million 2016 21 million: 2015 world, devised in accordance with local conditions and practices.
21 million of loans to customers and other third parties, after The majority of the plans are defined benefit plans and are funded allowances of 110 million 2016 98 million: 2015 7 million, and by payments to separately administered trusts or insurance 3 million 2016 2 million: 2015 2 million of loans to associates.
The group also operates a number of plans that are generally unfunded, primarily in the United States, which provide Loans include a loan of $135 million 104 million provided by employees post employment medical costs.
Standard Chartered Bank SCB to Watson Limited and guaranteed The principal plans are in the United Kingdom, Ireland and the by a subsidiary of the group.
The loan became due in May 2015 and United States where benefits are based on employees length of was paid to SCB by Diageo in January 2016.
The amount receivable service and salary at retirement.
All valuations were performed in respect of the guarantee has been fully provided for.
by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method to determine pension costs.
The most recent valuations of the significant defined benefit plans were carried out as follows: Principal plans Date of valuation i United Kingdom 1 April 2015 ii Ireland 31 December 2015 United States 1 January 2017 i T he Diageo Pension Scheme the UK Scheme closed to new members in November 2005.
Employees who have joined Diageo in the United Kingdom since the defined benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of the Diageo Lifestyle Plan a cash balance defined benefit pension plan.
In 30 June 2017 it was communicated to the current members of the Diageo Pension Scheme that there would be changes to the future benefits earnt by employees from 1 April 2018.
The change would impact the service cost for the year ending 30 June 2018 but not the benefits earnt by the members as at 30 June 2017. ii T he Guinness Ireland Group Pension Scheme in Ireland the Irish Scheme closed to new members in May 2013.
Employees who have joined Diageo in Ireland since the defined benefit scheme closed have been eligible to become members of Diageo administered defined contribution plans.
