Financial statements Financial statements of the company: Notes to the company financial statements of Diageo plc DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 147 Pensions and other post employment benefits Notes to the company The companys accounting policy for post employment benefits is the same as set out in note 13 to the consolidated financial financial statements statements.
The company acts as sponsor of all UK post employment plans of Diageo plc for the benefit of employees and former employees throughout the group.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit costs for the plan as a whole measured in accordance with FRS 101 to other companies whose 1.
Accounting policies of the company employees participate in these group wide plans.
Recharges to other Basis of preparation group companies are made on a funding basis only and are credited The financial statements of Diageo plc the company are prepared against service costs to the extent they relate to current service.
in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Therefore the fair value of the plans assets less the present value of Disclosure Framework FRS 101. the plans liabilities are disclosed as a net asset or net liability on the In preparing these financial statements, the company applies companys balance sheet as it is deemed the legal sponsor of these the recognition, measurement, and disclosure requirements of plans.
The net income charge reflects the increase in the defined International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the benefit obligation resulting from service in the current year, benefit EU IFRS, but makes amendments where necessary in order to changes, curtailments and settlements.
Past service costs are comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has excluded certain recognised in income.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying information as permitted by FRS 101. the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and the fair value of the plan assets and is included in the income under the historical cost convention, except for certain financial statement.
Any differences due to changes in assumptions or instruments which are stated at their fair value.
experience are recognised in other comprehensive income.
By virtue of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the company is exempt from presenting a statement of income and Provisions disclosing employee numbers and staff costs.
The company has Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount.
A provision is taken advantage of the exemption under FRS 101 from preparing recognised if, as a result of a past event, the group has a present legal a cash flow statement and related notes, disclosures in respect or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is of transactions and the capital management of wholly owned probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to subsidiaries, the effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs settle the obligation.
Provisions are calculated on a discounted basis.
and disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key The carrying amounts of provisions are reviewed at each balance Management Personnel.
sheet date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
Investment in subsidiaries Taxation Investments in subsidiaries are stated at historical cost less Current tax is based on taxable profit for the year.
This requires an impairment provisions for any permanent decrease in value.
estimation of the current tax liability together with an assessment The carrying amounts of the companys investments are reviewed of the timing differences which arise as a consequence of different at each reporting date to determine whether there is an indication accounting and tax treatments.
Full provision for deferred tax is made of impairment.
If such an indication exists, then the assets for timing differences between the recognition of gains and losses recoverable amount is estimated.
Losses are recognised in the in the financial statements and their recognition in tax computations.
statement of income and reflected in an allowance against the The amount of deferred tax reflects the expected recoverable carrying value.
When a subsequent event causes the amount amount and is based on the expected manner of realisation or of impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using is reversed through the statement of income.
the basis of taxation enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
The company does not discount these balances.
Tax Dividends paid and received benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the tax positions Dividends are included in the financial statements in the financial are sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, management year in which they are approved.
Dividends received are included reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision in the financial statements in the year in which they are receivable.
should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
Share-based payments employee benefits Any interest and penalties on tax liabilities are provided for in the The companys accounting policy for share-based payments is the tax charge.
same as set out in note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Where the company grants options over its own shares to the employees of its subsidiaries, it generally recharges the cost to the relevant group company.
Where the amount is not recharged the value of the options is recognised as a capital contribution to the subsidiaries and increases the cost of investment.
