Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Results for the year DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 105 This section explains the results and performance of the Results for group for the three years ended 30 June 2017.
Disclosures theyear are provided for segmental information, operating costs, exceptional items, finance income and charges, the Introduction groups share of results of associates and joint ventures, taxation and discontinued operations.
For associates, joint ventures and taxation, balance sheet disclosures are also provided in this section.
Segmental information employee costs that are not allocable to the geographical segments or to the ISC.
They also include rents receivable and payable in Accounting policies respect of properties not used by the group in the manufacture, sale Sales comprise revenue from the sale of goods, royalties and rents or distribution of premium drinks and the results of Gleneagles Hotel receivable.
Revenue from the sale of goods includes excise and disposed on 30 June 2015. other duties which the group pays as principal but excludes Diageo uses shared services operations, including captive and duties and taxes collected on behalf of third parties, such as value outsourced centres, to deliver transaction processing activities added tax.
Sales are recognised depending upon individual for markets and operational entities.
These centres are located in customer terms at the time of despatch, delivery or when the risk Hungary, Romania, Kenya, Colombia, the Philippines and India.
Provision is made for returns where appropriate.
The captive business service centre in Budapest also performs certain Sales are stated net of price discounts, allowances for customer central finance activities, including elements of financial planning loyalty and certain promotional activities and similar items.
The costs of shared service operations Net sales are sales less excise duties.
Diageo incurs excise are recharged to the regions.
In the majority of countries excise In the year ended 30 June 2017 Diageo changed its internal duties are effectively a production tax which becomes payable reporting structure to reflect changes made to management when the product is removed from bonded premises and is not responsibilities.
As a result of this change, Lebanon, other Middle East directly related to the value of sales.
It is generally not included as countries and North African countries which were formerly reported a separate item on external invoices: increases in excise duty are in the Asia Pacific and Africa regions respectively are now included in not always passed on to the customer and where a customer fails the Europe, Russia and Turkey region.
In addition, the results of the to pay for product received the group cannot reclaim the excise Travel Retail operations have been reallocated to the geographical duty.
The group therefore recognises excise duty as a cost to regions to better reflect the region in which the sale to the customer the group.
The comparative information has not been restated as the Advertising costs, point of sale materials and sponsorship amounts involved are not material.
payments are charged to marketing in operating profit when the The segmental information for net sales and operating profit company has a right of access to the goods or services acquired.
before exceptional items is reported at budgeted exchange rates in line with management reporting.
For management reporting Diageo is an international manufacturer and distributor of premium purposes the group measures the current year at, and restates the drinks.
Diageo also owns a number of investments in associates and prior year net sales and operating profit to, the current years budgeted exchange rates.
These exchange rates are set prior to the joint ventures as set out in note 6.
The segmental information presented is consistent with financial year as part of the financial planning process and provide management reporting provided to the Executive Committee a consistent exchange rate to measure the performance of the the chief operating decision maker.
The adjustments required to retranslate the segmental information to actual exchange rates and The Executive Committee considers the business principally from a geographical perspective based on the location of third party sales to reconcile it to the groups reported results are shown in the and the business analysis is presented by geographical segment.
The comparative segmental information, prior to addition to these geographical selling segments, a further segment retranslation, has not been restated at the current years budgeted exchange rates but is presented at the budgeted rates for the reviewed by the Executive Committee is the International Supply Centre ISC, which manufactures products for other group respective years.
companies and includes the production sites in the United Kingdom, In addition, for management reporting purposes Diageo presents Ireland, Italy and Guatemala.
separately the results of acquisitions and disposals completed in the current and prior year from the results of the geographical segments.
Continuing operations also include the Corporate function.
Corporate revenues and costs are in respect of central costs, The impact of acquisitions and disposals on net sales and operating including finance, marketing, corporate relations, human resources profit is disclosed under the appropriate geographical segments in and legal, as well as certain information systems, facilities and the following tables at budgeted exchange rates.
