116 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Operating assets and liabilities This section describes the assets used to generate the groups Operating performance and the liabilities incurred.
Liabilities relating assets and to the groups financing activities are included in section liabilities Risk management and capital structure and balance sheet information in respect of associates, joint ventures and taxation are covered in section Results for the year.
This section also Introduction provides detailed disclosures on the groups recent acquisitions and disposals, performance and financial position of its defined benefit post employment plans.
Acquisition and sale of businesses and purchase of non-controlling interests Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements include the results of the company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the income statement from, or up to, the date that control passes.
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are measured at fair value at acquisition date.
The consideration payable is measured at fair value and includes the fair value of any contingent consideration.
On the acquisition of a business, or of an interest in an associate or joint venture, fair values, reflecting conditions at the date of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets including identifiable intangible assets and contingent liabilities acquired.
Directly attributable acquisition costs in respect of subsidiary companies acquired are recognised in other external charges as incurred.
The non-controlling interests on the date of acquisition can be measured either at the fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets assumed.
This choice is made separately for each acquisition.
Where the group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the group derecognises the non-controlling interests and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the noncontrolling interest on the exercise of those options.
Movements in the estimated liability in respect of put options are recognised in retained earnings.
Transactions with non-controlling interests are recorded directly in retained earnings.
For all entities in which the company, directly or indirectly, owns equity a judgement is made to determine whether the investor controls the investee and therefore should fully consolidate the investee.
An assessment is carried out to determine whether the group has the exposure or rights to the variable returns of the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
To establish control an analysis is carried out of the substantive and protective rights that the group and the other investors hold.
This assessment is dependent on the activities and purpose of the investee and the rights of the other shareholders, such as which party controls the board, executive committee and material policies of the investee.
Determining whether the rights that the group holds are substantive requires management judgement.
Where less than 50% of the equity of an investee is held, and the group holds significantly more voting rights than any other vote holder or organised group of vote holders this may be an indicator of fide facto control.
An assessment is needed to determine all the factors relevant to the relationship with the investee to ascertain whether control has been established and whether the investee should be consolidated as a subsidiary.
Where voting power and returns from an investment are split equally between two entities then the arrangement is accounted for as a joint venture.
On an acquisition fair values are attributed to the assets and liabilities acquired.
This may involve material judgement to determine these values.
