144 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Other financial information 21.
Principal group companies The companies listed below include those which principally affect the profits and assets of the group.
The operating companies listed below may carry on the business described in the countries listed in conjunction with their subsidiaries and other group companies.
Percentage Country of Country of of equity i incorporation operation owned Business description Subsidiaries Diageo Ireland Republic of Ireland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Great Britain Limited England Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Scotland Limited Scotland Worldwide 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo Brands B. V. Netherlands Worldwide 100% Marketing and distribution of premium drinks Diageo North America, Inc. United States Worldwide 100% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks ii United Spirits Limited India India 54.78% Production, importing, marketing and distribution of premium drinks iii Diageo Capital plc Scotland United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group iii Diageo Finance plc England United Kingdom 100% Financing company for the group Diageo Investment Corporation United States United States 100% Financing company for the US group Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. Turkey Turkey 100% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks Associates iv Mot Hennessy SNC France France 34% Production, marketing and distribution of premium drinks i All percentages, unless otherwise stated, are in respect of holdings of ordinary share capital and are equivalent to the percentages of voting rights held by the group.
ii Percentage ownership excludes 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
iii Directly owned by Diageo plc.
1 Diageo Finance B. V. Netherlands is a wholly-owned finance subsidiary of the group.
As at 30 June 2017, there were no outstanding securities issued by Diageo Finance B. V. 22.
Post balance sheet event On 26 July 2017 the Board approved a share buyback programme of up to 1.5 billion for the year ending 30 June 2018.
