Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 103 This section describes the basis of preparation of the Accounting consolidated financial statements and the groups information accounting policies that are applicable to the financial andpolicies statements as a whole.
Accounting policies, critical accounting estimates and judgements that are specific to a note are included in the note to which they relate.
Introduction This section also explains new accounting standards, amendments and interpretations, that the group has adopted in the current financial year or will adopt in subsequent years.
Accounting information and policies Assets and liabilities are translated at closing rates.
Exchange a Basis of preparation differences arising on the retranslation at closing rates of the opening The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance balance sheets of overseas entities are taken to the exchange reserve, with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted as are exchange differences arising on foreign currency borrowings and financial instruments designated as net investment hedges, to for use in the European Union EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The consolidated financial the extent that they are effective.
Tax charges and credits arising on statements are prepared on a going concern basis under the such items are also taken to the exchange reserve.
Gains and losses historical cost convention, unless stated otherwise in the relevant accumulated in the exchange reserve are recycled to the income statement when the foreign operation is sold.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS differences are taken to the income statement.
Transactions in requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of of the transaction.
The principal foreign exchange rates used in the translation contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses of financial statements for the three years ended 30 June 2017, during the year.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
expressed in US dollars and euros per 1, were as follows: 2017 2016 2015 b Going concern The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going US dollar concern basis.
i Income statement and cash flows 1.27 1.48 1.57 ii Assets and liabilities 1.30 1.33 1.57 c Consolidation Euro The consolidated financial statements include the results of the i Income statement and cash flows 1.16 1.34 1.31 company and its subsidiaries together with the groups attributable ii Assets and liabilities 1.14 1.20 1.41 share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
A subsidiary is an entity controlled by Diageo plc.
The group controls an investee when i Weighted average rates.
it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through The group uses foreign exchange hedges to mitigate the effect of its power over the investee.
Where the group has the ability to exchange rate movements.
For further information see note 15. exercise joint control over an entity but has rights to specified assets and obligations for liabilities of that entity, the entity is included on the basis of the groups rights over those assets and liabilities.
d Foreign currencies Items included in the financial statements of the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which each entity operates its functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.
The income statements and cash flows of non-sterling entities are translated into sterling at weighted average rates of exchange, other than substantial transactions that are translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation to closing rates are taken to the exchange reserve.
104 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial statements of the group: Accounting information and policies IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers is based on the e Critical accounting estimates and judgements The critical accounting policies, which the directors consider are principle that revenue is recognised when control of goods or of greater complexity and or particularly subject to the exercise services is transferred to the customer and provides a single, of judgements, are set out in detail in the relevant notes: principles based five-step model to be applied to all sales contracts.
It replaces the separate models for goods, services and construction Exceptional items page 109 contracts under current IFRS.
It also provides further guidance on the Taxation page 113 measurement of sales on contracts which have discounts, rebates Brands, goodwill and other intangibles page 119 and consignment inventories.
Post employment benefits page 123 During the year the group carried out a detailed review of the current recognition criteria for revenue against the requirements Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings page 139 of IFRS 15.
This review in particular closely examined promotional Venezuela is a hyper-inflationary economy where the government payments made to customers post the initial sale, the recognition maintains a regime of strict currency controls with multiple foreign of sales made where a third party manufactures or modifies a currency rate systems.
Access to US dollar on these exchange product on behalf of Diageo and consignment inventories.
The foreign currency denominated Differences in practice across the group were identified but the transactions and balances of the groups Venezuelan operations are impact of these changes on the 2017 and 2016 income statements translated into the local functional currency VEF at the rate they are immaterial and the impact on the balance sheet at 30 June 2017 are expected to be settled, applying the most appropriate official is not material.
Diageo will adopt, as at 1 July 2017, the modified exchange rate.
For consolidation purposes, the group converts its retrospective approach for IFRS 15 in its 2018 financial statements.
Venezuelan operations using managements estimate of the exchange rate that capital and dividend repatriations are expected Diageo will early adopt IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 in the year ending 30 June 2018. to be realised.
The consolidation exchange rate and the accounting treatment are monitored and reviewed depending on the economic The following standards, issued by the IASB that have not been and regulatory developments in the country.
endorsed by the EU have not been adopted by the group: f New accounting policies IFRS 16 Leases effective in the year ending 30 June 2020 sets out The following amendments to the accounting standards, issued the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and by the IASB or International Financial Reporting Interpretations disclosure of leases for both the lessee and the lessor.
It eliminates Committee IFRIC and endorsed by the EU, have been adopted the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases by the group from 1 July 2016 with no impact on the groups and introduces a single lessee accounting model where the lessee consolidated results, financial position or disclosures: is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all material leases Amendment to IFRS 7 Applicability of the amendments to IFRS 7 that have a term of greater than a year.
to condensed interim financial statements The group is currently considering the implications of IFRS 16 Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests which is expected to have an impact on the groups consolidated in Joint Operations results and financial position.
Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts effective in the year ending Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable 30 June 2022 is ultimately intended to replace IFRS 4.
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Based on a preliminary assessment the group believes that Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants the adoption of IFRS 17 will not have a significant impact on Amendments to IAS 19 Discount rate: Regional Market Issue its consolidated results or financial position.
Amendments to IAS 34 Disclosure of Information Elsewhere There are a number of amendments and clarifications to IFRS, in the Interim Financial Report effective in future years, which are not expected to significantly The following standards, issued by the IASB and endorsed by the EU, impact the groups consolidated results or financial position.
have not yet been adopted by the group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments replaces IAS 39 Financial instruments Recognition and measurement.
The standard covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial instruments and applies an approach where the business model of an entity and the cash flows associated with each financial asset defines the classification of the financial instrument.
IFRS 9 applies a forward-looking impairment model that will replace the currently applicable incurred loss model.
In contrast to the complex and rules based approach of IAS 39, the new hedge accounting requirements will provide an improved link to risk management and treasury operations and will be simpler to apply.
Based on the assessment carried out the group believes that the adoption of IFRS 9, as at 1 July 2017, will not have impact on its consolidated results or financial position and will not require a restatement of comparative figures in the 2018 Annual Report.
