Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Operating assets and liabilities DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 121 the risks in respect of the individual cash flows.
The group applies The table below shows the headroom at 30 June 2017 and the post-tax discount rates to post-tax cash flows as the valuation impairment charge that would be required if the assumptions in the calculated using this method closely approximates to applying calculation of their value in use were changed: pre-tax discount rates to pre-tax cash flows.
10% decrease for 5ppt 1ppt India and 20% decrease in Long term growth rate, period of growth and terminal growth rate decrease in 1ppt decrease for growth rate in The terminal growth rates applied at the end of the forecast period terminal increase in Meta in annual forecast period i Headroom growth rate discount rate cash flow 2022-2029 are the long term annual inflation rate of the country obtained from million million million million million external sources adjusted to take into account circumstances specific India 72 259 617 449 937 to the group.
For some intangible assets, management expects to ii Meta 10 53 achieve growth, driven by Diageos sales, marketing and distribution expertise, which is significantly in excess of the terminal growth rates i A s India is a developing market, where the maturity is not expected for a number of years, for the applicable countries or regions.
In these circumstances, the a specific forecast period was used until 2029.
The cumulative effect of the 5ppt reduction in the annual growth rate in the forecast period from 2022 to 2029 and the impact on the recoverable amount is calculated based on a five-year detailed plan terminal period is disclosed in the table above.
and extended by up to an additional ten years using the annual ii F or Meta the only change in the key assumptions considered reasonably possible that would growth rate of the real gross domestic product GDP of the country result in an impairment of the brand would be a 20% decrease in annual cash flow.
or region aggregated with its inflation rate, adjusted to take into account circumstances specific to the group.
In the calculation of the It remains possible that changes in assumptions could arise in excess terminal value, a maximum of the long term annual inflation rate of of those indicated in the table above.
the country is used as the terminal growth rate.
For all intangibles with an indefinite life, other than the cashFor goodwill, these assumptions are based on the cashgenerating units in the table above, management has concluded generating unit or group of units to which the goodwill is attributed.
that no reasonable possible change in the key assumptions on which For brands, they are based on a weighted average taking into it has determined the recoverable amounts would cause their account the country or countries where sales are made.
carrying values to exceed their recoverable amounts.
The pre-tax discount rates and terminal growth rates used for impairment testing are as follows: 11.
Property, plant and equipment 2017 2016 Accounting policies Pre-tax Terminal Pre-tax Terminal Land and buildings are stated at cost less accumulated discount growth discount growth rate rate rate rate depreciation.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Leaseholds are % % % % depreciated over the unexpired period of the lease.
Other North America United States 10 2 9 2 property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line Europe, Russia and Turkey basis to estimated residual values over their expected useful lives, Europe 8 2 9 2 and these values and lives are reviewed each year.
Subject to these reviews, the estimated useful lives fall within the following Turkey 16 5 16 5 ranges: buildings 10 to 50 years: within plant and equipment Africa casks and containers 15 to 50 years: other plant and equipment Africa Regional Markets 21 4 22 5 5 to 25 years: fixtures and fittings 5 to 10 years: and returnable South Africa 18 5 18 5 bottles and crates 5 to 10 years.
Latin America and Caribbean Reviews are carried out if there is an indication that assets may Brazil 15 5 18 5 be impaired, to ensure that property, plant and equipment are not Mexico 17 3 18 3 carried at above their recoverable amounts.
Asia Pacific Korea 8 2 12 3 Government grants Greater China 10 3 12 3 Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable India 14 6 14 6 assurance that the group will comply with the conditions pursuant to which they have been granted and that the grants will be received.
Government grants in respect of property, In the year ended 30 June 2016, an impairment charge in respect plant and equipment are deducted from the asset that they of the Ypica brand, the related fixed assets and goodwill allocated relate to, reducing the depreciation expense charged to the to the Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil PUB cash-generating unit of income statement.
62 million, 14 million and 42 million respectively was charged to other operating expenses.
Leases Where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards e Sensitivity to change in key assumptions of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is treated Impairment testing for the year ended 30 June 2017 has identified as a finance lease.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised the following cash-generating units as being sensitive to reasonably as assets of the group at their fair value at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in other financial liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
Lease payments are apportioned between interest expense and a reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Other leases are treated as operating leases, with payments and receipts taken to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the life of the lease.
Depreciation was not charged on 196 million 2016 203 million of land.
b At 30 June 2017, tangible fixed assets held under finance leases amounted to 250 million 2016 264 million, principally in respect of plant and equipment.
Depreciation on assets held under finance leases was 15 million 2016 19 million.
c Property, plant and equipment is net of a government grant of 142 million 2016 139 million received in prior years in respect of the construction of a rum distillery in the United States Virgin Islands.
