Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 This section includes additional financial information Other financial that are either required by the relevant accounting information standards or management considers these to be material information for shareholders.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings c Acquisition of USL shares from UBHL, winding-up petitions against UBHL and other proceedings in relation to the USL Accounting policies transaction Provision is made for the anticipated settlement costs of legal or On 4 July 2013, Diageo completed its acquisition, under a share other disputes against the group where it is considered to be purchase agreement with United Breweries Holdings Limited probable that a liability exists and a reliable estimate can be made UBHL and various other sellers the SPA, of 21,767,749 shares 14.98% of the likely outcome.
Where it is possible that a settlement may in United Spirits Limited USL for a total consideration of INR 31.3 be reached or it is not possible to make a reliable estimate of the billion 349 million, including 10,141,437 shares 6.98% from UBHL.
estimated financial effect appropriate disclosure is made but no The SPA was signed on 9 November 2012 and was part of the provision created.
transaction announced by Diageo in relation to USL on that day the Original USL Transaction.
Through a series of further Critical accounting estimates and judgements transactions, as of 2 July 2014, Diageo has a 54.78% investment Estimate and judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood in USL excluding 2.38% owned by the USL Benefit Trust.
that a claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and to quantify the Prior to the acquisition from UBHL on 4 July 2013, the High Court possible range of any settlement.
Due to the inherent uncertainty of Karnataka High Court had granted leave to UBHL under sections in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the 536 and 537 of the Indian Companies Act 1956 the Leave Order to liability originally estimated.
enable the sale by UBHL to Diageo to take place the UBHL Share Sale notwithstanding the continued existence of five winding-up petitions that were pending against UBHL on 9 November 2012, a Guarantees and related matters being the date of the SPA.
Additional winding-up petitions have As of 30 June 2017, the group has no material unprovided guarantees been brought against UBHL since 9 November 2012, and the Leave or indemnities in respect of liabilities of third parties.
Order did not extend to them.
At the time of the completion of the UBHL Share Sale, the Leave Order remained subject to review on b Thalidomide litigation appeal.
However, as stated by Diageo at the time of closing on In June 2014, claim forms alleging product liability and negligence for 4 July 2013, it was considered unlikely that any appeal process in injuries arising from the consumption of thalidomide were filed in the respect of the Leave Order would definitively conclude on a timely High Court in London against Distillers Company Biochemicals basis and, accordingly, Diageo waived the conditionality under the Limited, its parent Diageo Scotland Limited formerly Distillers SPA relating to the absence of insolvency proceedings in relation to Company Limited, as well as against Grnenthal GmbH, the UBHL and acquired the 10,141,437 USL shares from UBHL at that time.
developer of the drug not a member of the group.
In June 2017, Following closing of the UBHL Share Sale, appeals were filed by following discussions between lawyers for the 28 claimants and various petitioners in respect of the Leave Order.
On Diageo, a settlement was reached where six claimants were admitted 20 December 2013, the division bench of the High Court set aside the as beneficiaries of the United Kingdom Thalidomide Trust and the Leave Order the 20 December Order.
Following the 20 December remaining 22 claimants agreed to discontinue their claims.
Order, Diageo filed special leave petitions SLPs in the Supreme Court Distillers Company Biochemicals Limited distributed of India against the 20 December Order.
thalidomide in the United Kingdom for a period in the late 1950s On 10 February 2014, the Supreme Court of India issued an order and early 1960s.
Diageo has worked voluntarily for many years with giving notice in respect of the SLPs and ordering that the status quo various thalidomide organisations and has provided significant be maintained with regard to the UBHL Share Sale pending a hearing financial support.
on the matter in the Supreme Court.
Following a number of In the year ended 30 June 2017 a charge of 55 million after tax adjournments, the next firm hearing date for the SLPs in respect of was made to discontinued operations in the income statement in which leave has since been granted and which have been converted respect of thalidomide.
to civil appeals is yet to be fixed.
140 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Overseas Limited.
$40 million 28 million of the $75 million In separate proceedings, the High Court passed a winding-up order against UBHL on 7 February 2017.
On 4 March 2017, UBHL appealed 53 million amount was paid on signing of the 25 February against this order before a division bench of the High Court.
This Agreement with the balance being payable in equal instalments of appeal is currently pending.
$7 million 5 million a year over five years, subject to and conditional on Dr Mallyas compliance with certain terms of the agreement.
While Diageo continues to believe that the acquisition price of INR 1,440 per share paid to UBHL for the USL shares is fair and reasonable the first instalment of $7 million 5 million would have become due as regards UBHL, UBHLs shareholders and UBHLs secured and on 25 February 2017, owing to various reasons, including breaches unsecured creditors.
However, adverse results for Diageo in the of several provisions of the 25 February Agreement committed by Dr Mallya, Diageo believes that it was not liable to pay such amount, proceedings referred to above could, absent leave or relief in other proceedings, ultimately result in Diageo losing title to the 10,141,437 and is very unlikely to become liable to pay future instalments, to USL shares acquired from UBHL.
Diageo believes it would remain Dr Mallya.
Further, Diageo and other group companies have in control of USL and be able to consolidate USL as a subsidiary demanded from Dr Mallya the repayment of $40 million 28 million which was paid by Diageo on 25 February 2016, and also sought regardless of the outcome of this litigation.
There can be no certainty as to the outcome of the existing or any further related compensation from him for various losses incurred by the relevant legal proceedings or the timeframe within which they would members of the Diageo group on account of the breaches be concluded.
As previously announced by USL, the Initial Inquiry identified Diageo also has the benefit of certain contractual undertakings and commitments from the relevant sellers in relation to potential certain additional parties and matters indicating the possible challenges to its unencumbered title to the USL shares acquired existence of other improper transactions.
These transactions could on 4 July 2013, including relating to the winding-up petitions not be fully analysed during the Initial Inquiry and, accordingly, USL, as previously announced, mandated that its Managing Director and described above and or certain losses and costs that may be incurred in the event of third party actions relating to the acquisition of the Chief Executive Officer conduct a further inquiry into the transactions USL shares.
involving the additional parties and the additional matters to determine whether they also suffered from improprieties the d Continuing matters relating to the resignation of Dr Vijay Additional Inquiry.
USL announced the results of the Additional Mallya from USL and USL internal inquiries Inquiry in a notice to the Indian Stock Exchange dated 9 July 2016.
On 25 February 2016, Diageo and USL each announced that they As stated in that announcement, the Additional Inquiry revealed: had entered into arrangements with Dr Mallya under which he had a further instances of actual or potential fund diversions amounting agreed to resign from his position as a director and as chairman of to approximately INR 9,135 million 102 million as well as other USL and from his positions in USLs subsidiaries.
As specified by potentially improper transactions involving USL and its Indian and Diageo in its announcement at that time, these arrangements ended overseas subsidiaries amounting to approximately INR 3,118 million its prior agreement with Dr Mallya regarding his position at USL, 35 million : b that these transactions occurred during the period therefore bringing to an end the uncertainty relating to the from October 2010 to July 2014, although certain transactions appear governance of USL, and put in place a five-year global non-compete to have been initiated prior to that period: and c that these excluding the United Kingdom, non-interference, non-solicitation improper transactions involved the diversion of funds to certain and standstill arrangement with Dr Mallya.
As part of those non-Indian entities in which Dr Mallya appears to have a material arrangements, USL, Diageo and Dr Mallya agreed a mutual release direct or indirect interest including Force India Formula One, Watson in relation to matters arising out of an inquiry into certain matters Limited, Continental Administrative Services, Modall Securities referred to in USLs financial statements and the qualified auditors Limited, Ultra Dynamix Limited and Lombard Wall Corporate Services report for the year ended 31 March 2014 the Initial Inquiry which Inc as well as certain Indian entities including, in the majority of had revealed, among other things, certain diversions of USL funds.
Dr Mallya also agreed not to pursue any claims against Diageo, USL The USL board has, in light of these findings, and based on expert and their affiliates including under the prior agreement with Diageo.
advice, directed that copies of the Additional Inquiry report be In evaluating entering into such arrangements, Diageo considered provided to the relevant authorities and its auditors, in the same way the impact of the arrangements on USL and all of USLs shareholders, as the Initial Inquiry report had been.
The USL board also directed and came to the view that the arrangements were in the best that USL should conduct a detailed review of each indicated case interests of USL and its shareholders.
of fund diversion to assess its legal position and then take such action Diageos agreement with Dr Mallya the 25 February Agreement as is necessary to recover its funds from the relevant parties and provided for a payment of $75 million 53 million to Dr Mallya over individuals, to the extent possible.
In connection with the matters a five year period in consideration for the five-year global identified by the Additional Inquiry, USL has, pursuant to a detailed non-compete, non-interference, non-solicitation and standstill review of each case of such fund diversion and after obtaining expert commitments referred to above, his resignation from USL and the legal advice, where appropriate, filed civil suits for recovery of funds termination of his USL-related appointment and governance rights, from certain parties, including Dr Mallya, before the relevant courts.
the relinquishing of rights and benefits attached to his position at The mutual release in relation to the Initial Inquiry agreed by Diageo USL, and his agreement not to pursue claims against Diageo and USL.
and USL with Dr Mallya announced on 25 February 2016 does not The 25 February Agreement also provided for the release of extend to matters arising out of the Additional Inquiry.
Dr Mallyas personal obligations to indemnify i Diageo Holdings The amounts identified in the Additional Inquiry have been Netherlands B. V. in respect of its earlier liability $141 million previously provided for or expensed in the financial statements of 96 million under a backstop guarantee of certain borrowings USL or its subsidiaries for prior periods.
Further, at this stage, it is not of Watson Limited Watson a company affiliated with Dr Mallya, possible for the management of USL to estimate the financial impact and ii Diageo Finance plc in respect of its earlier liability 30 million on USL, if any, arising out of potential non-compliance with under a guarantee of certain borrowings of United Breweries applicable laws in relation to such fund diversions.
Financial statements Financial statements of the group: Other financial information DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 141 referred to in paragraph d above that DHN is entitled to the benefit e Other continuing matters relating to Dr Mallya and affiliates Diageo Holdings Netherlands B. V. DHN issued a conditional of the security package underlying the Standard Chartered facility backstop guarantee on 2 August 2013 to Standard Chartered Bank and have also undertaken to take all necessary actions in that regard.
Standard Chartered pursuant to a guarantee commitment Further, Diageo believes that the existence of any prior rights or disputes in relation to the security package would be in breach agreement the Guarantee Agreement.
The guarantee was in respect of the liabilities of Watson, a company affiliated with Dr Mallya, under of certain confirmations given to Diageo and DHN pursuant to that a $135 million 92 million facility from Standard Chartered.
The agreement by Dr Mallya, Watson and certain connected persons.
Guarantee Agreement was entered into as part of the arrangements f Regulatory notices in relation to USL put in place and announced at the closing of the USL transaction on Following USLs earlier updates concerning the Initial Inquiry as well 4 July 2013. as in relation to the arrangements with Dr Mallya that were the DHNs provision of the Guarantee Agreement enabled the subject of the 25 February 2016 announcement, USL and Diageo refinancing of certain existing borrowings of Watson from a third have received various notices from Indian regulatory authorities, party bank and facilitated the release by that bank of rights over including the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Serious Fraud certain USL shares that were to be acquired by Diageo as part of the Investigation Office, National Stock Exchange, Income Tax USL transaction.
The facility matured and entered into default in Department, Enforcement Directorate, Securities and Exchange May 2015.
In aggregate DHN paid Standard Chartered $141 million Board of India SEBI, Bangalore police, Central Excise Intelligence and 96 million under this guarantee, i. e. including payments of default the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
Diageo and USL are interest and various fees and expenses.
cooperating fully with the authorities in relation to these matters, Watson remains liable for all amounts paid by DHN under the and, as noted in paragraph d above, USL itself reported the matters guarantee.
Under the guarantee documentation with Standard covered by the Initial Inquiry and the Additional Inquiry to the Chartered, DHN was entitled to the benefit of the underlying security relevant authorities.
package for the loan, including: a certain shares in United Breweries Diageo and USL have also received notices from SEBI requesting Limited UBL held solely by Dr Mallya and certain other shares in UBL information in relation to, and explanation of the reasons for, the held by Dr Mallya jointly with his son Sidhartha Mallya, b Watsons arrangements with Dr Mallya that were the subject of the interest in Orange India Holdings S. a. r. l. Orange, the joint venture 25 February 2016 announcement as well as, in the case of USL, in that owns the Force India Formula One F1 team, and c the relation to the Initial Inquiry and the Additional Inquiry, and, in the shareholding in Watson.
case of Diageo, whether such arrangements with Dr Mallya or the Aspects of the security package are the subject of various Watson backstop guarantee arrangements referred to in paragraphs proceedings in India in which third parties are alleging and asserting d and e above were part of agreements previously made with prior rights to certain assets comprised in the package or otherwise Dr Mallya at the time of the Original USL Transaction announced seeking to restrain enforcement against certain assets by Standard on 9 November 2012 and the open offer made as part of the Original Chartered and or DHN.
These proceedings are ongoing and DHN will USL Transaction.
Diageo and USL have complied with such continue to vigorously pursue these matters as part of its efforts for information requests and Diageo has confirmed that, consistent with enforcement of the underlying security and recovery of outstanding prior disclosures, the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements and amounts.
Diageo believes that the existence of any prior rights or the matters described in the 25 February 2016 announcement were dispute in relation to the security would be in breach of not the subject of any earlier agreement with Dr Mallya.
In respect of representations and warranties given by Dr Mallya to Standard the Watson backstop guarantee arrangements, SEBI issued a further Chartered at the time the security was granted and further believes notice to Diageo on 16 June 2016 that if there is any net liability that certain actions taken by Dr Mallya in relation to the proceedings incurred by Diageo after any recovery under relevant security or described above also breached his obligations to Standard Chartered.
other arrangements, which matters remain pending on account Under the terms of the guarantee and as a matter of law, there are of the Watson backstop guarantee, such liability, if any, would be arrangements to pass on to DHN the benefit of the security package considered to be part of the price paid for the acquisition of USL upon payment under the guarantee of all amounts owed to Standard shares under the SPA which formed part of the Original USL Chartered.
Payment under the guarantee has now occurred as Transaction and that, in that case, additional equivalent payments described above.
To the extent possible in the context of the would be required to be made to those shareholders representing proceedings described above, Standard Chartered has taken certain 0.04% of the shares in USL who tendered in the open offer made as recovery steps and is working with DHN in relation to these part of the Original USL Transaction.
Diageo is clear that the Watson proceedings.
DHN is actively monitoring the security package and is backstop guarantee arrangements were not part of the price paid discussing with Standard Chartered steps to continue enforcement or agreed to be paid for any USL shares under the Original USL against the background of the proceedings described above, as well Transaction and therefore believes the decision in the SEBI notice as enforcement steps in relation to elements of the security package to be misconceived and wrong in law and has appealed against it that are unaffected by those proceedings.
DHNs ability to assume or before the Securities Appellate Tribunal, Mumbai SAT on enforce security over some elements of the security package is also 29 July 2016.
The matter was last mentioned before SAT on 3 April subject to regulatory consent.
It is not at this stage possible to 2017, and is next posted for 7 August 2017. determine whether such consent would be forthcoming.
Diageo has also responded to a show cause notice dated 12 May The agreement with Dr Mallya referenced in paragraph d above 2017 from SEBI arising out of the correspondence in relation to the does not impact the security package, which, as described above, matters described in the 25 February 2016 announcement.
includes shares in UBL and Watsons interest in Orange, the joint Diageo is unable to assess if the notices or enquiries referred to venture that owns the Force India F1 team.
Watson remains liable for above will result in enforcement action or, if this were to transpire, all amounts paid pursuant to the guarantee and DHN has the benefit to quantify meaningfully the possible loss or range of loss, if any, of a counter-indemnity from Watson in respect of payments in to which any such action might give rise if determined against connection with the guarantee.
The various security providers, Diageo or USL.
including Dr Mallya and Watson, acknowledged in the agreement
