Additional information for shareholders Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 157 requirement in respect of directors.
Directors may also be removed Additional information before the expiration of their term of office in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts.
forshareholders Voting rights Related party transactions Voting on any resolution at any general meeting of the company Transactions with other related parties are disclosed in note 20 to the is by a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a show consolidated financial statements.
of hands, a every shareholder who is present in person at a general meeting, and every proxy appointed by any one shareholder and Share capital present at a general meeting, has have one vote regardless of the Major shareholders number of shares held by the shareholder or, subject to b, At 13 July 2017, the following substantial interests 3% or more in the represented by the proxy, and b every proxy present at a general meeting who has been appointed by more than one shareholder companys ordinary share capital voting securities had been notified to the company.
has one vote regardless of the number of shareholders who have appointed him or the number of shares held by those shareholders, Percentage of issued unless he has been instructed to vote for a resolution by one or more ordinary share shareholders and to vote against the resolution by one or more capital Number of excluding Date of shareholders, in which case he has one vote for and one vote against ordinary treasury notification the resolution.
Shareholder shares shares of interest On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy BlackRock Investment has one vote for every share held by that shareholder, but a 3 December Management UK Limited shareholder or proxy entitled to more than one vote need not cast all indirect holding 147,296,928 5.89% 2009 his votes or cast them all in the same way the deadline for exercising Capital Research and Management Company voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
indirect holding 124,653,096 4.99% 28 April 2009 A poll may be demanded by any of the following: The company has not been notified of any other substantial interests the chairman of the general meeting: in its securities.
The companys substantial shareholders do not have at least three shareholders entitled to vote on the relevant different voting rights.
Diageo, so far as is known by the company, is resolution and present in person or by proxy at the meeting: not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy or by any government.
Diageo knows of no arrangements, the and representing in the aggregate not less than one-tenth of operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change of the total voting rights of all shareholders entitled to vote on the control of the company.
relevant resolution: or Articles of association any shareholder or shareholders present in person or by proxy The company is incorporated under the name Diageo plc, and is and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the relevant registered in England and Wales under registered number 23307. resolution on which there have been paid up sums in the The following description summarises certain provisions of aggregate equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum Diageos articles of association as adopted by special resolution paid up on all the shares conferring that right.
at the Annual General Meeting on 14 October 2009 and applicable Diageos articles of association and the Companies Acts provide English law concerning companies the Companies Acts, in each for matters to be transacted at general meetings of Diageo by the case as at 13 July 2017.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: reference to the Companies Acts and Diageos articles of association.
ordinary resolutions, which include resolutions for the election, Investors can obtain copies of Diageos articles of association re-election and removal of directors, the declaration of final by contacting the Company Secretary at the.
dividends, the appointment and re-appointment of the external Any amendment to the articles of association of the company auditor, the remuneration report and remuneration policy, the may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies increase of authorised share capital and the grant of authority Act 2006, by way of special resolution.
to allot shares: and Directors special resolutions, which include resolutions for the amendment Diageos articles of association provide for a board of directors, of Diageos articles of association, resolutions relating to the consisting unless otherwise determined by an ordinary resolution disapplication of pre-emption rights, and resolutions modifying of shareholders of not fewer than three directors and not more than the rights of any class of Diageos shares at a meeting of the 25 directors, in which all powers to manage the business and affairs holders of such class.
Directors may be elected by the members An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple in a general meeting or appointed by Diageos Board.
At each annual majority of the votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting general meeting, the following are required to retire and are then at which there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions reconsidered for election re-election, assuming they wish to stand require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the for election re-election: any director who has been appointed by votes cast by those entitled to vote at a meeting at which there is a Diageos Board since the last annual general meeting: any director quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting who has been in office during the two previous general meetings of Diageo is a minimum of two shareholders present in person or and did not retire at either of them: and any director who has been by proxy and entitled to vote.
in office, other than in an executive position, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting.
There is no age limit 158 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Additional information for shareholders Documents on display A shareholder is not entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any share held by him if he has been served The Annual Report on Form 20-F and any other documents filed with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association by the company with the US Securities Exchange Commission SEC after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests may be inspected at the SECs office of Investor Education and Advocacy located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Please in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public Pre-emption rights and new issues of shares reference rooms and their copy charges.
Filings with the SEC are also While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under available to the public from commerical document retrieval services, and from the website maintained by the US Securities and Exchange Diageos articles of association, the ability of the directors to cause Diageo to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights to Commission at www.
shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, Warning to shareholders share fraud Please beware of the share fraud of boiler room scams, where with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys shareholders are called out of the blue by fraudsters sometimes articles of association or given by its shareholders in a general claiming to represent Diageo attempting to obtain money or meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more than five property dishonestly.
Further information is available in the investor section of the companys website www.
Under the Companies Acts, Diageo may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme if in doubt, take proper professional advice before making any without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such investment decision.
shares to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion External limited assurance of selected Sustainability & to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Responsibility performance data We engaged PwC LLP to perform an independent limited assurance Repurchase of shares engagement, reporting to the Board of Directors of Diageo plc, over selected Sustainability & Responsibility S&R performance data Subject to authorisation by special resolution, Diageo may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares marked with the symbol within the Strategic Report of the Annual which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, Report 2017, and the S&R Performance Addendum to the Annual if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion Report 2017.
PwC LLP engagement was performed in accordance of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Diageos issued with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 share capital.
Revised Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information and, in respect of the greenhouse Restrictions on transfers of shares gas emissions, in accordance with International Standard on The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated Diageo Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements on share unless the instrument of transfer a is duly stamped or certified greenhouse gas statements, issued by the International Auditing or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt and Assurance Standards Board.
from stamp duty, and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the PwC LLPs full assurance opinion is available in the S&R Performance Board may reasonably require, b is in respect of only one class Addendum to the Annual Report 2017, available at www.
of share and c if to joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
A summary of the work they performed is included in their assurance Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused opinion.
It is important to read the selected S&R performance data in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules contained within this report in the context of PwC LLPs full limited as defined in Diageos articles of association and where, in the case assurance opinion and our reporting methodologies.
Our reporting of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom methodologies are included in the S&R Performance Addendum to the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
the Annual Report, available at www.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of Diageos certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in Diageos articles of association if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Diageos articles of association after failure to provide Diageo with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in Diageos articles of association.
