Shareholder Information Communicating with Shareholders Trust Magazine Suggestions and Questions Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can published twice a year.
It provides an insight to our investment be improved are welcome.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client approach by including interviews with our fund managers, as well Relations Team see contact details in the Further Information as containing investment trust news, investment features and box on the back cover and give them your suggestions.
They will articles about the trusts managed by Baillie Gifford, including also be very happy to answer questions that you may have, either Monks.
Trust plays an important role in helping to explain our about Monks or the plans described on page 54. products so that readers can really understand them.
For a copy of Literature in Alternative Formats Trust, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see It is possible to provide copies of the literature in alternative contact details in the Further Information box on the back cover.
formats, such as large print or on audio tape.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team for more information.
An online version of Trust can be found at www.
Client Relations Team Contact Details You can contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team by telephone your call may be recorded for training or monitoring Monks on the Web purposes, email, fax or post.
See contact details in the Further Up-to-date information about Monks can be found on the Information box on the back cover.
Companys page of the Managers website at www.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give In the Investment Trust section you will find full monthly details on financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any Monks, including recent portfolio information and performance questions about the suitability of any of these plans for figures.
you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
Automatic Exchange of Information In order to fulfil its obligations under UK tax legislation relating to Shareholders, excluding those whose shares are held in CREST, the automatic exchange of information, the Company is required who come on to the share register with effect from 1 January to collect and report certain information about certain 2016 will be sent a certification form for the purposes of collecting shareholders.
The legislation requires investment trust companies to provide For further information, please see HMRCs Quick Guide: personal information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase Automatic Exchange of Information information for account shares in investment trusts.
Accordingly, the Company will have to holders https: www.
uk government publications provide information annually to the local tax authority on the tax .
residencies of a number of non-UK based certificated shareholders and corporate entities.
Third Party Data Provider Disclaimer No third party data provider Provider makes any warranty, recommendations, forecasts, judgments, or any other express or implied, as to the accuracy, completeness or conclusions, or any course of action determined, by you or any timeliness of the data contained herewith nor as to the results to third party, whether or not based on the content, information or be obtained by recipients of the data.
No Provider shall in any way be liable to any recipient of the data FTSE Index Data for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions in the index data included FTSE International Limited FTSE FTSE 2017.
FTSE is a in this document, regardless of cause, or for any damages trade mark of the London Stock Exchange Group companies and whether direct or indirect resulting therefrom.
No Provider has is used by FTSE International Limited under licence.
All rights in any obligation to update, modify or amend the data or to the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings vest in FTSE and or its otherwise notify a recipient thereof in the event that any matter licensors.
Neither FTSE nor its licensors accept any liability for any stated herein changes or subsequently becomes inaccurate.
errors or omissions in the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings or Without limiting the foregoing, no Provider shall have any liability underlying data and no party may rely on any FTSE indices, ratings whatsoever to you, whether in contract including under an and or data underlying data contained in this communication.
No indemnity, in tort including negligence, under a warranty, under further distribution of FTSE Data is permitted without FTSEs statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by express written consent.
FTSE does not promote, sponsor or you as a result of or in connection with any opinions, endorse the content of this communication.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 55
