Shareholder Information Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Monks Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of switch between investment trusts, except where there is more plans that enable you to buy and hold shares in Monks costthan one holder: and efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally subject to a dealing update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone price spread and Government stamp duty of 0.5% is payable on number.
Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan trust application form must be completed.
Certain restrictions No initial charge apply where there is more than one holder.
No annual wrapper charge Further information Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker If you would like more information on any of the plans described, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team.
See contact Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 details in the Further Information box on the back cover.
No maximum investment limits Risks Stop and start saving at any time with no charge Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Monks is a listed UK Company.
The value of its shares and any A withdrawal charge of just 22 income from them can fall as well as rise and investors may not get back the amount invested.
The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA As Monks invests in overseas securities, changes in the rates of Tax-efficient investment exchange may also cause the value of your investment and any No set-up charge income it may pay to go down or up.
Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade Lump sum investment from 2,000 up to a maximum of may not be readily available, and there can be no assurance that 20,000 each tax year any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price Monks might receive upon their sale.
Invest monthly from 100 Monks invests in emerging markets where difficulties in dealing, A withdrawal charge of just 22 settlement and custody could arise, resulting in a negative impact ISA Transfers on the value of your investment.
Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Monks invests in corporate bonds which are generally perceived Baillie Gifford ISA to carry a greater possibility of capital loss than investment in, for Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment example, higher rated UK government bonds.
Bonds issued by companies and governments may be adversely affected by Minimum transfer value 2,000 changes in interest rates and expectations of inflation.
The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan Monks has borrowed money to make further investments An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults sometimes known as gearing or leverage.
The risk is that to invest for a child when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and No initial charge interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the No annual wrapper charge Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of the amount of this loss.
Monks can buy back and cancel its own the child shares.
The risks from borrowing are increased when the Company buys back and cancels its shares.
Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly investment from just 25 Monks can make use of derivatives which may impact on its performance.
A withdrawal charge of just 22 As the aim of Monks is to achieve capital growth you should not Online Management Service expect a significant, or steady, annual income from the Company.
You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online and their value depends on your circumstances.
Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the Baillie Gifford website www.
As well as Monks is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also authorised or regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
allows you to: Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles obtain current valuations: are contained in the product brochures.
Further details of the risks associated with investing in the Company, including how charges make lump sum investments, except where there is more than are applied, can be found at www.
co. uk, one holder: or by calling Baillie Gifford on 0800 917 2112.
This information has sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more been issued and approved by Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, the than one holder: Managers and Secretaries, and does not in any way constitute investment advice.
