A400 Whitehall Regent Street Haymarket St. Jamess Street Piccadilly Circus Trafalgar Square Charing Cross Shareholder Information Notice of Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on Wednesday, 2 August 2017, at 11.00 am.
If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the meeting, please call us on 0800 917 2112.
Baillie Gifford may record your call.
INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS Notice is hereby given that the eighty-eighth Annual General into shares in the Company Securities provided that such Meeting of The Monks Investment Trust PLC will be held at the authority shall be limited to the allotment of shares and the Institute of Directors, 116 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5ED on grant of rights in respect of shares with an aggregate nominal Wednesday, 2 August 2017, at 11.00 am for the following value of up to 1,069,819 representing 10% of the purposes: Companys total issued share capital as at 23 June 2017, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual Ordinary Business General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as resolution or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of ordinary resolutions: this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in a general 1.
To receive and adopt the Financial Statements of the meeting, save that the Company may at any time prior to the Company for the year ended 30 April 2017 with the Reports expiry of this authority make an offer or enter into an of the Directors and of the Independent Auditors thereon.
agreement which would or might require Securities to be 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration policy.
allotted or granted after the expiry of such authority and the 3.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant Securities in the year ended 30 April 2017. pursuance of such an offer or agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To declare a final dividend of 1.25p per ordinary share.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass resolutions 16 and 17 as 5.
To re-elect Mr JGD Ferguson as a Director.
To re-elect Mr EM Harley as a Director.
That, subject to the passing of resolution 15 above, the 7.
To re-elect Mr DCP McDougall as a Director.
Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally 8.
To re-elect Mr KS Sternberg as a Director.
empowered, pursuant to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within 9.
To re-elect Mr JJ Tigue as a Director.
the meaning of section 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to 10.
To elect Ms BJ Richards as a Director.
the authority given by resolution 15 above and to sell treasury shares for cash as if section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to 11.
To elect Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt as a Director.
any such allotment or sale, provided that this power: 12.
To appoint Ernst & Young LLP as Independent Auditors of the a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Company to hold office from the conclusion of this meeting Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting at or on the expiry of 15 months from the passing of this which the Financial Statements are laid before the Company.
resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that the Company 13.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of may, before such expiry, make an offer or agreement the Independent Auditors.
which would or might require equity securities to be 14.
That, with effect from 1 May 2017, fees paid to Directors for allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity their services as Directors of the Company shall not exceed securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if 300,000 per annum in aggregate.
the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 15.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise of 1,069,819, representing approximately 10% of the all the powers of the Company to allot shares in the Company nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company and to grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security as at 23 June 2017.
50 Annual Report 2017 Piccadilly Pall Mall King St St James Sq Pall Mall East The Mall Strand Shareholder Information 17.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without Notes prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to date hereof, the Company be and is hereby generally and exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at unconditionally authorised, pursuant to and in accordance the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, to must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to of the Act of fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each in the exercise rights attached to different shares.
You can only capital of the Company Shares, either for retention as appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or for and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any cancellation provided that: electronic address provided either in this notice or any related documents including the Financial Statements and proxy a the maximum aggregate number of Shares hereby form to communicate with the Company for any purpose authorised to be purchased shall be 32,073,182 Shares, other than those expressly stated.
or, if less, the number representing approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital on the date on which this 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a resolution is passed: proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be received by post or during normal business hours only by paid for a Share shall be 5p: hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, paid for a Share shall be not more than the higher of: i 5 Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later per cent above the average closing price on the London than two days excluding non-working days before the time of Stock Exchange of a Share over the five business days the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the 3.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies higher of the last independent trade of, and the highest through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may current independent bid for, a Share on the London Stock do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Exchange: and Manual and or by logging on to the website d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority www.
CREST personal members or hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in members who have appointed a voting service provider s, respect of the year ending 30 April 2018, save that the should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, Company may, prior to such expiry, enter into a contract who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
to purchase Shares under such authority which will or may 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in any such contract.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the information required for such instruction, By order of the Board as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless Baillie Gifford & Co Limited of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an Company Secretary amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed 4 July 2017 proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar ID 3RA50 no later than two days excluding non-working days before the time of the meeting or any adjournment.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 51 Shareholder Information 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & publish, on its website, without payment a statement which Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in is also passed to the Auditors setting out any matter relating CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings to the audit of the Companys Financial Statements, including and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of the Auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
It is the responsibility of the CREST Company will be required to do so once it has received such member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a requests from either members representing at least 5% of the CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has total voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his who have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such Company on which there has been paid up an average sum action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is per member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular writing and must state your full name and address and be time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where sent to the Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system information required by section 311A of the Companies Act and timings.
2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction website at www.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 14.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of 15.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of person if you wish.
its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment relation to the same shares.
Trust Share Plan, Childrens Savings Plan or the Baillie Gifford 16.
As at 23 June 2017 being the last practicable date prior to Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and or attend the the publication of this notice the Companys issued share meeting must complete and return the enclosed reply-paid capital consisted of 213,963,859 ordinary shares, carrying Form of Direction.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Company as at 23 June 2017 were 213,963,859 votes.
Regulations 2001 and section 311 of the Companies Act 17.
Any person holding 3% or more of the total voting rights of the 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman of vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that both he and the determination by the Company of the votes they may cast, his proxy complies with their respective disclosure obligations shareholders must be registered in the Register of Members under the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of the Company no later than the close of business two days 18.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
excluding non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
