Shareholder Information Glossary of Terms Total Assets Gearing The total value of all assets held less all liabilities other than liabilities At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public in the form of borrowings.
company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing Net Asset Value on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys Net Asset Value NAV is the value of all assets held less all assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more liabilities including liabilities in the form of borrowings.
The NAV because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the per share is calculated by dividing this amount by the number of Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can ordinary shares in issue.
therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can adversely impact performance in falling markets.
The level of Net Asset Value Borrowings at Fair Value gearing can be adjusted through the use of derivatives which Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
The affect the sensitivity of the value of the portfolio to changes in the 3 fair value of the Companys 6 8% debenture stock 2023 is based level of markets.
on the closing market offer price on the London Stock Exchange.
Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a The fair value of the Companys short term bank borrowings is percentage of shareholders funds.
equivalent to its book value.
Gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash and cash Net Asset Value Borrowings at Par Value equivalents expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Borrowings are valued at their nominal par value.
Effective gearing, as defined by the Board and Managers of Discount Premium Monks, is the Companys borrowings at par less cash, brokers balances and investment grade bonds maturing within one year, As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings at par less cash, The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share brokers balances and all bonds, expressed as a percentage of price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a shareholders funds.
percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Net Liquid Assets AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the Net liquid assets comprise current assets less current liabilities Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the excluding borrowings.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be Total Return calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys dividend on the date that the share price goes ex-dividend.
positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under Ongoing Charges the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with netting positions are offset against each other.
Active Share Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active As adjusted to take into account the gearing impact of any share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers AIFM Directive In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information in relation to The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels see Glossary the Companys leverage and the remuneration of the Companys of Terms overleaf at 30 April 2017 are as follows: AIFM, Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, is required to be made available Leverage to investors.
In accordance with the Directive, the AIFM remuneration policy is available on the Managers website at Gross method Commitment method www.
com or on request see contact details on the Maximum limit 2.5:1 2.0:1 back cover.
The numerical remuneration disclosures in respect of Actual 1.1:1 1.1:1 the AIFMs relevant reporting period year ended 31 March 2017 are also available at www.
