STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GLOSSARY OF TERMS The glossary of terms below sets out definitions of terms used throughout this Annual Report & Accounts.
Included are a number of alternative performance measures APMs which are commonly used by investors or across the industry and which the directors have adopted in order to provide additional useful information on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
The APMs are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with other companies APMs.
Availability: represents the amount on a given date that can be Leverage: leverage is net debt divided by underlying EBITDA.
borrowed in addition to any current borrowings under the terms Leverage calculated at constant exchange rates uses the current of our $3.1bn asset-backed senior bank facility.
Capital expenditure: represents additions to rental equipment Net debt: net debt is total debt less cash balances, as reported.
and other tangible assets excluding assets acquired through An analysis of net debt is provided in Note 25 b to the financial a business combination.
Cash conversion ratio: represents cash flow from operations Physical utilisation: physical utilisation is measured as the before exceptional items and changes in rental equipment as daily average of the amount of itemised fleet at cost on rent as a a percentage of underlying EBITDA.
The cash conversion ratio percentage of the total fleet at cost and for Sunbelt is measured is shown on the summary cash flow statement in the Strategic only for equipment whose cost is over $7,500.
Return on Investment RoI : last 12-month underlying operating Constant currency: calculated by applying the current period profit divided by the last 12-month average of the sum of net exchange rate to the comparative period result.
tangible and intangible fixed assets, plus net working capital but excluding net debt, deferred tax and fair value measurements.
Dollar utilisation: dollar utilisation is trailing 12-month rental Amounts relating to Sunbelt and A-Plant exclude goodwill and revenue divided by average fleet at original or first cost intangible assets.
RIDDOR rate: the RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and EBITDA: EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations reportable rate is the amortisation.
A reconciliation of EBITDA is shown on the income number of major injuries or over seven-day injuries per 100,000 statement on page 96. hours worked.
Drop-through: calculated as the incremental rental revenue Same-store: same-stores are those locations which were open which converts into EBITDA.
at the start of the comparative financial period.
Exceptional items: those items that are material and nonStaff turnover: staff turnover is calculated as the number of recurring in nature that the Group believes should be disclosed leavers in a year excluding redundancies divided by the average separately to assist in the understanding of the financial headcount during the year.
Details are provided in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Suppressed availability: represents the amount on a given date that the asset base exceeds the facility size under the terms of our Fleet age: net book value weighted age of serialised rental assets.
Serialised rental assets constitute the substantial majority of our fleet.
Underlying: underlying results are the results stated before exceptional items and the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Fleet on rent: quantity measured at original cost of our rental A reconciliation is shown on the income statement on page 96. fleet on rent.
Yield: is the return we generate from our equipment.
The change Free cash flow: cash generated from operating activities less in yield is a combination of the rental rate charged, rental period net capital expenditure, interest and tax paid.
Net capital and product and customer mix.
expenditure comprises payments for capital expenditure less disposal proceeds received in relation to rental equipment and other asset disposals.
A reconciliation of free cash flow is shown in the Strategic report on page 41.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 131
