NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 specifically brands, trademarks and licences, requires a which are not formally designated as hedges, as gains and losses comparison of the present value of the related cash flows to the on hedges and hedged loans will naturally offset.
value of the other intangible assets in the balance sheet.
The e. Exposures in respect of written options to sell Euros or buy USD calculation of present value requires an estimation of the future as explained in the Financial Review.
These are not hedged and cash flows expected to arise from the other intangible assets and movements in fair value could significantly impact the profit and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
The key assumptions loss account in future periods.
See note 29. made in relation to the impairment review of other intangible assets are set out in note 17.
INTEREST RATE RISK CONTROL AND SIGNIFICANT INFLUENCE OVER CERTAIN ENTITIES The Group has net borrowings, which are principally at floating interest rates linked to bank base rates or LIBOR.
The Group does When assessing the level of control that management have over not currently use interest rate financial instruments to hedge certain entities, management will consider the various aspects its exposure to interest rate movements.
The Group regularly that allow management to influence decision making.
These monitors and reacts accordingly to any exposure to fluctuations includes the level of share ownership, board membership, the level in interest rates and the impact on its monetary assets and of investment and funding and the ability of the Group to influence liabilities.
operational and strategic decisions and effect its returns through the exercise of such influence.
CREDIT RISK DEFINING OPERATING SEGMENTS The Directors have a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Credit evaluations Management determines its operating segments with reference are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain to the Chief Operational decision makers process for making amount.
The Group does not require collateral in respect of key decisions over allocation of resources to the segment and in financial assets.
This is based on: At each balance sheet date, there were no significant The nature of the operation type and products sold concentrations of credit risk.
The maximum exposure to credit The type of class of customer targeted risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset in the balance sheet.
Product distribution methods Investments of cash surpluses, borrowings and derivative Similar operations are amalgamated into operating segments for instruments are made through banks and companies which must the purposes of segmental reporting.
See also note 4. fulfil credit rating and investment criteria approved by the Board.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT LIQUIDITY RISK The Groups current activities result in the following financial risks The availability of adequate cash resources is managed by the and set out below are managements responses to those risks in Group through utilisation of its revolving credit facilities together order to minimise any resulting adverse effects on the Groups with equity and retained profits thereby achieving continuity of financial performance.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK PRICE RISK The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk principally via: The Group is exposed to price risk in respect of its available for sale financial assets in relation to listed company shares.
a. Transactional exposure from the cost of future purchases of goods for resale, where those purchases are denominated in a The price risk relates to volatility in the market, and how other currency other than the functional currency of the purchasing comprehensive income and equity would have been affected company.
Transactional exposures that could significantly impact by changes in market risk that were reasonably possible at the the income statement are hedged.
These exposures are hedged reporting date.
If the quoted stock price for these securities via forward foreign currency contracts which are designated as increased or decreased, other comprehensive income and equity cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair value of these contracts is would have changed.
The listed securities are classified as AFS so shown in note 29. there would be no effect on profit or loss unless any decline in fair value below cost is determined to be an impairment.
b. Transactional exposure from sale of goods, where those sales are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency The investments in listed equity securities are considered medium of the selling company.
Transactional exposures that could to long-term, strategic investments.
In accordance with the significantly impact the income statement are hedged.
These Groups policies, no specific hedging activities are undertaken in exposures are hedged via forward foreign currency contracts relation to these investments.
The investments are continuously which are designated as cash flow hedges.
The notional and fair monitored and voting rights arising from these equity instruments value of these contracts is shown in note 29. are utilised in the Groups favour.
c. Net investment exposure, from the fair value of net investments CAPITAL MANAGEMENT outside the UK.
The Group hedges its international investments A description of the Groups objectives, policies and processes for via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching managing capital are included in note 29. currencies.
d. Loans to non-UK subsidiaries.
These are hedged via foreign currency transactions and borrowings in matching currencies, 108
