NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES INVESTMENTS The consolidated Financial Statements of Sports Direct Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair International plc the Company and its subsidiaries together value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the Group have been prepared in accordance with international the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains financial reporting standards as adopted by the European Union and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised IFRS.
in the statement of other comprehensive income.
When the security is disposed of, fide-recognised or is determined to be BASIS OF PREPARATION impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared income statement as a reclassification adjustment within other in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European comprehensive income.
Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations ACQUISITIONS Committee IFRSIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group readopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated measures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical acquisition date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or cost convention, as modified to include fair valuation of certain loss, if any, in the income statement as appropriate.
financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
GOODWILL CONSOLIDATION Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and The consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the revenues, reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its in circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has subsidiaries, being those entities that the Group is deemed to suffered an impairment loss.
The need for impairment is tested have control over.
It will be deemed to have control when it has by comparing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating power over the entity, is exposed to or has rights to variable unit CGU to the carrying value.
Any impairment is recognised returns from the entity and has the ability to use its power over immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses on the entity to affect the amount of the entitys returns.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is of acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration acquired the carrying value of the non-controlling interests in the transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets balance sheet is eliminated.
Any difference between the amount acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair consideration transferred below the fair values of the identifiable value of the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS statement in the period of acquisition.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of Brands, trademarks and licences that are internally generated are the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities not recorded on the balance sheet.
Costs incurred relating to acquisitions are expensed and licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The to the income statement.
fair value of brands, trademarks and licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed year are included in the consolidated income statement from the cost to the Group.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Expenditure on advertising and promotional activities is recognised as an expense as incurred.
ASSOCIATES No amortisation is charged on those brands, trademarks or Associates are entities over which the Group has significant perpetual renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of believes that the value of these brands and trade marks can be between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Group carries out an impairment The Groups share of the results of associates is included in the review of indefinite life intangibles, at least annually, or when Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the intangibles have suffered an impairment loss.
Impairment is Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition measured by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates asset as part of the CGU with the recoverable amount of the CGU, and joint ventures, less any impairment in value.
The carrying that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value values of investments in associates include acquired goodwill.
Value in use is calculated by using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of If the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates its investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains arising Amortisation is provided on other brands, trademarks and from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of licences with a definite life on a straight line basis over their the Groups interest in the entity.
useful economic lives of between 5 to 15 years and is accounted 102 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 for within the selling, distribution and administrative expenses asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from category within the income statement.
other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
With respect to property, plant PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT and equipment, each store is considered to be a CGU and where onerous leases are noted the assets of each individual store are Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost individually assessed for impairment.
less depreciation less any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell or construction of these items.
Subsequent costs are included in and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future the assets carrying amount only when it is probable that future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the and the costs can be measured reliably.
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
All other costs, including repairs and maintenance costs, are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be incurred.
less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment recognised as an expense immediately, unless the relevant asset other than freehold land and is calculated on a reducing balance is carried at a re-valued amount, in which case the impairment basis or straight-line basis, whichever is deemed by the directors loss is treated as a revaluation decrease to the original historic to be more appropriate, to allocate cost less assessed residual cost and then as an expense.
value, other than assets in the course of construction, over the estimated useful lives, as follows: Impairment losses recognised for CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are credited initially to the carrying amount of Freehold buildings - between 4% and 10% per annum - goodwill.
Any remaining impairment loss is charged pro rata to straight line the other assets in the CGU.
Leasehold improvements - over the term of the lease - Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying straight line amount of the asset CGU excluding goodwill, is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the Plant and equipment - between 20% and 33% per annum - increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount straight line that would have been determined had no impairment loss been The assets useful lives and residual values are reviewed and, if recognised for the asset CGU in prior periods.
A reversal of appropriate, adjusted at each balance sheet date.
an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.
The gain or loss arising on disposal or scrapping of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds, net REVENUE RECOGNITION of selling costs, and the carrying amount of the asset and is Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration recognised in the income statement.
received, or receivable, and represents amounts receivable for goods supplied, stated net of discounts, returns and value added Property, plant and equipment where the carrying amount is taxes.
recovered principally through a sales transaction and where a sale is considered to be highly probable is stated at the lower of In the case of goods sold through retail stores, revenue is carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
recognised at the point of sale of a product to the customer, less provision for returns.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate INVESTMENT PROPERTIES and provide for such returns at the time of the sale.
Retail sales Investment properties, which are defined as property held for are usually in cash, by debit card or by credit card.
rental income or capital appreciation, are initially measured at cost being purchase price and directly attributable expenditure.
In the case of goods sold on the internet, revenue is recognised at the point that the risks and rewards of the inventory have Subsequently investment properties are held at cost less passed to the customer, which is the point of delivery to the accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Transactions are settled by credit card or payment properties are depreciated over between 10 and 25 years other card.
Provisions are made for internet credit notes based on than the land element which is not depreciated.
the expected level of returns, which in turn is based upon the historical rate of returns.
Fair values of the investment properties are disclosed.
In the case of goods sold to other businesses via wholesale IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS OTHER THAN GOODWILL AND channels, revenue is recognised when the substantial risks and INTANGIBLE ASSETS WITH AN INDEFINITE LIFE rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
At each balance sheet date, the Directors review the carrying In the case of income generated from trademarks and licences, amounts of the Groups tangible and intangible assets, other than revenue is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite life, to determine relevant agreements or on a transactional basis when revenue is whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered linked to sale or purchase volumes.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset in its current condition is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any.
Where the 103 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS LOANS AND RECEIVABLES The Group presents exceptional items on the face of the income Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus statement, those significant items of income and expense which, transaction costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost because of their size, nature and infrequency of the events giving under the effective interest method less provision for impairment.
rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow shareholders to Provision for impairment is established when there is objective understand better the elements of financial performance in the evidence that the Group will not be able to collect amounts due year, so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and assess according to the original terms of the receivable.
The amount of trends in financial performance more readily.
the impairment is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, INTEREST INCOME discounted at the original effective interest rate.
Interest income is reported on an accruals basis using the CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS effective interest method.
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held FOREIGN CURRENCIES on call, together with other short term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which The presentational currency of the Group is sterling.
The are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
functional currency of the Company is also sterling.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling using the TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES exchange rates prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences of the Company arising on the settlement of Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of TAXATION non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in the Tax expense comprises of current and deferred tax.
Tax is income statement for the period except for differences arising on recognised in the income statement, except to the extent it the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income.
such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in other comprehensive Deferred taxation is calculated using the liability method, on income.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated balance sheet date.
However, if the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or initial recognition of an asset or On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at which have a functional currency other than sterling are the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable translated into sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at profit or loss, it is not accounted for.
Deferred tax on temporary the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of these differences associated with shares in subsidiaries is not provided subsidiary undertakings are translated at average rates applicable if reversal of these temporary differences can be controlled by in the period.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised the Group and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the in other comprehensive income and documented in a separate foreseeable future.
In addition, tax losses available to be carried component of equity.
forward as well as other income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.
Deferred tax When a foreign operation is sold, the cumulative exchange is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted differences that have been recognised as a separate component or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are of equity are reclassified from equity to the income statement expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised when disposal is recognised.
or the deferred tax liability is settled.
In order to mitigate its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full.
the Group enters into forward contracts see Chief Executives report and the cash flow hedging accounting policy on pages 105 Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is to 106. probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
INVENTORIES Inventories are valued at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Changes in current and deferred tax assets or liabilities are Cost includes the purchase price of the manufactured products, recognised as a component of tax expense in the income materials, direct labour, transport costs and a proportion of statement, except where they relate to items that are recorded applicable overheads.
Cost is calculated using the weighted in other comprehensive income or charged or credited directly average cost method.
Net realisable value is based on the to equity in which case the related deferred tax is also charged estimated selling price less all estimated selling costs.
to other comprehensive income or credited directly to equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
The Company receives trade discounts and rebates from suppliers PENSIONS based upon the volume of orders placed in a given time window.
Where there is sufficient certainty that a discount or rebate will The Group operates pension plans for the benefit of certain be received in the future that relates to historic purchases this is employees, including both defined contribution and defined reflected in the cost of inventories.
104 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 In relation to its defined contribution plans, the Group makes LEASES contributions to independently administered plans, the Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has contributions being recognised as an expense when they fall due.
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified The Group has no legal or constructive obligation to make any as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases further payments to the plans other than the contributions due.
inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease In relation to its defined benefit schemes, the Group recognises payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so in its balance sheet the present value of its defined benefit as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
obligations less the fair value of plan assets.
The current service The asset subject to the finance lease is depreciated over the cost is charged against operating profit.
Interest on the schemes shorter of its useful life and the lease term.
The corresponding liabilities is included in finance costs.
rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included as a liability.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated at each period end by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group does The present value of the obligation is determined by discounting not have substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity basis over the lease term.
Incentives provided by the lessor are approximating the terms of the related pension liabilities.
credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are reflected in other Contingent rental payments, above standard payments, are comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
conditional on the Groups operating performance derived from the lease item, e. g. turnover levels.
These are expensed in the BORROWINGS AND BORROWING COSTS period in which they are incurred.
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Rental income from operating leases where the Group acts as a costs incurred, and subsequently at amortised cost.
Any lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and relevant lease.
the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGE ACCOUNTING The most significant exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group relates to purchases and sales made in foreign currencies, has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability principally the US Dollar and Euro.
The Groups policy is to for at least 12 months from the balance sheet date.
Borrowing substantially reduce the risk associated with purchases and sales costs, being interest and other costs incurred in connection with denominated in foreign currencies by using forward fixed rate the servicing of borrowings, are recognised as an expense when currency purchase contracts, taking into account any foreign incurred.
PROVISIONS Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or Where derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting, any constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable gains or losses on re-measurement are immediately recognised that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the in the income statement.
Where derivatives qualify for hedge obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the obligation.
the nature of the hedge relationship and the item being hedged.
The Group provides for its legal responsibility for dilapidation In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group is required to costs following advice from chartered surveyors and previous document from inception the relationship between the item being experience of exit costs.
The estimated cost of fulfilling the hedged and the hedging instrument.
The Group is also required leasehold dilapidations obligations is discounted to present value to document and demonstrate an assessment of the relationship and analysed between non-capital and capital components.
The between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which capital element is depreciated over the life of the asset.
The nonshows that the hedge will be highly effective on an on-going basis.
capital element is taken to the income statement in the first year This effectiveness testing is performed at each reporting date to of the lease where the cost it represents is of no lasting benefit ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
to the Group or its landlord.
Wear and tear costs are expensed to the income statement.
Provisions for onerous lease contracts Written option contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised when the Group believes the unavoidable costs and fair value movements are recognised directly in the income of meeting the lease obligations exceed the economic benefits statement.
expected to be received under the lease.
CASH FLOW HEDGING Other provisions include managements best estimate of Derivative financial instruments are classified as cash flow hedges restructuring, employment related costs, legal costs and other when they hedge the Groups exposure to variability in cash claims.
The Group provides for bad flows that are either attributable to a particular risk associated debts that arise on outstanding debtor balances.
with a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction.
105 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 The effective element of any gain or loss from re-measuring weeks ended 30 April 2017.
The key details in respect of the share the derivative instrument is recognised directly in other scheme charges are set out in note 23. comprehensive income.
The credit for the share based payment charge does not equal The associated cumulative gain or loss is reclassified from other the charge per the income statement as it excludes amounts comprehensive income in the same period or periods during recognised in the balance sheet in relation to the expected which the hedged transaction affects the profit or loss.
The national insurance contributions for the shares.
classification of the effective portion when recognised in the EQUITY INSTRUMENTS income statement is the same as the classification of the hedged transaction.
Any element of the re-measurement of the derivative An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual instrument which does not meet the criteria for an effective hedge interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its is recognised immediately in the income statement within finance liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at income or costs.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the the proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point in DIVIDENDS time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument Dividends are recognised as a liability in the Groups Financial recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted Statements and as a deduction from equity in the period in transaction occurs upon which the cumulative gain is reclassified which the dividends are declared.
Where such dividends are from Other Comprehensive Income to the Income Statement.
proposed subject to the approval of shareholders, the dividends If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net are regarded as declared once shareholder approval has been cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive obtained.
income is reclassified from equity to the income statement as a reclassification adjustment.
MATERIALITY In preparing the Financial Statements, the Board considers both TREASURY SHARES quantitative and qualitative factors in forming its judgements, The purchase price of the Groups own shares that it acquires is and related disclosures, and are mindful of the need to best serve recognised as Treasury shares within equity.
When shares are the interests of its stakeholders and to avoid unnecessary clutter transferred out of treasury the difference between the market borne of the disclosure of immaterial items.
value and the average purchase price of shares sold out of treasury is transferred to retained earnings.
In making this assessment the Board considers the nature of each item, as well as its size, in assessing whether any disclosure EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST omissions or misstatements could influence the decisions of An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes users of the Financial Statements.
of satisfying certain share-based awards.
The Group has fidefacto control over the special purpose entity.
This Trust is fully The Board has applied a typical materiality threshold of 5% of the underlying EBITDA, the Groups primary profit measure, in order to consolidated within the accounts.
The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within own calculate materiality levels.
For the Financial Year ended 30 April 2017, the current year EBITDA of 272.7m gives a materiality level share-reserve in equity.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain STANDARDS IN ISSUE BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE Directors and employees.
These are measured at fair value at the date of grant, which is expensed to the consolidated income At the date of authorisation of these consolidated Financial statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with Statements, the International Accounting Standards Board the corresponding credit going to equity.
IASB and International Financial Reporting Standards Committee IFRSC have issued the following standards Non-market vesting conditions are not taken into account in and interpretations which are effective for annual accounting determining grant date fair value.
Instead, they are taken into periods beginning on or after the stated effective date.
These account by adjusting the number of equity instruments to vest.
standards and interpretations are not effective for, and have not been applied in, the preparation of the consolidated Financial Fair value is based on the market share price on the grant Statements: date.
The expected staff numbers used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IASB effective date 1 January of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural 2018 considerations.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IASB For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the Group effective 1 January 2018 measures the services received and the liability incurred at the fair value of the liability.
Until the liability is settled, the Group IFRS 16 Leases IASB effective 1 January 2019 remeasures the fair value of the liability at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement, with any changes Although no formal assessment has been made, the in fair value recognised in the profit and loss for the period.
directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on A share-based payment charge of 2.8m was recognised in the Financial Statements of the Group, except for IFRS 16, which selling, distribution and administrative expenses for the 53 will result in the majority of operating leases being recognised 106
