NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES LOANS AND RECEIVABLES ACCOUNTING POLICIES Loans and receivables are recognised initially at fair value plus transaction costs less provision for impairment.
Provision for These financial statements have been prepared in compliance impairment is established when there is objective evidence that with FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the the company will not be able to collect amounts due according to UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and the requirements of the original terms of the receivable.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary amounts in these Trade and other payables are initially measured at fair value, and financial statements are rounded to the nearest m. are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method.
These accounts have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
A summary of the material REVISED PRESENTATION OF CASH POOLING ARRANGEMENTS accounting policies adopted are described below.
We have also revised the presentation of our cash pooling arrangement following the release of an IFRIC clarification on BASIS OF ACCOUNTING IAS 32 Financial instruments presentation offsetting and cash The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost pooling arrangements in April 2016.
This requirement resulted in basis except for the modification to a fair value basis for certain us grossing up cash and cash equivalents and short-term loans financial instruments as specified in the accounting policies and other borrowings by 70m at April 2017 and Nil at April below.
2016 with no impact on the income statement for the notional cash pooling arrangements in place.
These financial statements for the period ended 30 April 2017 are prepared in accordance with FRS 102, The Financial Reporting EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
An Employee Benefit Trust has been established for the purposes of satisfying certain share-based awards.
The Group has fide As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, a profit facto control over the special purpose entity.
The Trust is fully and loss account of the Company is not presented.
The Companys consolidated within the accounts.
profit after taxation for the 53 week period ended 30 April 2017 was 12.2m 2016: 42.0m.
The cost of shares acquired by the Sports Direct Employee Benefit Trust is recognised within own share-reserve in equity.
As permitted by FRS 102 the company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation DEFERRED TAXATION to financial instruments, presentation of a cash flow statement, Deferred tax is provided for on a full provision basis on all timing share-based payments, the aggregate remuneration of key differences, which have arisen but not reversed at the balance management personnel and related party transactions with other sheet date.
No timing differences are recognised in respect of wholly-owned members of the group.
Where required, equivalent gains on sale of assets where those gains have been rolled over disclosures are given in the group accounts of Sports Direct into replacement assets.
A deferred tax asset is not recognised to International plc.
the extent that the transfer of economic benefit in future is more unlikely than not.
INVESTMENTS Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint Deferred tax is calculated on a non-discounted basis at the tax ventures are shown at cost less provision for impairment.
rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or The company has elected to designate listed investments as substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
available-for-sale financial assets as at the date of transition.
Under previous UK GAAP listed investments were held at cost less FOREIGN CURRENCIES impairment.
The company has elected to follow the requirements Items arising from transactions denominated in foreign of IAS 39, as permitted by FRS 102 Section 12, and the fair value currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling from one period to another being shown within the statement of at the date of the transaction.
At the balance sheet date other comprehensive income.
all monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the closing rate or at the Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair rate of exchange at which the transaction is contracted value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in to be settled in the future.
All exchange differences the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains are recognised in the profit and loss account.
and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income.
When the DIVIDENDS security is disposed of, fide-recognised or is determined to be impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in Dividends on the Companys ordinary shares are recognised other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the as a liability in the Companys Financial Statements, and as a profit and loss account as a reclassification adjustment within deduction from equity, in the period in which the dividends are other income.
Where such dividends are proposed subject to the approval of the Companys shareholders, the dividends are only declared once shareholder approval has been obtained.
