Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 EQUITY INSTRUMENTS CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its CALCULATION OF SHARE SCHEME CHARGE: liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the Company, with the A share based payment charge is recognised in respect of share exception of those accounted for via merger relief available under awards based on the directors best estimate of the numbers of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006, are recorded at the shares that will vest.
The charge is calculated based on the fair proceeds received, net of any direct issue costs.
value at the grant date, which is deemed to be the date on which the entity and counterparty reached a shared understanding of INCOME FROM GROUP UNDERTAKINGS the scheme.
Income from Group undertakings is recognised when qualifying consideration is received from the Group undertaking.
ASSUMPTIONS RELATING TO TAX Management estimation is required to determine the amount of RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS deferred tax assets or liabilities that can be recognised, based The Company has taken advantage of the exemption contained in upon likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with FRS 102 and has therefore not disclosed transactions or balances an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies.
with wholly-owned subsidiaries which form part of the Group.
INVESTMENTS SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 2017 2016 The Company issues equity-settled share-based payments m m to certain Directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Investments in subsidiaries 1,124.2 1,122.8 Available-for-sale financial The fair value of the share options on the date of the grant is 55.7 57.9 assets charged to the profit and loss account over the vesting period of the share option, based on the number of options which are 1,179.9 1,180.7 expected to become exercisable.
A corresponding adjustment is made to equity.
At each balance sheet date the company revises The fair value of the available-for-sale investments is based on its estimates of the number of options that are expected to bid quoted market prices at the balance sheet date or where become exercisable and recognises the impact of any revision of market prices are not available, at managements best estimate.
original estimates in the profit and loss account.
Available-for-sale investments represent a 29.9% stake in Findel The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, plc and an 11.2% stake in French Connection Group plc.
based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural The Company is the principal holding company of the Group.
A share-based payment charge of 2.3m was principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out in recognised for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 based on the note 41 to the Group Financial Statements.
Directors best estimate of the number of shares that will vest.
2.2m of this share-based payment was recharged to subsidiary 3.
DEBTORS undertakings of the Company.
2017 2016 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS m m In the application of the companys accounting policies, the Amounts owed by Group 4.4 0.3 directors are required to make judgements, estimates and undertakings assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities Derivative financial assets - 20.4 that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience Deposits in respect of derivative 148.1 107.0 and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual financial instruments results may differ from these estimates.
Other taxes and social security - 0.1 costs The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an Prepayments 1.0 2.9 ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised, if the revision Deferred tax assets 1.7 - affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods.
155.2 130.7 The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets Deposits in respect of derivative financial instruments and liabilities are outlined below.
are collateral to cover margin requirements for derivative transactions held with counterparties.
The collateral requirement changes with the market which is dependent on share price, interest rates and volatility and further purchases sales of underlying investments held.
