DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, To the best of our knowledge: the Remuneration Report and the Company and Group Financial a the Annual Report, including the strategic report, prepared in Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, gives Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors profit of the Company and of the undertakings included in the are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in consolidation taken as a whole: accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
b the management report includes a fair review of the The Directors have elected to prepare the Company Financial development and performance of the business and the position of Statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Accepted Accounting Practices UK GAAP including FRS 102. taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial and uncertainties that they face.
Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Board has reviewed the Annual Report and has confirmed it is view of the state of affairs and profit or loss of the Company and fair, balanced and understandable.
In preparing the Financial Statements the Directors are required to: On behalf of the Board select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Mike Ashley consistently: Chief Executive make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 19 July 2017 for the Group Financial Statements, state whether the applicable IFRSs have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: for the Company Financial Statements, state whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements, and the Remuneration Report, comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
