NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 52 weeks ended 24 April 2016 Trade and other Trade and other Sales Purchases Relationship receivables payables m m m m RELATED PARTY Brasher Leisure Limited Associate 12.1 1.5 4.2 0.1 Mash Holdings Limited Parent company - 0.6 - - NDS EHF Associate 2.3 - 0.4 - Rangers Retail Limited Associate 2.1 - 0.3 - St James Holdings Connected persons 0.1 - - Newcastle United Football Club Connected persons 1.6 - 0.1 - Queensdown Associates Limited Associate 0.9 - 1.4 - The Group has agreements with Rangers Retail Limited and Newcastle United Football Club, amongst other football clubs, whereby the Group provides procurement and warehousing services on behalf of the club.
Store sales are received directly by the entities, for web sales a service fee is charged by the entities to the group and Sales disclosed above relate solely to goods bought from the Group.
An agreement has been entered into with Double Take Limited, a company owned by Mash Holdings Limited in which Matilda Ashley, Mike Ashleys daughter, is a director.
Under the agreement Double Take licences the Group the exclusive rights to the cosmetic brand SPORT FX.
No royalties or other fees are payable to Double Take for these rights until September 2019 at the earliest, when this fee arrangement will be reviewed on a going forwards basis.
It should be noted that the Group rather than Double Take owns the rights to SPORT FX for clothing, footwear and sports equipment.
All related party transactions were undertaken on an arms-length basis.
KEY MANAGEMENT, EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 30 April 2017 24 April 2016 m m Salaries and short-term benefits 1.4 1.4 Share-based payments 0.7 1.0 Total 2.1 2.4 38.
COMMERCIAL ARRANGEMENTS The Company has a contract in place with Barlin Delivery Limited, a company 100% owned by John Ashley, who is the brother of Mike Ashley.
This contractual arrangement was entered into under market terms, and made good commercial sense for the Company and its shareholders at that time.
The profit and loss effect of the arrangement managed by Barlin Delivery Ltd to the Sports Direct Group did not exceed 0.2m p. a.
Subsequent to the year end this arrangement ceased.
As previously announced the directors do not consider Barlin Delivery Limited to be a related party under the definitions within IAS 24.
MM Prop Consultancy Ltd, a company owned and controlled by Michael Murray domestic partner of Anna Ashley, daughter of Mike Ashley, continues to provide property consultancy services to the group.
MM Prop Consultancy Ltd is primarily tasked with finding and negotiating the acquisition of new sites for both our larger format stores and our combined retail and gym units but it also provides advice to the Companys in-house property team in relation to existing sites both in the UK and in Europe.
MM Prop Consultancy Ltd fees are linked directly to value creation which is determined by the Company's non-executive directors who independently review performance bi-annually with a view to determining, at their absolute and sole discretion, the quantum of the fee payable.
Under the terms of the agreement with MM Prop Consultancy Ltd no fees are payable until the earliest of 30 September 2018 so that the Companys independent non-executive directors have a sufficient amount of time to assess performance.
During the year ended 30 April 2017, Central London Projects Ltd, a company owned and controlled by Michael Murray, invoiced the Group 0.3m in respect of property planning & development costs.
This was the final invoice in respect of a project undertaken by CLP on behalf of the Group to provide a turn-key design and construction of multiple 4 flats located above an existing Sports Direct Store.
The total invoices raised by CLP to the Group for the entire project was 1.47m, and the project was completed in the year.
At 30 April 2017 there was no balance due to CLP.
The contract was under normal commercial terms and was entered into in 2014 before the current arrangement with MM Prop Consultancy Ltd was agreed and executed.
The Sports Direct Group has commercial arrangements in place with IBSL Consultancy Limited.
Based on media coverage of the relationship between Justin Barnes, a director of IBSL Consultancy Limited, and Mike Ashley, Chief Executive Officer of the Sports Direct Group, management has considered whether a related party relationship exists and concluded that Justin Barnes and or IBSL Consultancy Limited are acting in an advisory capacity only and are not performing key management functions that would indicate a related party relationship.
Management decisions are made solely by the management of the Group.
