NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES INVESTMENTS The consolidated Financial Statements of Sports Direct Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair International plc the Company and its subsidiaries together value.
Where fair value is different to cost, this is recognised in the Group have been prepared in accordance with international the income statement on initial recognition.
Subsequent gains financial reporting standards as adopted by the European Union and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised IFRS.
in the statement of other comprehensive income.
When the security is disposed of, fide-recognised or is determined to be BASIS OF PREPARATION impaired the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to the The consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared income statement as a reclassification adjustment within other in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European comprehensive income.
Union including International Accounting Standards IAS and International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations ACQUISITIONS Committee IFRSIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS as For business combinations achieved in stages, the Group readopted for use in the European Union.
The consolidated measures its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical acquisition date fair value and recognises the resulting gain or cost convention, as modified to include fair valuation of certain loss, if any, in the income statement as appropriate.
financial assets and derivative financial instruments.
GOODWILL CONSOLIDATION Goodwill arising on consolidation is recognised as an asset and The consolidated Financial Statements consolidate the revenues, reviewed for impairment at least annually or when a change costs, assets, liabilities and cash flows of the Company and its in circumstances or situation indicates that the goodwill has subsidiaries, being those entities that the Group is deemed to suffered an impairment loss.
The need for impairment is tested have control over.
It will be deemed to have control when it has by comparing the recoverable amount of the cash-generating power over the entity, is exposed to or has rights to variable unit CGU to the carrying value.
Any impairment is recognised returns from the entity and has the ability to use its power over immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses on the entity to affect the amount of the entitys returns.
Gains and losses on the disposal of a business include the amount of goodwill relating to that business.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date When the non-controlling interest of an existing subsidiary is of acquisition.
Any excess of fair value of the consideration acquired the carrying value of the non-controlling interests in the transferred over the fair values of the identifiable net assets balance sheet is eliminated.
Any difference between the amount acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of fair value of by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair consideration transferred below the fair values of the identifiable value of the consideration paid is recognised directly in equity.
net assets acquired is credited to the consolidated income OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS statement in the period of acquisition.
The non-controlling interest is stated at the non-controlling interests proportion of Brands, trademarks and licences that are internally generated are the fair values of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities not recorded on the balance sheet.
Costs incurred relating to acquisitions are expensed and licences are initially carried on the balance sheet at cost.
The to the income statement.
fair value of brands, trademarks and licences that are acquired by virtue of a business combination is determined at the date of The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the acquisition and is subsequently assessed as being the deemed year are included in the consolidated income statement from the cost to the Group.
effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Expenditure on advertising and promotional activities is recognised as an expense as incurred.
ASSOCIATES No amortisation is charged on those brands, trademarks or Associates are entities over which the Group has significant perpetual renewable licences with an indefinite life as the Group influence but not control, generally accompanied by a share of believes that the value of these brands and trade marks can be between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The Group carries out an impairment The Groups share of the results of associates is included in the review of indefinite life intangibles, at least annually, or when Groups consolidated income statement using the equity method a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those of accounting.
Investments in associates are carried in the intangibles have suffered an impairment loss.
Impairment is Groups consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition measured by comparing the carrying amount of the intangible changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associates asset as part of the CGU with the recoverable amount of the CGU, and joint ventures, less any impairment in value.
The carrying that is, the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value values of investments in associates include acquired goodwill.
Value in use is calculated by using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of If the Groups share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates its investment in the associate, the Group does not recognise of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
further losses, unless it has incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Unrealised gains arising Amortisation is provided on other brands, trademarks and from transactions with associates are eliminated to the extent of licences with a definite life on a straight line basis over their the Groups interest in the entity.
useful economic lives of between 5 to 15 years and is accounted 102
