Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 within assets on the Balance Sheet with a corresponding liability.
considered in determining future forecast individual store For current operating lease information see note 34. performance 2.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 5.
Planned store closures, re-locations and re-brandings The critical accounting estimates and judgements made by the 6.
Lease obligations calculated to end of the lease or where Group regarding the future or other key sources of estimation, applicable break clause uncertainty and judgement that may have a significant risk of giving rise to a material adjustment to the carrying values of Further information on the basis of the estimation of provisioning assets and liabilities within the next financial year are: for dilapidations and onerous lease contracts is detailed in the provisions accounting policy and note 28.
PROVISION FOR OBSOLETE, SLOW MOVING OR DEFECTIVE INVENTORIES OTHER PROVISIONS The Directors have applied their knowledge and experience of the Provisions are made for items where the Group has identified retail industry in determining the level and rates of provisioning a present legal or constructive obligation arising as a result of required in calculating the appropriate inventory carrying a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be values.
Specific estimates and judgements applied in relation to required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be assessing the level of inventory provisions required are considered made of the amount of the obligation.
in relation to the following areas: Other provisions relate to managements best estimates of 1.
Core stock provisions required for restructuring, employment, commercial, legal and regulatory claims and ongoing non-UK tax enquiries.
Seasonal stock lines specifically seasons that have now Where applicable these are inclusive of any estimated penalties, finished interest and legal costs, and are net of any associated recoverable amounts.
Third party versus own brand inventory OTHER RECEIVABLES 4.
Ageing of inventory Other receivables are stated net of provision for any impairment.
Local economic conditions Management have applied estimates in assessing the recoverability of working capital and loan advances made to 6.
Divisional specific factors investee companies.
Matters considered include the relevant financial strength of the underlying investee company to 7.
Increased cost of stock and lower margins with the devaluation repay the loans, the terms of the monies advanced, forecast of the pound performance of the underlying borrower, and where relevant, the groups intentions for the companies to which monies have been Estimates are then applied to the various categories of advanced.
inventory to calculate an appropriate level of provision.
These estimates are formed using a combination of factors including DETERMINING RELATED PARTY RELATIONSHIPS historical experience, managements knowledge of the industry, group discounting and sales pricing protocols, and the overall Management determines whether a related party relationship assessment made by management of the risks in relation to exists by assessing the nature of the relationship by reference inventory.
Management use a number of internally generated to the requirements of IAS 24, Related Parties.
This is in order reports to monitor and continually re-assess the adequacy and to determine whether significant influence exists as a result of accuracy of the provisions made.
The additional cost of repricing control, shared directors or parent companies, or close family stock and handling charges are considered in arriving at the relationships.
The level at which one party may be expected to appropriate percentage provision.
influence the other is also considered for transactions involving close family relationships.
Where the Group are aware that PROPERTY RELATED PROVISIONS relationships exist that they do not consider to meet the definition Property related estimates and judgements are continually of related parties, but believe that the arrangements will be of evaluated and are based on historical experience, external advice interest to the users of the accounts, these are disclosed under and other factors, including expectations of future events that Commercial Arrangements.
See note 38 for more details.
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Where an IMPAIRMENT OF GOODWILL onerous lease has been identified, the assets dedicated to that store are also reviewed for impairment.
The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying amount of goodwill requires a comparison of the present value Specific assumptions which involve the use of estimates to of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated to the determine the appropriate level of provision include: value of goodwill and associated assets in the balance sheet.
The calculation of present values requires an estimation of the future 1.
Forecast sales in stores, reflecting historic and expected future cash flows expected to arise from the CGUs and the selection of performance a suitable discount rate.
The key assumptions made in relation to the impairment review of goodwill are set out in note 17.
Forecast wages and direct store cost inflation IMPAIRMENT OF OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 3.
The impact to gross margins due to currency fluctuations The calculation for considering the impairment of the carrying 4.
Impact of Elevation of Sports Retail strategy in UK has been amount of other intangible assets with an indefinite life, 107
