Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies b Basis of consolidation a Basis of preparation i Subsidiaries These financial statements are consolidated financial statements The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the for the Group consisting of DS Smith Plc, a company registered consolidated financial statements from the date that control in the UK, and all its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial commences until the date that control ceases.
Control is achieved statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors when the Company has the power to govern the financial and in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, and with those parts of from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting of during the year are included in the consolidated income under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are also statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and Accounting Standards Board IASB.
any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the consolidated financial statements.
historical cost basis with the exception of assets and liabilities of certain financial instruments, employee benefit plans and ii Interests in equity accounted investments share-based payments that are stated at their fair value.
The Groups interests in equity accounted investments comprise interests in associates and joint ventures.
An associate is an entity The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or a going concern basis as set out on page 58 of the Directors joint control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of Governance report.
The Directors consider that adequate resources the investment.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets foreseeable future.
of the entity, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires its liabilities.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using that affect whether and how policies are applied, and the reported the equity method.
They are recognised initially at cost, which amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
Subsequent to initial recognition the with a significant risk of material adjustment are discussed in consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the accounting policy 1 x.
There are no critical accounting judgements.
profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity accounted investments, until the date on which significant influence or joint The following new accounting standards, amendments or interpretations have been adopted by the Group as of 1 May 2016: control ceases.
IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint iii Non-controlling interests Operations Amendments to IFRS 11: Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in the consolidated statement of financial position net of the value IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1: of options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle: Groups subsidiaries.
Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial iv Business combinations Statements : and The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations has not had a material effect on the results for the year.
Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which The accounting policies set out below have been applied the combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
consistently in all periods presented in these consolidated financial Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date statements.
The accounting policies have been applied consistently and applied retrospectively.
The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is recorded as goodwill.
The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date.
90 90 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Significant accounting policies b Basis of consolidation 1.
Significant accounting policies continued liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the reporting a Basis of preparation c Revenue i Subsidiaries date are translated into the functional currency at the foreign These financial statements are consolidated financial statements The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Revenue comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services, exchange rates ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences for the Group consisting of DS Smith Plc, a company registered net of value added tax and other sales taxes, rebates and discounts consolidated financial statements from the date that control arising on translation of monetary assets and liabilities are in the UK, and all its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved and after eliminating sales within the Group.
Revenue from the sale recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors of goods is recognised when: when the Company has the power to govern the financial and assets and liabilities that are measured at historical cost in a in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the Group has transferred the significant risks and rewards of as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs, and with those parts of from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed the dates of the transactions.
ownership to the buyer: the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting of during the year are included in the consolidated income The assets and liabilities of all the Group entities that have a all significant performance obligations have been met: under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements are also statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the functional currency other than sterling are translated at the closing in compliance with IFRSs as issued by the International effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Intra-group balances and the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement nor exchange rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for Accounting Standards Board IASB.
any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising effective control over the goods sold: each income statement are translated at average exchange rates from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the consolidated financial statements.
transaction will flow to the Group: and historical cost basis with the exception of assets and liabilities cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, of certain financial instruments, employee benefit plans and ii Interests in equity accounted investments the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
in which case income and expenses are translated at the date of share-based payments that are stated at their fair value.
The Groups interests in equity accounted investments comprise the transactions.
This is typically either when the goods are loaded onto the interests in associates and joint ventures.
An associate is an entity The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation collection vehicle if the buyer is collecting them, or when the over which the Group has significant influence, but not control or a going concern basis as set out on page 58 of the Directors goods are unloaded at the delivery address if the Group is of the net investment in foreign entities, borrowings, and other joint control, over the financial and operating policy decisions of Governance report.
The Directors consider that adequate resources financial instruments designated as hedges of such investments, responsible for delivery.
A joint venture is an entity in which the Group exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the are recognised in the translation reserve.
On the disposal of foreign has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets d Supplier rebates foreseeable future.
currency entities, the cumulative exchange difference recorded of the entity, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for The Group receives income from its suppliers, mainly in the form in the translation reserve is taken to the consolidated income The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires its liabilities.
of volume based rebates and early settlement discounts.
These are statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions recognised as a reduction in operating costs in the year to which Interests in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using that affect whether and how policies are applied, and the reported h Intangible assets they relate.
At the period end the Group is sometimes required the equity method.
Estimates i Goodwill to estimate supplier income due from annual agreements for includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition the with a significant risk of material adjustment are discussed in The recognition of business combinations requires the excess volume rebates.
consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the accounting policy 1 x.
of the purchase price of acquisitions over the net book value of profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity accounted e Government grants identifiable assets acquired to be allocated to the assets and investments, until the date on which significant influence or joint The following new accounting standards, amendments or i Emission quotas liabilities of the acquired entity.
The Group makes judgements interpretations have been adopted by the Group as of 1 May 2016: control ceases.
The Group participates in Phase II of the EU Emissions and estimates in relation to the fair value allocation of the Trading Scheme.
Emission quotas received in a period are initially IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint iii Non-controlling interests purchase price.
recognised at a nominal value of nil.
As a result, no asset or liability Operations Amendments to IFRS 11: Non-controlling interests are shown as a component of equity in Goodwill is stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
is initially recognised in the statement of financial position.
the consolidated statement of financial position net of the value IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 1: A provision is recognised if there is any anticipated shortfall in the The useful life of goodwill is considered to be indefinite.
Goodwill of options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the is allocated to the cash generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs, Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle: level of quotas received or purchased when compared with actual Groups subsidiaries.
emissions in any given period, measured at the market price of such that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial iv Business combinations and is tested annually for impairment: or more frequently if quotas at the reporting date.
Excess emission quotas acquired as Statements : and The acquisition method is used to account for the acquisition of part of a business combination are recognised as intangible assets impairment is indicated.
Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable subsidiaries.
Identifiable net assets acquired including intangibles at their fair value on the date of acquisition.
Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of ii Other at the acquisition date.
The adoption of these standards, amendments and interpretations Other government grants are recognised in the statement the profit or loss recognised in the consolidated income statement.
has not had a material effect on the results for the year.
Where the measurement of the fair value of identifiable net assets of financial position initially as deferred income when there is ii Intellectual property acquired is incomplete at the end of the reporting period in which reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group The accounting policies set out below have been applied Intellectual property is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation the combination occurs, the Group will report provisional fair values.
will comply with the conditions attached to them.
Grants that consistently in all periods presented in these consolidated financial and impairment losses.
Final fair values are determined within a year of the acquisition date compensate the Group for expenses incurred are offset against the statements.
expenses in the same periods in which the expenses are incurred.
iii Computer software by all Group entities.
Grants relating to assets are released to the income statement over Computer software that is integral to a related item of hardware is The excess of the consideration transferred and the amount of any the expected useful life of the asset to which they relate on a basis included within property, plant and equipment.
All other computer non-controlling interest over the fair value of the identifiable assets consistent with the depreciation policy.
Depreciation is provided software is treated as an intangible asset.
including intangibles, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired is on the full cost of the assets before deducting grants.
iv Customer related f Dividends Customer relationships, acquired as part of a business combination, The consideration transferred is measured as the fair value of the Dividends attributable to the equity holders of the Company paid are capitalised separately from goodwill and are carried at cost less assets given, equity instruments issued if any, and liabilities during the year are recognised directly in equity.
assumed or incurred at the date of acquisition.
g Foreign currency translation v Other intangible assets Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling, Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are carried The results of the subsidiaries acquired are included in the which is the Groups presentational currency.
Transactions in at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment.
consolidated financial statements from the acquisition date.
foreign currencies are translated into the respective functional currencies of Group companies at the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and 90 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 9 91 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued ii Calculation of recoverable amount h Intangible assets continued The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is calculated as the vi Amortisation value-in-use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed or the Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to net selling price, if greater.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU group of CGUs useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
being tested for evidence of impairment.
This is done using a preIntangible assets other than goodwill are amortised from the tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time date they are available for use.
value of money, and the country-specific risks for which the cash flows have not been adjusted.
For an asset that does not generate The estimated useful lives are as follows: largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Intellectual property Up to 20 years Computer software 3-5 years iii Reversals of impairment Customer relationships 5-15 years Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been i Property, plant and equipment and other investments a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the depreciation and impairment losses.
assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant if no impairment loss had been recognised.
and equipment, and major components that are accounted for k Derivative financial instruments separately or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest shorter.
rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, The estimated useful lives are as follows: currency and commodity risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-50 years The Group has a policy not to, and does not, undertake any Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 2-30 years speculative activity in these instruments.
including IT hardware Motor vehicles 3-5 years Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and Other investments consist of available for sale investments in are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried unquoted equity and debt securities which are carried at cost, as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the less any impairment, and restricted cash.
Gains or losses arising on the sale of surplus property assets are Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when recorded through operating profit before exceptional items.
For designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when further information on current year gains or losses, see note 26. the financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the j Impairment underlying risk.
The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, including tangible For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: and intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the If any such indicators exist, the assets recoverable amount is fair value of a recognised asset or liability: estimated.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash same time, regardless of the presence of an impairment flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with indicator.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the either a statement of financial position item or a highly carrying amount of an asset, collection of assets or its CGU probable forecast transaction: or exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are hedges of the net investment in a foreign entity.
recognised in the income statement.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives i Cash generating units designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the For the purposes of impairment testing, each segment, split by hedging relationship as follows: process, is a separate CGU.
Impairment testing of property, plant and equipment and other intangibles is carried out at an individual Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is CGU level.
Goodwill impairment testing is carried out based on adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged regional groupings of CGUs as illustrated in note 10, as this is and the derivative is remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses from the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal both the hedged item and the fair value of derivatives are taken to management purposes.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
92 92 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued ii Calculation of recoverable amount 1.
Significant accounting policies continued o Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash h Intangible assets continued k Derivative financial instruments continued The recoverable amount of the Groups assets is calculated as the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
vi Amortisation value-in-use of the CGU to which the assets are attributed or the Cash flow hedges: the effective portion of the gain or loss on Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral Amortisation of intangible assets excluding goodwill is charged to the hedging instrument is recognised directly in equity, while the net selling price, if greater.
Value-in-use is calculated by discounting part of the Groups cash management are included as a component the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated the cash flows expected to be generated by the CGU group of CGUs ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of useful lives of intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite.
taken to equity are transferred to the income statement in the being tested for evidence of impairment.
This is done using a precash flows.
Cash and cash equivalents are stated at amortised cost.
Intangible assets other than goodwill are amortised from the tax discount rate that reflects the current assessment of the time same period during which the hedged transaction affects profit or Cash subject to contractual restrictions on use by the Group is date they are available for use.
loss, such as when a forecast sale or purchase occurs.
Where the value of money, and the country-specific risks for which the cash excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated flows have not been adjusted.
For an asset that does not generate hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or liability, the The estimated useful lives are as follows: financial statements and is presented within other investments in amounts taken to equity are transferred to the initial carrying largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is the consolidated statement of financial position.
Restricted cash determined for the CGU to which the asset belongs.
amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
Intellectual property Up to 20 years is stated at amortised cost.
Computer software 3-5 years iii Reversals of impairment If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised p Borrowings Customer relationships 5-15 years without replacement or roll-over, the hedged transaction ceases Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
In respect Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, less attributable of other assets, an impairment loss is reversed if there has been to be highly probable, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, i Property, plant and equipment and other investments transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interestamounts previously recognised in equity remain in equity until a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost unless designated amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the the forecast transaction occurs and are transferred to the income depreciation and impairment losses.
in a fair value hedge relationship, with borrowing costs being statement or to the initial carrying amount of a non-financial asset assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement using Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, or liability as above.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected the effective interest method.
basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of property, plant to occur, amounts previously recognised in equity are transferred if no impairment loss had been recognised.
and equipment, and major components that are accounted for to the income statement.
At the reporting date, accrued interest is recorded separately k Derivative financial instruments separately or in the case of leased assets, the lease period, if from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments, primarily interest Hedges of net investment in a foreign entity: the effective portion shorter.
rate, currency and commodity swaps, to manage interest rate, of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly q Employee benefits The estimated useful lives are as follows: currency and commodity risks associated with the Groups in equity, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income i Defined contribution schemes underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Amounts taken to equity are transferred to the income Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are Freehold and long leasehold properties 10-50 years The Group has a policy not to, and does not, undertake any statement when the foreign entity is sold.
recognised as an employee benefit expense within personnel Plant and equipment, fixtures and fittings 2-30 years speculative activity in these instruments.
expenses in the income statement, as incurred.
including IT hardware Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of all Motor vehicles 3-5 years Such derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair other derivatives are taken to the income statement.
These may ii Defined benefit schemes arise from derivatives for which hedge accounting is not applied value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and The Groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension Other investments consist of available for sale investments in are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
Derivatives are carried because they are not effective as hedging instruments.
schemes is calculated separately for each scheme by estimating unquoted equity and debt securities which are carried at cost, as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in less any impairment, and restricted cash.
The net present value of the expected future payments under fair value is negative.
return for their service in the current and prior periods: that options over interests held by non-controlling interests in the Gains or losses arising on the sale of surplus property assets are benefit is discounted to its present value amount and recognised Derivative financial instruments are accounted for as hedges when Groups subsidiaries is shown as a financial liability.
At the end of recorded through operating profit before exceptional items.
For in the income statement within personnel expenses: a each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any designated as hedges at the inception of the contract and when further information on current year gains or losses, see note 26. corresponding liability for all future benefits is established the financial instruments provide an effective hedge of the changes recognised in profit or loss for the period.
on the statement of financial position and the fair value of any j Impairment underlying risk.
l Treasury shares schemes assets is deducted.
The carrying amounts of the Groups assets, including tangible When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: and intangible non-current assets, are reviewed at each reporting The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable date to determine whether there are any indicators of impairment.
fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the costs, is recognised as a change in equity.
Repurchased shares If any such indicators exist, the assets recoverable amount is fair value of a recognised asset or liability: duration of the schemes obligations.
The calculation is performed are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction estimated.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually at the by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
Actuarial cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash from total equity.
same time, regardless of the presence of an impairment gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement flows that is attributable to a particular risk associated with m Trade and other receivables indicator.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the of comprehensive income.
either a statement of financial position item or a highly Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less carrying amount of an asset, collection of assets or its CGU probable forecast transaction: or iii Share-based payment transactions impairment provisions.
The Group operates equity-settled share-based compensation recognised in the income statement.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
i Cash generating units for the grant of the options is recognised within personnel designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary For the purposes of impairment testing, each segment, split by expenses, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period hedging relationship as follows: course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and process, is a separate CGU.
Impairment testing of property, plant that the employees unconditionally become entitled to the awards.
The cost of inventories is based on a weighted and equipment and other intangibles is carried out at an individual The fair value of the options granted is measured using a stochastic Fair value hedges: the carrying amount of the hedged item is average cost or first-in first-out basis and includes expenditure CGU level.
Goodwill impairment testing is carried out based on model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which adjusted for gains or losses attributable to the risk being hedged incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their regional groupings of CGUs as illustrated in note 10, as this is the options were granted.
The total amount to be expensed over and the derivative is remeasured at fair value.
Gains and losses from existing location and condition.
In the case of manufactured the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of both the hedged item and the fair value of derivatives are taken to inventories and work in progress, cost includes an appropriate management purposes.
the options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market the income statement.
The Group discontinues fair value hedge share of overheads based on normal operating capacity.
accounting if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge At each reporting date, the entity revises its estimates of the accounting or the Group revokes the designation.
number of options that are expected to become exercisable.
It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in the income statement, and a corresponding adjustment to equity.
com 93 93 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability r Provisions method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The tax effect of as a result of a past event, a reliable estimate can be made of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with the amount of the obligation and it is probable that an outflow respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect business combination or in a manner that initially impacts is material.
accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating to investment in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees to the s Trade and other payables extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
and the Group is able to control the reversal of such temporary t Leases differences.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the i Finance leases expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value substantively enacted at the reporting date.
and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement probable that future taxable profits will be available against which on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will charged to the income statement so that a constant periodic rate be realised.
of interest is recognised on the outstanding balance of the liability.
v Exceptional items ii Operating leases Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a size or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a Group, are classified and disclosed as exceptional items.
Such items include business disposals, restructuring and u Taxation optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and impairments.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which w Non-GAAP performance measures case it is recognised in equity.
In the reporting of financial information, the Group has adopted certain non-GAAP measures of historical or future financial Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income performance, position or cash flows other than those defined or for the year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction at the specified under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Non-GAAP measures are either not defined by IFRS or are adjusted IFRS figures, and therefore may not be directly comparable with The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different other companies reported non-GAAP measures, including those in jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the the Groups industry.
appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the Group Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and are recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
information available and where the anticipated liability is both Details of the Groups non-GAAP performance measures are probable and estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current included in note 32. when the Group expects to settle the liability within 12 months with the remainder as non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued are included in income taxes in both the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of financial position.
Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which the final determination is made.
94 94 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Significant accounting policies continued Deferred tax is provided for using the balance sheet liability 1.
Significant accounting policies continued ii Taxation r Provisions x Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimates method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying The Groups tax payable on profits is determined based on A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes The application of the Groups accounting policies requires tax laws and regulations that apply in each of the numerous when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation management to make estimates and assumptions.
These and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The tax effect of jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
The Group is required to as a result of a past event, a reliable estimate can be made of certain temporary differences is not recognised, principally with estimates and assumptions affect the reported assets and liabilities exercise judgement in determining income tax provisions, along the amount of the obligation and it is probable that an outflow and financial results of the Group.
Actual outcomes could differ respect to goodwill: temporary differences arising on the initial with the recognition of deferred tax assets liabilities.
While the of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
recognition of assets or liabilities other than those arising in a from the estimates and assumptions used.
Group aims to ensure that estimates recorded are accurate, Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect business combination or in a manner that initially impacts the actual amounts could be different from those expected.
The Groups key sources of estimates are as detailed below.
accounting or taxable profit : and temporary differences relating to See note 7 for additional information.
investment in subsidiaries and equity accounted investees to the s Trade and other payables iii Exceptional items extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future i Pensions and other employee benefits Trade and other payables are stated at their cost.
In applying the exceptional items accounting policy to items of and the Group is able to control the reversal of such temporary IAS 19 Employee Benefits Revised 2011 requires the Group income and expenditure, the Group takes account of their t Leases differences.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the to make assumptions including, but not limited to, rates of origination, as well as considering similar items in prior years to i Finance leases expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying inflation, discount rates and life expectancies.
The use of different ensure consistency and appropriate presentation.
See note 4 Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or assumptions, in any of the above calculations, could have a material for additional information.
Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of their fair value substantively enacted at the reporting date.
effect on the accounting values of the relevant statement of and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
financial position assets and liabilities which could also result in A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the income statement a change to the cost of such liabilities as recognised in profit or probable that future taxable profits will be available against which on the same basis as owned assets.
Leasing payments are treated loss over time.
These assumptions are subject to periodic review.
the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the as consisting of capital and interest elements and the interest is See note 24 for additional information including sensitivity analysis.
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will charged to the income statement so that a constant periodic rate be realised.
y IFRS standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective of interest is recognised on the outstanding balance of the liability.
The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC have issued v Exceptional items ii Operating leases new standards and interpretations with an effective date after the date of these financial statements.
Items of income or expenditure that are significant by their nature, Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement on a Effective date size or incidence, and for which separate presentation would assist straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS IAS financial year ending in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 30 April 2018 Group, are classified and disclosed as exceptional items.
IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses Amendments to IAS 12 30 April 2018 Such items include business disposals, restructuring and u Taxation IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 30 April 2019 optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 30 April 2019 impairments.
Income tax is recognised in profit or loss except to the IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions 30 April 2019 extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which w Non-GAAP performance measures Amendments to IFRS 2 case it is recognised in equity.
In the reporting of financial information, the Group has adopted IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration 30 April 2019 certain non-GAAP measures of historical or future financial IFRS 16 Leases 30 April 2020 Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income performance, position or cash flows other than those defined or for the year, using tax rates enacted in each jurisdiction at the IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and concerns the classification and specified under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
reporting date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, the fide-recognition of financial instruments and hedge accounting.
Non-GAAP measures are either not defined by IFRS or are adjusted assessment will be carried out before implementation, but the anticipated impact on the Group is not expected to be material.
IFRS figures, and therefore may not be directly comparable with The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number of different IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers replaces IAS 18 Revenue and related interpretations, introducing a single, principlesother companies reported non-GAAP measures, including those in jurisdictions and judgement is required in determining the based approach to the recognition and measurement of revenue from all contracts with customers.
The new approach requires the Groups industry.
appropriate provision for transactions where the ultimate tax identification of performance obligations in a contract and revenue to be recognised when or as those performance obligations are determination is uncertain.
In such circumstances, the Group Non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to, and are satisfied, as well as additional disclosure.
The Group is currently in the process of completing its review of the potential impact of adopting recognises liabilities for anticipated taxes based on the best not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
For the majority of the Groups contracts, the performance obligation is the delivery of goods, which under IFRS 15 would be information available and where the anticipated liability is both recognised at a single point of time, on delivery of goods, consistent with the current accounting treatment under IAS 18.
Whilst the Group Details of the Groups non-GAAP performance measures are probable and estimable.
Such liabilities are classified as current is yet to complete its assessment of the impact of IFRS 15 on other revenue streams of the business and other implications, managements included in note 32. when the Group expects to settle the liability within 12 months with expectations are that the impact will not be material.
The necessary processes to capture all of the adjustments and any additional the remainder as non-current.
Any interest and penalties accrued disclosures required under IFRS 15 will be put into place during 2017 18. are included in income taxes in both the consolidated income IFRS 16 Leases prescribes a single lessee accounting model that requires the recognition of a right of use asset and corresponding liability statement and the consolidated statement of financial position.
for all leases with terms over 12 months unless the underlying asset is of low value.
The liability is initially measured at the present value of Where the final outcome of such matters differs from the amount future lease payments for the lease term.
Depreciation of right of use assets, and interest on lease liabilities is recognised in profit and loss recorded, any differences may impact the income tax and deferred over the lease term.
In the cash flow statement, the total amount of cash paid is separated into a principal portion within financing tax provisions in the period in which the final determination is made.
activities and an interest portion within operating activities in the cash flow statement.
The implementation of IFRS 16 is likely to have a significant impact on the Group, with the transition work to be undertaken in 2017 18.
The Group does not anticipate that the adoption of the remaining standards and interpretations that are effective for the year ending 30 April 2018 will have a material effect on its financial statements.
Of these standards, only IFRS 15 and IFRS 9 have currently been endorsed by the EU.
com 95 95 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segment reporting Operating segments IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of performance and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8.
Further details of these segments are given in the Strategic Report on page 31.
Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
Central administration costs are allocated to the individual segments on a consistent basis year on year.
All assets and liabilities have been analysed by segment, except for items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current asset investments.
Debt and associated interest are managed at a Group level and therefore have not been allocated across the segments.
DCH and Central Total Western Northern Europe continuing UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations Year ended 30 April 2017 Note m m m m m m External revenue 962 1,264 989 1,239 327 4,781 EBITDA 122 144 112 165 48 591 Depreciation 11 28 40 30 40 10 148 1 Adjusted operating profit 94 104 82 125 38 443 Unallocated items: Amortisation 10 65 Exceptional items 4 62 Total operating profit continuing operations 316 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Segment assets 823 1,062 951 1,170 215 4,221 Unallocated items: Equity accounted investment and other investments 12 Derivative financial instruments 32 Cash and cash equivalents 139 Tax 89 Total assets 4,493 Segment liabilities 292 533 192 299 65 1,381 Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 1,299 Derivative financial instruments 24 Tax 253 Employee benefits 181 Total liabilities 3,138 Capital expenditure 53 57 38 81 15 244 1 Adjusted to exclude amortisation and exceptional items.
96 96 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Segment reporting continued DCH and Central Total Operating segments Western Northern Europe continuing IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be identified on the same basis as is used internally for the review of UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations performance and allocation of resources by the Group Chief Executive who is the Chief Operating Decision Maker as defined by IFRS 8.
Year ended 30 April 2016 Note m m m m m m Further details of these segments are given in the Strategic Report on page 31.
External revenue 864 1,044 853 1,022 283 4,066 EBITDA 112 113 118 122 41 506 Segment results include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis.
All assets and liabilities have been analysed Depreciation 11 27 36 25 30 9 127 1 by segment, except for items of a financing nature, taxation balances, employee benefit liabilities and current and non-current asset Adjusted operating profit 85 77 93 92 32 379 investments.
Unallocated items: Amortisation 10 51 DCH and Central Total Western Northern Europe continuing Exceptional items 4 78 UK Europe Europe and Italy Plastics operations Total operating profit continuing operations 250 Year ended 30 April 2017 Note m m m m m m External revenue 962 1,264 989 1,239 327 4,781 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities EBITDA 122 144 112 165 48 591 Segment assets 747 959 899 1,031 175 3,811 Depreciation 11 28 40 30 40 10 148 1 Unallocated items: Adjusted operating profit 94 104 82 125 38 443 Equity accounted investment and other investments 7 Unallocated items: Derivative financial instruments 57 Amortisation 10 65 Cash and cash equivalents 134 Exceptional items 4 62 Tax 69 Total operating profit continuing operations 316 Total assets 4,078 Analysis of total assets and total liabilities Segment liabilities 227 438 170 256 58 1,149 Segment assets 823 1,062 951 1,170 215 4,221 Unallocated items: Unallocated items: Borrowings and accrued interest 1,295 Equity accounted investment and other investments 12 Derivative financial instruments 56 Derivative financial instruments 32 Tax 250 Cash and cash equivalents 139 Employee benefits 188 Tax 89 Total liabilities 2,938 Total assets 4,493 Capital expenditure 53 51 42 72 11 229 Segment liabilities 292 533 192 299 65 1,381 Unallocated items: 1 Adjusted to exclude amortisation and exceptional items.
Borrowings and accrued interest 1,299 Geographical areas Derivative financial instruments 24 In presenting information by geographical area, external revenue is based on the geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets Tax 253 are based on the geographical location of assets and exclude investments, deferred tax assets, derivative financial instruments and Employee benefits 181 intangible assets which are monitored at the operating segment level, not at a country level.
Total liabilities 3,138 External revenue Non-current assets Capital expenditure 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Capital expenditure 53 57 38 81 15 244 Continuing operations m m m m m m UK 932 813 397 382 82 54 1 Adjusted to exclude amortisation and exceptional items.
com 97 97 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Operating profit 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Operating costs Cost of sales 2,409 2,050 Other production costs 911 772 Distribution 331 284 Administrative expenses 744 673 4,395 3,779 Details of exceptional items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Depreciation owned assets 143 124 leased assets 5 3 Amortisation of intangible assets 65 51 Profit on sale of non-current assets 14 12 Hire of plant and machinery 18 14 Other operating lease rentals 28 22 Research and development 7 4 2017 2016 UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Auditors remuneration m m m m m m Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 accounts Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.8 1.9 2.7 0.6 1.5 2.1 Total audit fees 0.9 1.9 2.8 0.7 1.5 2.2 Corporate finance services 0.2 0.2 Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 Tax and other services 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.2 Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.5 Total Auditors remuneration 1.3 2.0 3.3 1.2 1.5 2.7 Non-audit fees do not include costs in respect of the proposed acquisition of Indevco Management Resources Inc. which were incurred after the year end and are estimated to be in the region of 1.2m in total.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section on pages 61 to 63 and includes an explanation of how the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the external Auditor.
98 98 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Exceptional items 2017 2016 Items are presented as exceptional in the financial statements where they are significant items of financial performance that the Directors Continuing operations m m consider should be separately disclosed to assist in the understanding of the trading and financial results of the Group.
Such items include Operating costs business disposals, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs, and impairments.
Cost of sales 2,409 2,050 2017 2016 Other production costs 911 772 Continuing operations m m Distribution 331 284 Acquisition related costs 7 9 Administrative expenses 744 673 Gains on acquisitions and disposals 2 23 4,395 3,779 Acquisitions and disposals 5 14 Integration costs 17 12 Details of exceptional items included in operating profit are set out in note 4.
Other restructuring costs 26 50 Operating profit is stated after charging crediting the following: Impairment of assets 5 21 2017 2016 Other 9 9 Continuing operations m m Total pre-tax exceptional items recognised in operating profit 62 78 Depreciation owned assets 143 124 Income tax credit on exceptional items 13 27 leased assets 5 3 Exceptional finance cost 1 Amortisation of intangible assets 65 51 Total post-tax exceptional items 49 52 Profit on sale of non-current assets 14 12 2016 17 Hire of plant and machinery 18 14 Acquisition costs of 7m relate to professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and directly attributable internal salary costs relating to Other operating lease rentals 28 22 the review and execution of potential deals, and deals completed during the year, including the acquisition of Creo, Deku-Pack, Gopaca, P&I Research and development 7 4 Display and Parish.
Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to ensure appropriate health and safety standards are operating and to achieve 2017 2016 cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the current year and previous financial year.
They include directly attributable internal UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Auditors remuneration m m m m m m salary costs.
Fees payable to the Companys Auditor for audit of the Companys annual The 26m other restructuring costs includes reorganisation and restructuring in DCH and Northern Europe 11m, the UK 6m, 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 accounts Western Europe 4m and Plastics 2m.
Fees payable to the Companys Auditor and their associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries, pursuant to legislation 0.8 1.9 2.7 0.6 1.5 2.1 Other exceptional items of 9m principally relate to infrastructure optimisation and efficiency projects.
Total audit fees 0.9 1.9 2.8 0.7 1.5 2.2 The income tax credit on exceptional items in the year ended 30 April 2017 includes an increase in tax provisions arising from the Corporate finance services 0.2 0.2 acquisition of a business 1m, and the tax effect at the local applicable tax rate of exceptional items that are subject to tax.
The Audit related assurance services 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 exceptional items in the year give rise to a net income tax effect, with the exception of non-deductible deal related advisory fees Tax and other services 0.3 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.2 in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
Total non-audit fees 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.5 2015 16 Total Auditors remuneration 1.3 2.0 3.3 1.2 1.5 2.7 Acquisition costs consist of professional advisory, legal and consultancy fees and directly attributable internal salary costs relating to the review and execution of potential deals, and deals completed during the year, including the acquisition of Duropack and Lantero.
Non-audit fees do not include costs in respect of the proposed acquisition of Indevco Management Resources Inc. which were incurred after the year end and are estimated to be in the region of 1.2m in total.
Gains on acquisitions and disposals comprise the profit on sale of StePac of 9m, with the majority of the remainder relating to a 10m gain on the step acquisition of the Lantero business where previously the Group held an associate interest.
A description of the work of the Audit Committee is set out in the corporate governance section on pages 61 to 63 and includes an explanation of how the external Auditors objectivity and independence are safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the Integration costs relate to integration projects underway to achieve cost synergies from the acquisitions made in the year, including external Auditor.
Of the 50m other restructuring costs in the year, 10m relates to the closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK, announced in October 2015 after the completion of a consultation process, with the majority of the remainder relating to further reorganisation and restructuring in the UK 10m, DCH and Northern Europe 17m and Western Europe 7m.
Impairment of assets is primarily associated with impairment arising from the announced closure of the Wansbrough paper mill in the UK 20m.
Other exceptional items principally relate to infrastructure optimisation and efficiency projects, site remediation costs and the continuing costs of UK centralisation projects.
The income tax credit on exceptional items in the year ended 30 April 2016 includes an amount received from the previous owners of an acquired business under the tax indemnity 3m, the reversal of tax provisions arising from the acquisition of a business 2m, and the tax effect at the local applicable tax rate of exceptional items that are subject to tax.
The exceptional items in the year give rise to a net income tax effect, with the exception of gains or losses on certain disposals which are not subject to tax under local rules, and nondeductible deal related advisory fees in relation to acquisitions and disposals.
com 99 99 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Finance income and costs 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Interest income from financial assets 1 1 Finance income 1 1 Interest on borrowings and overdrafts 46 38 Other 5 5 Finance costs 51 43 6.
Personnel expenses 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Wages and salaries 825 705 Social security costs 169 148 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 37 30 Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 24 5 6 Share-based payment expense note 25 10 6 Personnel expenses 1,046 895 2017 2016 Average number of employees Number Number UK 5,261 5,277 Western Europe 6,853 6,844 DCH and Northern Europe 4,701 4,860 Central Europe and Italy 8,370 8,585 Rest of the World 489 499 Average number of employees 25,674 26,065 7.
Income tax expense 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Current tax expense Current year 99 84 Adjustment in respect of prior years 9 6 90 78 Deferred tax credit Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18 23 Reduction in tax rates 3 4 Adjustment in respect of prior years 6 2 21 17 Total income tax expense before exceptional items 69 61 Current and deferred tax relating to exceptional items note 4 13 27 Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 56 34 The tax credit on amortisation was 16m 2015 16: 12m.
10 100 0 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Income tax expense continued 2017 2016 The reconciliation of the actual tax charge to that at the domestic corporation tax rate is as follows: Continuing operations m m 2017 2016 Interest income from financial assets 1 1 m m Finance income 1 1 Profit before income tax 264 201 Interest on borrowings and overdrafts 46 38 Share of profit loss of equity accounted investment, net of tax 3 1 Other 5 5 Profit before tax and share of profit loss of equity accounted investment, net of tax 261 202 Finance costs 51 43 Income tax at the domestic corporation tax rate of 19.92% 2015 16: 20.00% 52 40 6.
Personnel expenses Effect of additional taxes and tax rates in overseas jurisdictions 30 15 2017 2016 Additional items deductible for tax purposes 18 16 Continuing operations m m Non-deductible expenses 5 12 Wages and salaries 825 705 Non-taxable gains 1 3 Social security costs 169 148 Release of prior year provisions in relation to acquired businesses 4 11 Contributions to defined contribution pension plans 37 30 Reimbursement under tax indemnity in relation to acquired businesses 3 Service costs for defined benefit schemes note 24 5 6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 11 4 Share-based payment expense note 25 10 6 Effect of change in corporation tax rates 3 4 Personnel expenses 1,046 895 Income tax expense total Group 56 34 2017 2016 The Groups effective tax rate, excluding amortisation, exceptional items and share of result from equity accounted investment was Average number of employees Number Number 22% 2015 16: 22%.
UK 5,261 5,277 The Groups future tax charge could be affected by several factors including: tax reform in countries around the world, arising from the Western Europe 6,853 6,844 implementation of the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting actions and European Commission initiatives.
In addition, corporate DCH and Northern Europe 4,701 4,860 acquisitions and disposals and the resolution of any ongoing tax enquiries could also impact the future tax charge.
Central Europe and Italy 8,370 8,585 Rest of the World 489 499 Included within the consolidated balance sheet at 30 April 2017 are current tax liabilities of 120m 30 April 2016: 109m, which includes a provision recognised primarily in relation to transfer pricing, based on managements interpretation of country specific tax legislation and Average number of employees 25,674 26,065 the likely outcome of any ongoing enquiries.
The resolution of any tax positions taken by the Group can take considerable time to conclude and judgement is required to predict the outcome.
Income tax expense 2017 2016 The Finance Act 2016 included a 1% reduction in the main UK Corporation tax rate to 17% which was substantively enacted on 15 Continuing operations m m September 2016.
Accordingly, the rate applied to UK deferred tax assets and liabilities is 17% 2015 16: 18%.
There has been no Current tax expense further indication of additional changes to the rate of corporation tax from 17%.
Current year 99 84 Tax on other comprehensive income and equity Adjustment in respect of prior years 9 6 Tax Tax 90 78 credit credit Deferred tax credit Gross charge Net Gross charge Net 2017 2017 2017 2016 2016 2016 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 18 23 m m m m m m Reduction in tax rates 3 4 Actuarial loss gain on employee benefits 1 3 4 11 5 6 Adjustment in respect of prior years 6 2 Foreign currency translation differences 71 37 108 49 4 53 21 17 Movements in cash flow hedges 9 2 7 2 2 Total income tax expense before exceptional items 69 61 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investment 1 1 Current and deferred tax relating to exceptional items note 4 13 27 Other comprehensive income expense Total income tax expense in the income statement from continuing operations 56 34 for the year, net of tax 80 32 112 58 1 57 Issue of share capital 13 13 1 1 The tax credit on amortisation was 16m 2015 16: 12m.
Employee share trust 6 6 7 7 Acquisition of subsidiary with non-controlling interests 4 4 Share-based payment expense 10 1 9 6 2 8 Dividends paid to Group shareholders 121 121 108 108 Other comprehensive expense income and changes in equity 24 31 7 46 1 45 100 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 10 101 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 2017 2016 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 209m 167m Weighted average number of ordinary shares 945m 943m Basic earnings per share 22.1p 17.7p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 2017 2016 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 209m 167m Weighted average number of ordinary shares 945m 943m Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 6m 11m Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 951m 954m Diluted earnings per share 22.0p 17.5p The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held as treasury shares during the year of 2m 2015 16: 1m.
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets, better explains the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows: 2017 2016 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence m m per share per share per share per share Basic earnings 209 22.1p 22.0p 167 17.7p 17.5p Add back amortisation, after tax 49 5.2p 5.1p 39 4.2p 4.1p Add back exceptional items, after tax 49 5.2p 5.2p 52 5.5p 5.4p Adjusted earnings 307 32.5p 32.3p 258 27.4p 27.0p 9.
Dividends proposed and paid 2017 2016 Pence Pence per share m per share m 2015 16 interim dividend paid 4.0p 38 2015 16 final dividend paid 8.8p 83 2016 17 interim dividend paid 4.6p 44 2016 17 final dividend proposed 10.6p 100 2017 2016 m m Paid during the year 121 108 The interim dividend in respect of 2016 17 of 4.6 pence per share 44m was paid after the year end on 2 May 2017.
The 2015 16 interim and final dividends were paid during the 2016 17 financial year.
A final dividend in respect of 2016 17 of 10.6 pence per share 100m has been proposed by the Directors after the reporting date.
10 102 2 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Intangible assets Intellectual Customer Basic earnings per share from continuing operations Goodwill Software property related Other Total 2017 2016 m m m m m m Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 209m 167m Cost Weighted average number of ordinary shares 945m 943m At 1 May 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 Basic earnings per share 22.1p 17.7p Acquisitions 27 1 24 52 Additions 10 1 20 31 Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 2017 2016 Disposals 5 5 Profit from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders 209m 167m Transfers 22 22 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 945m 943m Currency translation 42 5 3 33 5 88 Potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements 6m 11m At 30 April 2017 782 83 28 540 69 1,502 Weighted average number of ordinary shares diluted 951m 954m Amortisation and impairment Diluted earnings per share 22.0p 17.5p At 1 May 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 The number of shares excludes the weighted average number of the Companys own shares held as treasury shares during the year of 2m Amortisation 11 2 50 2 65 2015 16: 1m.
Disposals 5 5 Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations Currency translation 1 4 2 12 1 20 The Directors believe that the presentation of an adjusted earnings per share, being the basic earnings per share adjusted for exceptional At 30 April 2017 27 42 19 218 18 324 items and amortisation of intangible assets, better explains the underlying performance of the Group.
A reconciliation of basic to adjusted earnings per share is as follows: Carrying amount At 1 May 2016 684 18 9 327 51 1,089 2017 2016 At 30 April 2017 755 41 9 322 51 1,178 Basic Diluted Basic Diluted pence pence pence pence m m per share per share per share per share Intellectual Customer Basic earnings 209 22.1p 22.0p 167 17.7p 17.5p Goodwill Software property related Other Total Add back amortisation, after tax 49 5.2p 5.1p 39 4.2p 4.1p m m m m m m Add back exceptional items, after tax 49 5.2p 5.2p 52 5.5p 5.4p Cost Adjusted earnings 307 32.5p 32.3p 258 27.4p 27.0p At 1 May 2015 588 38 22 340 48 1,036 Acquisitions 83 2 113 1 199 9.
Dividends proposed and paid Additions 2 1 18 21 2017 2016 Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 Pence Pence Disposals 1 1 per share m per share m Reclassification 7 1 5 3 2015 16 interim dividend paid 4.0p 38 Currency translation 36 2 30 4 72 2015 16 final dividend paid 8.8p 83 At 30 April 2016 710 50 24 483 66 1,333 2016 17 interim dividend paid 4.6p 44 Amortisation and impairment 2016 17 final dividend proposed 10.6p 100 At 1 May 2015 25 25 13 104 14 181 Amortisation 6 2 43 51 2017 2016 Disposals 1 1 m m Currency translation 1 2 9 1 13 Paid during the year 121 108 At 30 April 2016 26 32 15 156 15 244 The interim dividend in respect of 2016 17 of 4.6 pence per share 44m was paid after the year end on 2 May 2017.
A final dividend in respect of 2016 17 of 10.6 pence per share 100m has Carrying amount been proposed by the Directors after the reporting date.
com 1 10 03 3 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill The CGU groups below represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger than the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The carrying values of goodwill are split between the CGU groups as follows: 2017 2016 m m UK 167 159 Western Europe 182 160 DCH and Northern Europe 220 197 Central Europe and Italy 124 121 Plastics 62 47 Total goodwill 755 684 Goodwill impairment tests key assumptions and methodology The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended 30 April 2017 as the recoverable amount of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2018 and are based upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature of the business: the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon historic performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the key operating assumptions as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure required to generate the terminal cash flows: cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2019 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the CGU groups based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database.
This resulted in an average growth rate for the total Group of 1.5%: and the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2015 16: 9.5%, which is a basic WACC of 8.8% plus a blended country risk premium of 0.7%.
The discount rate is a function of the cost of debt and equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year German Bund yields 77% weighting and 30 year UK gilts 23% weighting, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to 15.7%, which reflects the increased risk of investing in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the market as a whole.
This Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not reflected in the cash flow projections.
Goodwill impairment tests sensitivities The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst the Directors believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key assumptions were adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
To support their assertions, the Directors have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above situations.
Key sensitivities tested included future growth and discount rates.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there would still be adequate headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
Based on this analysis the Directors believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would not cause the carrying value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Therefore at 30 April 2017 no impairment charge is required against the carrying value of goodwill.
10 104 4 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Fixtures Under Goodwill buildings equipment and fittings construction Total The CGU groups below represent the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and are not larger m m m m m than the operating segments determined in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The carrying values of goodwill are split between Cost the CGU groups as follows: At 1 May 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 2017 2016 Acquisitions 11 7 3 21 m m Additions 17 70 7 121 215 UK 167 159 Adjustment relating to business combination in prior year 3 3 Western Europe 182 160 Disposals 15 52 3 5 75 DCH and Northern Europe 220 197 Transfers 25 89 5 119 Currency translation 41 130 5 8 184 Central Europe and Italy 124 121 At 30 April 2017 772 2,254 73 162 3,261 Plastics 62 47 Depreciation and impairment Total goodwill 755 684 At 1 May 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 Goodwill impairment tests key assumptions and methodology Depreciation charge 22 120 6 148 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill may be impaired.
The Impairment 2 1 3 recoverable amounts of the groups of CGUs are determined from value-in-use calculations.
No impairment arose in the year ended Disposals 14 50 2 66 30 April 2017 as the recoverable amount of the groups of CGUs, based on value-in-use calculations, exceeded the carrying amounts.
Currency translation 9 58 2 69 At 30 April 2017 155 1,208 32 1,395 The key assumptions in the value-in-use calculations are: the cash flow forecasts have been derived from the most recent Board approved budget for the year ending 30 April 2018 and are Carrying amount based upon past performance, known changes and expectations of current market conditions, taking into account the cyclical nature At 1 May 2016 557 934 30 157 1,678 of the business: At 30 April 2017 617 1,046 41 162 1,866 the sales volume and price assumptions underlying the cash flow forecasts are the Directors estimates of likely future changes based upon historic performance and the current economic outlooks for the economies in which the Group operates.
These are viewed as the Land and Plant and Fixtures Under key operating assumptions as they determine the Directors approach to margin and cost maintenance: buildings equipment and fittings construction Total m m m m m the cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based upon past experience and include the replacement capital expenditure Cost required to generate the terminal cash flows: At 1 May 2015 559 1,694 41 94 2,388 cash flows beyond the budgeted period 2019 and beyond have been determined using a long-term growth rate specific to each of the Acquisitions 80 114 4 7 205 CGU groups based upon external sources such as the International Monetary Funds World Economic Outlook Database.
This resulted in Additions 14 82 4 120 220 an average growth rate for the total Group of 1.5%: and Adjustment related to business combinations in prior year 3 3 the pre-tax adjusted discount rate is derived from the weighted average cost of capital WACC for the Group of 9.5% 2015 16: 9.5%, Disposals 16 74 2 92 which is a basic WACC of 8.8% plus a blended country risk premium of 0.7%.
The discount rate is a function of the cost of debt and Transfers 18 47 4 69 equity.
The cost of equity is largely based upon the risk free rate for 30 year German Bund yields 77% weighting and 30 year UK gilts Reclassification to from held for sale 3 48 51 23% weighting, adjusted for the relevant country market risk premium, ranging from 0% to 15.7%, which reflects the increased risk of Reclassification 3 3 investing in country specific equities and the relative volatilities of the equity of the Group compared to the market as a whole.
This Currency translation 38 105 5 5 153 Group rate has been adjusted for the risks inherent in the countries in which the CGU group operates that are not reflected in the cash At 30 April 2016 693 2,013 56 157 2,919 flow projections.
Depreciation and impairment At 1 May 2015 104 922 20 1,046 Goodwill impairment tests sensitivities Depreciation charge 19 103 5 127 The value-in-use is based upon anticipated discounted future cash flows and results in significant headroom across all CGU groups.
Whilst Impairment 4 15 19 the Directors believe the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a reduction in the headroom would occur if any of the above key Disposals 3 49 1 53 assumptions were adversely changed.
Factors which could cause an impairment are: Reclassification to from held for sale 3 33 36 significant underperformance relative to the forecast: and Currency translation 9 55 2 66 At 30 April 2016 136 1,079 26 1,241 deteriorations in the economies in which the Group operates.
To support their assertions, the Directors have conducted sensitivity analyses to determine the impact that would result from the above Carrying amount situations.
In these cases, if estimates of future growth were reduced At 1 May 2015 455 772 21 94 1,342 to 0% per annum, or if the estimated discount rates applied to the cash flows were increased by 1%, there would still be adequate At 30 April 2016 557 934 30 157 1,678 headroom to support the carrying value of the assets.
The amounts above include land and buildings held under finance lease agreements.
At 30 April 2017, the carrying amount of property, Based on this analysis the Directors believe that a reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions detailed above would not plant and equipment held under finance leases was 24m 30 April 2016: 21m.
Assets under construction mainly relate to production cause the carrying value of CGU groups to exceed their recoverable amounts.
Therefore at 30 April 2017 no impairment charge is required machines and site improvements being constructed at various sites across the Group.
against the carrying value of goodwill.
com 10 105 5 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Equity accounted investment 2017 2016 m m At 1 May 4 17 Disposal 10 Share of profit loss of associate 3 1 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investment 1 Currency translation 1 2 At 30 April 9 4 Principal equity accounted investment Ownership interest Principal country Nature of business of operation 2017 2016 OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill Rubezhansk Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6% The Group accounts for its investment in Rubezhansk using the equity method as an associate because the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence over the investment due to the Groups equity holdings.
Summary of financial information of associate The financial information below is for the Groups associate on a 100% basis for the year ended 31 December.
2017 2016 m m Current assets 26 24 Non-current assets 40 37 Current liabilities 21 20 Non-current liabilities 17 16 Revenue 108 82 Profit loss after tax 6 2 Other comprehensive income 3 13.
Other investments 2017 2016 m m Other investments 3 3 Total non-current investments 3 3 14.
Inventories 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 219 178 Work in progress 24 20 Finished goods 163 140 406 338 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2017 were 28m 30 April 2016: 29m.
Inventory write-offs in the year totalled 1m 2015 16: 4m.
10 106 6 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m NonNonAt 1 May 4 17 current Current current Current Disposal 10 m m m m Trade receivables 628 598 Share of profit loss of associate 3 1 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investment 1 Provisions for bad and doubtful receivables 37 33 Prepayments and other receivables 3 175 3 131 Currency translation 1 2 At 30 April 9 4 3 766 3 696 Principal equity accounted investment Ownership interest Principal country Of which Of which past due but not impaired Nature of business of operation 2017 2016 neither Net carrying impaired 1 month 13 36 612 More than OJSC Rubezhansk Paper and Packaging Mill Rubezhansk Paper and packaging Ukraine 49.6% 49.6% amount nor past due or less months months months 12 months Trade receivables m m m m m m m The Group accounts for its investment in Rubezhansk using the equity method as an associate because the Group has the ability to At 30 April 2017 591 478 72 25 7 6 3 exercise significant influence over the investment due to the Groups equity holdings.
At 30 April 2016 565 479 55 19 5 4 3 Summary of financial information of associate Movement in bad and doubtful receivables allowance The financial information below is for the Groups associate on a 100% basis for the year ended 31 December.
2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m At 1 May 33 26 Current assets 26 24 Uncollectible amounts written off 3 2 Non-current assets 40 37 Increase decrease in allowance recognised in the income statement 2 1 Current liabilities 21 20 Acquisitions 3 8 Non-current liabilities 17 16 Currency translation 2 2 Revenue 108 82 At 30 April 37 33 Profit loss after tax 6 2 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Groups customer base being large and diverse.
Other comprehensive income 3 Management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
Trade and other payables 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m NonNonOther investments 3 3 current Current current Current Total non-current investments 3 3 m m m m Trade payables 1,012 817 14.
Inventories Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 14 346 8 301 2017 2016 14 1,358 8 1,118 m m Raw materials and consumables 219 178 Work in progress 24 20 Finished goods 163 140 406 338 Inventory provisions at 30 April 2017 were 28m 30 April 2016: 29m.
com 1 10 07 7 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Net debt 2017 2016 m m Non-current liabilities 1,144 1,073 Current liabilities 119 185 Derivative financial instruments 8 19 Net cash and cash equivalents 123 115 Other deposits 40 25 Net debt 1,092 1,099 The movement in net debt is as follows: Foreign exchange, fair Continuing value and At 1 May operations non-cash At 30 April 2016 cash flow Acquisitions movements 2017 m m m m m Cash and cash equivalents 134 8 6 7 139 Overdrafts 19 3 16 Net cash and cash equivalents 115 5 6 7 123 Other deposits 25 14 1 40 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year 1,058 9 3 81 1,133 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year 180 116 9 42 115 Finance leases 20 9 2 2 15 Derivative financial instruments assets 25 40 29 14 liabilities 6 9 9 6 1,214 117 14 104 1,215 Net debt 1,099 112 8 97 1,092 Derivative financial instruments above relate to interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge the Groups borrowings and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
The difference between the amounts shown above and the total derivative financial instrument assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relates to derivative financial instruments that hedge forecast foreign currency transactions and the Groups purchases of energy.
Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of fees incurrent on debt issuance.
Other deposits are included, as these short-term receivables have the characteristics of net debt.
10 108 8 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Net debt 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Bank balances 135 131 Non-current liabilities 1,144 1,073 Short-term deposits 4 3 Current liabilities 119 185 Cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of financial position 139 134 Derivative financial instruments 8 19 Bank overdrafts 16 19 Net cash and cash equivalents 123 115 Net cash and cash equivalents consolidated statement of cash flows 123 115 Other deposits 40 25 Net debt 1,092 1,099 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings The movement in net debt is as follows: 2017 2016 NonNonForeign Current current Total Current current Total exchange, fair m m m m m m Continuing value and 1 At 1 May operations non-cash At 30 April Bank and other loans 100 94 194 115 306 421 2016 cash flow Acquisitions movements 2017 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt m m m m m 2 $95m USD private placement 5.80% coupon August 2016 65 65 Cash and cash equivalents 134 8 6 7 139 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.40% coupon August 2018 50 50 46 46 Overdrafts 19 3 16 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin December 2018 51 51 Net cash and cash equivalents 115 5 6 7 123 60m euro term loan floating EURIBOR margin January 2019 51 51 Other deposits 25 14 1 40 59m euro private placement shelf facility 4.83% coupon August 2020 50 50 46 46 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due after one year 1,058 9 3 81 1,133 $400m USD private placement 4.48% weighted average coupon Interest-bearing loans and borrowings due within one year 180 116 9 42 115 3 15 293 308 272 272 August 2017-2022 Finance leases 20 9 2 2 15 150m euro term loan fixed rate July 2021 126 126 Derivative financial instruments 500m euro medium term note 2.25% coupon September 2022 418 418 388 388 assets 25 40 29 14 Finance lease liabilities 4 11 15 5 15 20 liabilities 6 9 9 6 119 1,144 1,263 185 1,073 1,258 1,214 117 14 104 1,215 1 Drawings under a short-term bank revolving credit facility and other bank loans.
Net debt 1,099 112 8 97 1,092 2 Swapped to floating rate 17m based on six month EURIBOR plus a margin, and fixed rate 41m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Derivative financial instruments above relate to interest rate and cross-currency swaps used to hedge the Groups borrowings and the ratio 3 Swapped to fixed rate 150m and fixed rate 174m using cross-currency interest rate swaps.
The difference between the amounts shown above and the total derivative financial instrument assets and Borrowings are unsecured and, at 30 April 2017, all measured at amortised cost at 30 April 2016 all borrowings were measured at liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position relates to derivative financial instruments that hedge forecast foreign amortised cost, except for 14m of note purchase agreements in a fair value hedge relationship.
currency transactions and the Groups purchases of energy.
The syndicated bank revolving credit facility 800m was extended in May 2015 under its one year extension option, taking maturity to Non-cash movements relate to amortisation of fees incurrent on debt issuance.
Drawdowns under the facility bear interest at a margin over the applicable LIBOR or EURIBOR rate.
There have been no breaches of covenants during the year ended 30 April 2017 in relation to the above loans and borrowings.
Of the total borrowing facilities available to the Group, the undrawn committed facilities available at 30 April were as follows: 2017 2016 m m Expiring between two and five years 705 500 108 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 10 109 9 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued The repayment profile of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, is as follows: 2017 1 year 12 25 More than or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fixed rate 19 54 281 627 981 Floating rate 100 101 81 282 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 119 155 362 627 1,263 2016 1 year 12 25 More than or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fixed rate 58 20 155 592 825 Floating rate 127 2 303 1 433 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 185 22 458 593 1,258 The Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, are denominated in the following currencies: 2017 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fixed rate 156 811 14 981 Floating rate 12 203 35 32 282 168 1,014 35 46 1,263 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts Floating rate 15 80 3 25 123 Net borrowings at 30 April 2017 153 934 32 21 1,140 2016 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fixed rate 194 630 1 825 Floating rate 15 315 48 55 433 209 945 48 56 1,258 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts Floating rate 93 3 19 115 Net borrowings at 30 April 2016 209 852 45 37 1,143 At 30 April 2017, 80% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, were denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Groups European operations 30 April 2016: 75%.
Interest rates on floating rate borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR or base rates.
Finance lease liabilities 2017 2016 Present Present Future value of Future value minimum minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Less than one year 4 4 5 5 Between one and five years 10 10 14 1 13 More than five years 1 1 2 2 Finance lease liabilities 15 15 21 1 20 1 110 10 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings continued 20.
Financial instruments The repayment profile of the Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, is as follows: The Groups activities expose the Group to a number of key risks which have the potential to affect its ability to achieve its business 2017 objectives.
A summary of the Groups key financial risks and the policies and objectives in place to manage these risks is set out in the Financial Review and Principal Risk sections of the strategic report.
1 year 12 25 More than or less years years 5 years Total The derivative financial instruments set out in this note have been entered into in line with the Groups risk management objectives.
The m m m m m Groups treasury policy prohibits entering into speculative transactions.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Fixed rate 19 54 281 627 981 a Carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities Floating rate 100 101 81 282 Set out below is the accounting classification of the carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and liabilities: Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 119 155 362 627 1,263 2017 2016 2016 Carrying Carrying amount Fair value amount Fair value 1 year 12 25 More than m m m m or less years years 5 years Total m m m m m Financial assets Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Cash and cash equivalents 139 139 134 134 Fixed rate 58 20 155 592 825 Available for sale other investments 3 3 33 Floating rate 127 2 303 1 433 Loans and receivables 769 769 699 699 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 185 22 458 593 1,258 Derivative financial instruments 32 32 57 57 Total financial assets 943 943 893 893 The Groups borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps, are denominated in the Financial liabilities following currencies: Trade and other payables 1,372 1,372 1,126 1,126 2017 Bank and other loans 194 194 421 421 Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,054 1,088 817 876 m m m m m Finance lease liabilities 15 15 20 20 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts 16 16 19 19 Fixed rate 156 811 14 981 Derivative financial instruments 24 24 56 56 Floating rate 12 203 35 32 282 Total financial liabilities 2,675 2,709 2,459 2,518 168 1,014 35 46 1,263 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts The fair value is the amount for which an asset or liability could be exchanged or settled on an arms-length basis.
For financial instruments Floating rate 15 80 3 25 123 carried at fair value, market prices or rates are used to determine fair value where an active market exists.
The Group uses forward prices Net borrowings at 30 April 2017 153 934 32 21 1,140 for valuing forward foreign exchange and commodity contracts and uses valuation models with present value calculations based on market yield curves to value note purchase agreements, the medium-term note, cross-currency swaps and interest rate swaps.
All derivative 2016 financial instruments are shown at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Sterling Euro US dollar Other Total m m m m m Under IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, only the portions of the note purchase agreements which form Interest-bearing loans and borrowings part of an effective fair value hedge are carried at fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The majority of the Fixed rate 194 630 1 825 Groups medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt are in effective cash flow and net investment hedges and are therefore held at amortised cost.
The fair values of financial assets and liabilities which bear floating rates of interest are estimated to be equivalent to Floating rate 15 315 48 55 433 their carrying amounts.
209 945 48 56 1,258 Net cash and cash equivalents including bank overdrafts IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures requires the classification of fair value measurements using the fair value hierarchy that reflects Floating rate 93 3 19 115 the significance of the inputs used in making the assessments.
Net borrowings at 30 April 2016 209 852 45 37 1,143 All of the Groups financial instruments are Level 2 financial instruments in accordance with the fair value hierarchy, meaning although At 30 April 2017, 80% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings, after taking into account the effect of cross-currency swaps, the instruments are not traded in an active market, inputs to fair value are observable for the asset and liability, either directly i. e. quoted were denominated in euros in order to hedge the underlying assets of the Groups European operations 30 April 2016: 75%.
Interest rates market prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
on floating rate borrowings are based on London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR, Euro Interbank Offered Rate EURIBOR or base rates.
Finance lease liabilities 2017 2016 Present Present Future value of Future value minimum minimum minimum of minimum lease lease lease lease payments Interest payments payments Interest payments m m m m m m Less than one year 4 4 5 5 Between one and five years 10 10 14 1 13 More than five years 1 1 2 2 Finance lease liabilities 15 15 21 1 20 110 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 1 111 11 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Derivative financial instruments The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts, to manage the risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Derivatives designated as effective hedging instruments are carried at their fair value.
The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: Assets Liabilities Net 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Derivatives held to: Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on business activities, borrowings and net investments 14 25 6 6 8 19 Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 14 25 6 6 8 19 Derivatives held to hedge future transactions Energy costs 18 32 18 50 18 Total derivative financial instruments 32 57 24 56 8 1 Current 13 40 13 47 7 Non-current 19 17 11 9 8 8 32 57 24 56 8 1 c Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges i Cash flow hedging reserve movements The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year.
2017 2016 m m At 1 May 29 27 Unrealised fair value loss gain on designated cash flow hedges Cross-currency interest rate swaps 9 4 Commodity contracts 10 22 Loss reclassified from equity to the income statement Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2 Commodity contracts 4 16 At 30 April 22 29 The amounts reclassified to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in the income statement: 2017 2016 m m Cost of sales 5 18 Finance costs 3 Total loss reclassified from equity to the income statement during the year 8 18 ii Fair value hedges At 30 April 2017, there were no fair value hedge relationships.
At 30 April 2016, the Group held interest rate and foreign exchange swap contracts as fair value hedges of the interest rate and foreign exchange risk on fixed rate debt payable by the Group.
The receive leg of the swap contracts was identical in all critical aspects to the terms of the underlying debt and therefore the hedging was treated as highly effective.
The pre-tax loss on hedging derivative instruments taken to the income statement during the prior year was 1m, offset by a pre-tax gain on the fair value of the debt of 1m.
iii Hedges of net investments in foreign operations The Group holds cross-currency interest rate swap contracts as hedges of long-term investments in foreign subsidiaries.
The pre-tax loss on the hedges recognised in equity during the year was 11m 2015 16: loss of 21m.
This loss is matched by a similar gain in equity on the retranslation of the hedged foreign subsidiary net assets resulting in a net gain of nil 2015 16: net gain of nil treated as hedge ineffectiveness in the income statement.
1 112 12 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued b Derivative financial instruments d Risk identification and risk management The Group enters into derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate, foreign exchange and commodity contracts, to manage the i Capital management risks associated with the Groups underlying business activities and the financing of these activities.
Derivatives designated as effective The Group defines its managed capital as equity, as presented in the consolidated statement of financial position, and net debt hedging instruments are carried at their fair value.
2017 2016 The assets and liabilities of the Group at 30 April in respect of derivative financial instruments are as follows: m m Assets Liabilities Net Net debt 1,092 1,099 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total equity 1,355 1,140 m m m m m m Managed capital 2,447 2,239 Derivatives held to: Manage the interest rate and currency exposures on business There have been no changes to the components of managed capital during the year.
Managed capital is different from capital employed activities, borrowings and net investments 14 25 6 6 8 19 defined as property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions and Derivative financial instruments included in net debt 14 25 6 6 8 19 assets liabilities held for sale.
Managed capital relates to our sources of funding, whereas return on average capital employed is our Derivatives held to hedge future transactions measure of the level of return being generated by the asset base.
Energy costs 18 32 18 50 18 The Group funds its operations from the following sources of capital: operating cash flow, borrowings, shareholders equity and, where Total derivative financial instruments 32 57 24 56 8 1 appropriate, disposals of non-core businesses.
The Groups objective is to achieve a capital structure that results in an appropriate cost of capital whilst providing flexibility in short and medium-term funding so as to accommodate significant investments or acquisitions.
The Current 13 40 13 47 7 Group also aims to maintain a strong balance sheet and to provide continuity of financing by having borrowings with a range of maturities Non-current 19 17 11 9 8 8 and from a variety of sources.
32 57 24 56 8 1 The Groups overall treasury objectives are to ensure sufficient funds are available for the Group to carry out its strategy and to manage c Cash flow, fair value and net investment hedges certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed, as described elsewhere in this note.
The Groups treasury strategy is controlled through the Balance Sheet Committee which meets monthly and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group General Counsel and i Cash flow hedging reserve movements The following table identifies the movements in the cash flow hedging reserve during the year.
Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller and the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
The Group Treasury function operates in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the Board and is controlled by the Group Director of Tax and Treasury.
The function 2017 2016 arranges funding for the Group, provides a service to operations and implements strategies for financial risk management.
m m At 1 May 29 27 ii Market risk Unrealised fair value loss gain on designated cash flow hedges Market risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument fluctuate because of a change in market prices.
Cross-currency interest rate swaps 9 4 The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices.
Commodity contracts 10 22 Interest rate risk Loss reclassified from equity to the income statement The Group is exposed to interest rate risk as borrowings are arranged at fixed interest rates exposing it to fair value risk, and at floating Cross-currency interest rate swaps 2 interest rates exposing it to future cash flow risk.
The risk is managed by maintaining a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings and by the Commodity contracts 4 16 use of interest rate swap contracts which modify the interest payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments.
The Groups exposures At 30 April 22 29 to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note.
At 30 April 2017, 78% of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings were at fixed rates of interest 30 April 2016: 66%.
The The amounts reclassified to the income statement from the cash flow hedging reserve during the year are reflected in the following items in the income statement: sensitivity analysis below shows the impact on profit and total equity of a 100 basis points rise in market interest rates representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in interest rates in all currencies in which the Group had variable-rate 2017 2016 borrowings at 30 April 2017. m m Cost of sales 5 18 To calculate the impact on the income statement for the year, the interest rates on all variable-rate external interest-bearing loans and Finance costs 3 cash deposits have been increased by 100 basis points, and the resulting increase in the net interest charge has been adjusted for the Total loss reclassified from equity to the income statement during the year 8 18 effect of the Groups interest rate derivatives.
ii Fair value hedges At 30 April 2017, there were no fair value hedge relationships.
com 1 113 13 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management continued ii Market risk continued The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
2017 2016 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity m m m m Increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points 3 3 6 6 Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange a stream of interest payments calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
At 30 April 2017, losses of 21m 30 April 2016: losses of 13m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
These will be reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will be during the period to 2022.
Foreign exchange risk Foreign exchange risk on investments The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ from the Groups presentational currency, sterling.
The Group partly hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign currencies and through cross-currency swap contracts.
Gains and losses for hedges of net investments are recognised in equity.
Foreign exchange risk on borrowings The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group hedges this exposure through cross-currency swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
Foreign exchange risk on transactions Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional currency.
Part of this risk is hedged using foreign exchange contracts which are designated as cash flow hedges.
At 30 April 2017, losses net of tax deferred in equity in respect of foreign exchange cash flow hedges were nil 30 April 2016: nil.
The Groups main currency exposure is to the euro and the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: 2017 2016 Average Closing Average Closing euro 1.179 1.184 1.340 1.272 The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of a 10% strengthening and weakening in the sterling exchange rate against all other currencies representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The analysis is restricted to financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments designated as net investment or fair value hedges.
Net investment and fair value hedges are excluded as the impact of the foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and opposite movements in the hedged items.
The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
2017 2016 Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total profit equity profit equity m m m m 10% strengthening of sterling 24 12 10% weakening of sterling 30 15 1 114 14 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management continued d Risk identification and risk management continued ii Market risk continued Commodity risk The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
The Groups main commodity exposures are to changes in gas and electricity prices.
This commodity price risk is managed by a combination 2017 2016 of physical supply agreements and derivative instruments.
At 30 April 2017, no gains or losses net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges in accordance with IAS 39 30 April 2016: losses of 16m.
Any gains or losses deferred in equity will be reclassified to the Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income statement, which will occur within three years.
profit equity profit equity m m m m The following table details the Groups sensitivity to a 10% increase in these prices, which is managements assessment of the reasonably Increase in market interest rates of 100 basis points 3 3 6 6 possible change, on average, over any given year.
A decrease of 10% in these prices would produce an opposite effect on equity.
As all of the Groups commodity financial instruments achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39, there is no impact on profit for either year.
Under interest rate swap contracts, the Group agrees to exchange a stream of interest payments calculated on agreed notional principal amounts.
At 30 April 2017, losses of 21m 30 April 2016: losses of 13m net of tax are deferred in equity in respect of cash flow hedges The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
These will be reclassified to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item also affects the income 2017 2016 statement, which will be during the period to 2022.
Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total Foreign exchange risk profit equity profit equity Foreign exchange risk on investments m m m m The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from net investments in Group entities, the functional currencies of which differ 10% increase in electricity prices 2 1 from the Groups presentational currency, sterling.
The Group partly hedges this exposure through borrowings denominated in foreign 10% increase in gas prices 13 11 currencies and through cross-currency swap contracts.
iii Credit risk Foreign exchange risk on borrowings Credit risk is the risk that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument will fail to perform or fail to pay amounts due, causing The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on borrowings denominated in foreign currencies.
The Group hedges this exposure through financial loss to the Group.
In the current economic environment, the Group has placed increased emphasis on the management of credit cross-currency swaps designated as either cash flow or fair value hedges.
The carrying amount of financial assets at 30 April 2017 was 943m and is analysed in note 20 a.
This represents the maximum credit Foreign exchange risk on transactions risk exposure.
Foreign currency transaction risk arises where a business unit makes product sales or purchases in a currency other than its functional Credit risk on financial instruments held with financial institutions is assessed and managed by reference to the long-term credit ratings currency.
assigned to that counterparty by Standard & Poors and Moodys credit rating agencies.
There are no significant concentrations of At 30 April 2017, losses net of tax deferred in equity in respect of foreign exchange cash flow hedges were nil 30 April 2016: nil.
The Groups main currency exposure is to the euro and the following significant exchange rates applied during the year: See note 15 for information on credit risk with respect to trade receivables.
2017 2016 iv Liquidity risk Average Closing Average Closing Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group, although solvent, will have difficulty in meeting its obligations associated with its financial liabilities euro 1.179 1.184 1.340 1.272 as they fall due.
The Group manages its liquidity risk by maintaining a sufficient level of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
At 30 April 2017, the Group The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact on the Groups results of a 10% strengthening and weakening in the sterling exchange had 705m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities 30 April 2016: 500m.
The Group mitigates its refinancing risk by raising its debt rate against all other currencies representing managements assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.
The requirements from a number of different sources with a range of maturities.
analysis is restricted to financial instruments denominated in a foreign currency and excludes the impact of financial instruments designated as net investment or fair value hedges.
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial liabilities including the effect of cross-currency interest rate swaps.
Net investment and fair value hedges are excluded as the impact of the foreign exchange movements on these are offset by equal and Contractual repayments opposite movements in the hedged items.
1 year 15 More than The results are presented before non-controlling interests and tax.
Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2017 m m m m 2017 2016 Non-derivative financial liabilities Impact Impact Impact on on total Impact on on total Trade and other payables 1,372 1,358 14 profit equity profit equity Bank and other loans 197 100 97 m m m m Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 1,050 15 412 623 10% strengthening of sterling 24 12 Finance lease liabilities 15 4 10 1 10% weakening of sterling 30 15 Bank overdrafts 16 16 Interest payments on borrowings 120 25 82 13 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,770 1,518 615 637 114 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 1 115 15 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Financial instruments continued d Risk identification and risk management continued iv Liquidity risk continued Contractual repayments 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2016 m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables 1,126 1,118 8 Bank and other loans 425 115 310 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 823 65 162 596 Finance lease liabilities 21 5 14 2 Bank overdrafts 19 19 Interest payments on borrowings 148 27 90 31 Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,562 1,349 584 629 Refer to note 28 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 29 for a summary of the Groups capital commitments.
The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial instruments excluding interest payments and receipts.
Where the payable and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual payments or receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates prevailing at the respective year-ends.
Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future contractual maturities.
Contractual payments receipts 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2017 m m m m Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives Interest rate and currency swaps: Payments 492 74 86 332 Receipts 502 74 90 338 Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 10 4 6 Contractual payments receipts 1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2016 m m m m Derivative financial liabilities Energy derivatives 18 13 5 Interest rate and currency swaps: Payments 601 138 144 319 Receipts 631 146 151 334 Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 12 5 2 15 1 116 16 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities d Risk identification and risk management continued Analysis of movements in recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year iv Liquidity risk continued Property, plant and Contractual repayments equipment and Employee benefits Tax 1 year 15 More than intangible assets including pensions losses Other Total Total or less years 5 years 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 At 30 April 2016 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m Non-derivative financial liabilities At 1 May 158 131 53 54 39 23 17 9 83 63 Trade and other payables 1,126 1,118 8 Acquired 4 28 5 1 4 22 Bank and other loans 425 115 310 Charge credit for the year 10 13 2 1 14 10 3 22 21 Medium-term notes and other fixed-term debt 823 65 162 596 Recognised directly in equity 2 4 8 16 7 22 11 Finance lease liabilities 21 5 14 2 Currency translation 17 12 2 2 2 1 2 1 11 8 Bank overdrafts 19 19 At 30 April 169 158 51 53 63 39 1 17 54 83 Interest payments on borrowings 148 27 90 31 At 30 April 2017, deferred tax assets and liabilities were recognised for all taxable temporary differences: Total non-derivative financial liabilities 2,562 1,349 584 629 except where the deferred tax liability arises on goodwill: Refer to note 28 for an analysis of the Groups future operating lease payments and to note 29 for a summary of the Groups except on initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, capital commitments.
affects neither the accounting profit nor the taxable profit or loss: and The following table is an analysis of the undiscounted contractual maturities of derivative financial instruments excluding interest in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the timing of the payments and receipts.
Where the payable and receivable legs of these derivatives are denominated in foreign currencies, the contractual reversal of temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and it is probable that temporary differences will not reverse in the payments or receipts have been calculated based on exchange rates prevailing at the respective year-ends.
Where applicable, interest and foreign exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date are assumed to remain constant over the future Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities contractual maturities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: Contractual payments receipts 1 year 15 More than 2017 2016 Total or less years 5 years m m At 30 April 2017 m m m m Deferred tax liabilities 133 141 Derivative financial liabilities Deferred tax assets 79 58 Energy derivatives Net deferred tax 54 83 Interest rate and currency swaps: Payments 492 74 86 332 The deferred tax asset in respect of tax losses at 30 April 2017 includes an asset in the UK of 36m 30 April 2016: 28m.
The asset is Receipts 502 74 90 338 recognised based on managements expectation that the financing of an acquisition will result in additional interest income in the UK Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 10 4 6 against which the losses will be fully offset leading to the recovery of the deferred tax asset over the next five years.
The Group has total unrecognised deferred tax assets relating to tax losses of 19m 30 April 2016: 9m.
These losses do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that future Contractual payments receipts taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise these benefits.
1 year 15 More than Total or less years 5 years At 30 April 2016, no deferred tax liability was recognised on temporary differences of 276m relating to unremitted earnings of overseas At 30 April 2016 m m m m subsidiaries as the Group was able to control the timing of the reversal of these temporary differences and it was probable that they would Derivative financial liabilities not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The temporary differences at 30 April 2016 represented only the unremitted earnings of those Energy derivatives 18 13 5 overseas subsidiaries where remittance to the UK of those earnings would still result in a tax liability, principally as a result of dividend Interest rate and currency swaps: withholding taxes levied by the overseas jurisdiction in which those subsidiaries operated.
There was no equivalent temporary difference Payments 601 138 144 319 at 30 April 2017 as legislation has been introduced removing the taxes on remittance of these earnings.
Receipts 631 146 151 334 Total net derivative financial assets liabilities 12 5 2 15 116 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 1 117 17 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Provisions Restructuring Other Total m m m At 1 May 2016 22 19 41 Charged to income 26 3 29 Credited to income 3 3 Utilised 35 6 41 Reclassification 3 2 1 Currency translation 2 2 At 30 April 2017 18 11 29 Non-current 2 3 5 Current 16 8 24 18 11 29 The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures and restructuring costs described in note 4.
Other provisions mainly relate to site restorations and provisions for vacant leaseholds.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in the contract.
Capital and reserves Share capital Number of shares 2017 2016 2017 2016 millions millions m m Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 951 945 95 94 During the year ended 30 April 2017, 6,478,392 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee share options.
The net movements in share capital and share premium are disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
In respect of the Companys shares that are held by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares are reissued.
Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
Hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Share premium The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
Own shares The reserve for the Companys own shares comprises the cost of the Companys shares held by the Group.
The Group operates a General Employee Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the performance share plan and the share matching plan.
At 30 April 2017, the Trust held 2.0m shares 30 April 2016: 1.6m shares.
The market value of the shares at 30 April 2017 was 6.7m 30 April 2016: 4.4m.
Dividends receivable on the shares owned by the Trust have been waived.
Non-controlling interests The Group has various put options in relation to subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group records a liability at the net present value of the expected future payments, with a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-controlling shareholders put option, measured at fair value.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes recorded within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.
1 118 18 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Employee benefits Restructuring Other Total Total UK Overseas m m m 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 At 1 May 2016 22 19 41 Balance sheet m m m m m m Charged to income 26 3 29 Present value of post-retirement obligations 1,277 1,142 1,133 1,006 144 136 Credited to income 3 3 Utilised 35 6 41 Fair value of plan assets Reclassification 3 2 1 Equities multi-strategy 294 237 281 229 13 8 Currency translation 2 2 Debt instruments 165 137 134 124 31 13 At 30 April 2017 18 11 29 Derivatives 506 427 506 427 Real estate 3 2 3 2 Cash and cash equivalents 3 24 2 3 1 21 Non-current 2 3 5 Current 16 8 24 Other 128 130 128 130 1,099 957 1,051 913 48 44 18 11 29 Net post-retirement plan deficit 178 185 82 93 96 92 The restructuring provision includes amounts associated with the closures and restructuring costs described in note 4.
Other provisions Other employee benefit liabilities 3 3 3 3 mainly relate to site restorations and provisions for vacant leaseholds.
The timing of the utilisation of these provisions is uncertain, except Total employee benefit deficit 181 188 82 93 99 95 where the associated costs are contractual, in which case the provision is utilised over the time period specified in the contract.
Capital and reserves Net employee benefit deficit 139 145 68 76 71 69 Share capital Employee benefit schemes Number of shares At 30 April 2017, the Group operated a number of employee benefit arrangements for the benefit of its employees throughout the world.
2017 2016 2017 2016 The plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements and their legal status and control vary millions millions m m depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
Ordinary equity shares of 10 pence each: Issued, allotted, called up and fully paid 951 945 95 94 Pension scheme trustees and representatives of the Group work with those managing the employee benefit arrangements to monitor the effects on the arrangements of changes in financial markets and the impact of uncertainty in assumptions, and to develop strategies that During the year ended 30 April 2017, 6,478,392 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were issued as a result of exercises of employee share could mitigate the risks to which these employee benefit schemes expose the Group.
UK schemes The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at The DS Smith Group Pension Scheme the Group Scheme is a UK funded final salary defined benefit scheme providing pensions and lump meetings of the Company.
In respect of the Companys shares that are held by the Group, all rights are suspended until those shares sum benefits to members and dependants.
The Group Scheme closed to future accrual from 30 April 2011 with pensions calculated based are reissued.
on pensionable salaries up to the point of closure or the date of leaving the Group Scheme, if earlier.
The Group Scheme has a normal retirement age of 65 although some members are able to take their benefits earlier than this.
Increases to pensions are affected by Translation reserve changes in the rate of inflation for the majority of members.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of foreign operations and the translation of liabilities that hedge the Companys net investment in a foreign subsidiary.
The Group Scheme is governed by a Trustee Company DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited, which is comprised of a Board of Trustee Directors the Trustee Board and is independent of the Group.
The Trustee Board is responsible for managing the operation, funding and Hedging reserve investment strategy of the Group Scheme.
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
UK legislation requires the Trustee Board to carry out actuarial funding valuations at least every three years and to target full funding over an appropriate period of time, taking into account the current circumstances of the Group Scheme and the Group on a basis that prudently Share premium reflects the risks to which the Group Scheme is exposed the Technical Provisions basis.
The most recent funding valuation was carried The share premium account represents the difference between the issue price and the nominal value of shares issued.
out as at 30 April 2016, following which a deficit recovery plan was agreed with the Trustee Board on 28 April 2017.
The Group has agreed Own shares to increase existing cash contributions by 10% per annum commencing with the current year back-dated to the beginning of the year.
The The reserve for the Companys own shares comprises the cost of the Companys shares held by the Group.
The Group operates a General planned contribution for 2016 17 was, therefore, increased from 16m to 17.6m.
The contribution for the year ended 30 April 2018 Employee Benefit Trust, which acquires shares in the Company that can be used to satisfy the requirements of the performance share plan under the plan is 18.3m.
The recovery plan is expected to be completed on or around November 2025. and the share matching plan.
The market value of the shares at The Trustee Board and the Group have in place a secondary Long-Term Funding Target the LTFT, in addition to the statutory funding 30 April 2017 was 6.7m 30 April 2016: 4.4m.
requirement, the purpose of which is to achieve material additional security for the Group Schemes members.
The objective of the LTFT Non-controlling interests is for the Group Scheme to be funded by 30 April 2035 to a level that does not expect to rely on future contributions from the Group.
The Group has various put options in relation to subsidiaries with non-controlling interests.
The Group records a liability at the net present In March 2016, a new investment strategy was designed and introduced with the aim to significantly reduce risk whilst maintaining the value of the expected future payments, with a corresponding entry against non-controlling interests in respect of the non-controlling existing level of expected return.
To achieve this, the Group Schemes actual exposure to equity assets was reduced and the revised shareholders put option, measured at fair value.
At the end of each period, the valuation of the liability is reassessed with any changes strategy aims to more closely align movements in the Group Schemes assets to that of its liabilities.
To do this, the Scheme has looked to recorded within finance costs through the income statement and then transferred out of retained earnings into non-controlling interests.
hedge its inflation and interest rate risk exposure and the majority of its inflation risk exposure on a Technical Provisions basis.
Through the use of derivatives it has managed to maintain a similar level of overall return but with lower expected variability, despite the reduction in equity exposure.
To help the Trustee Board to monitor, review and assess investment matters, the Investment and Funding Committee the IFC, which consists of representatives from the Trustee Board and the Group, meets on a quarterly basis throughout the year.
com 1 119 19 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued UK schemes continued The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
As the Group Schemes obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the Group Schemes liabilities.
Other assumptions used to value the defined benefit obligation are also uncertain.
The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based arrangement offering members a range of investments.
All assets are held independently from the Group.
The Group also operates a small unfunded arrangement in the UK.
Overseas schemes The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to employees after completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective Bargaining Agreement: Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes: and Netherlands transitional arrangements on closure of defined benefit scheme.
In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
Other employee benefits relate to pre-retirement benefits in Germany.
Overseas schemes expose the Group to risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk, investment risk, life expectancy risk and healthcare cost risk.
Actions taken by the local regulator, or changes to legislation, could result in stronger local funding requirements for pension schemes, which could affect the Groups future cash flow.
Movements in the liability for employee benefit plans obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 2017 2016 m m Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,145 1,202 Acquisitions 9 Interest cost 36 38 Service cost recognised in the consolidated income statement 5 6 Member contributions 1 Settlement curtailment 2 Pension payments 48 45 Unfunded benefits paid 7 7 Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 217 46 Actuarial gains experience 56 3 Actuarial gains demographic 22 10 Currency translation 10 8 Reclassification 1 5 Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,280 1,145 1 120 20 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued UK schemes continued Movements in the fair value of employee benefit plans assets recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position The Group Scheme exposes the Group to risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and investment risk.
2017 2016 As the Group Schemes obligation is to provide lifetime pension benefits to members upon retirement, increases in life expectancy will m m result in an increase in the Group Schemes liabilities.
Schemes assets at 1 May 957 1,002 Employer contributions 17 17 The largest defined contribution arrangement operated by the Group is in the UK.
The UK defined contribution scheme is a trust-based Member contributions 1 arrangement offering members a range of investments.
Interest income 32 33 Actuarial gains losses 138 48 Overseas schemes Pension payments 48 45 The countries where the Group operates the most significant defined benefit post-retirement arrangements are: Currency translation 2 3 France various mandatory retirement indemnities, post-retirement medical plans and jubilee arrangements benefits paid to Reclassification 5 employees after completion of a certain number of years of service the majority of which are determined by the applicable Collective Schemes assets at 30 April 1,099 957 Bargaining Agreement: Durations and expected payment profile Italy mandatory end-of-service lump sum benefits in respect of pre-2007 service: The following table provides information on the distribution of the timing of expected benefit payments for the Group Scheme: Germany jubilee arrangements and non-contributory defined benefit pension schemes: and Within 5 6 to 10 11 to 20 21 to 30 31 to 40 41 to 50 Over 50 Netherlands transitional arrangements on closure of defined benefit scheme.
years years years years years years years At 30 April 2017 m m m m m m m In general, local trustees or similar bodies manage the post-retirement and medical plans in accordance with local regulations.
Other Projected benefit payments 191 226 513 434 286 131 35 employee benefits relate to pre-retirement benefits in Germany.
The weighted average duration for the Group Scheme is 18 years.
Actions taken by the local regulator, or changes to legislation, could result in stronger local funding The Group made agreed contributions of 16m to the Group Scheme in 2016 17 2015 16: 16m.
A charge over certain assets of the requirements for pension schemes, which could affect the Groups future cash flow.
Group has been made as security for certain unfunded arrangements.
The Groups current best estimate of contributions expected to be made to the Group Scheme in the year ending 30 April 2018 is approximately 20m.
Movements in the liability for employee benefit plans obligations recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position 2017 2016 Significant actuarial assumptions m m Principal actuarial assumptions for the Group Scheme are as follows: Schemes liabilities at 1 May 1,145 1,202 2017 2016 Acquisitions 9 Discount rate for scheme liabilities 2.5% 3.5% Interest cost 36 38 Inflation 2.2% 1.8% Service cost recognised in the consolidated income statement 5 6 Pre-retirement pension increases 2.2% 1.8% Member contributions 1 Future pension increases for pre 30 April 2005 service 2.2% 1.9% Settlement curtailment 2 Future pension increases for post 30 April 2005 service 1.8% 1.6% Pension payments 48 45 Unfunded benefits paid 7 7 For other overseas arrangements, the weighted average actuarial assumptions are a discount rate of 1.5% 30 April 2016: 1.5% and an Actuarial losses gains financial assumptions 217 46 inflation rate of 1.8% 30 April 2016: 1.5%.
Actuarial gains experience 56 3 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with the relevant standard Actuarial gains demographic 22 10 mortality tables in each country.
For the Group Scheme at 30 April 2017, the mortality base table used is S2PA year of birth, with CMI 2016 Currency translation 10 8 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of improvement used for future longevity improvement.
At 30 April 2016 the mortality Reclassification 1 5 base table used was S1NA year of birth with a 1 year age rating, with CMI 2015 projections with a 1.25% per annum long-term rate of Schemes liabilities at 30 April 1,280 1,145 improvement used for future longevity improvement.
As part of the Group Scheme actuarial valuation exercise the projected life expectancies were as follows: 2017 2016 Male Female Male Female Life expectancy at age 65 Member currently aged 65 21.2 23.2 21.3 23.7 Member currently aged 45 22.1 25.0 23.0 25.6 120 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 12 121 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Employee benefits continued Sensitivity analysis The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all other variables remain the same.
In practice, this approach is not necessarily realistic since some assumptions are related.
This sensitivity analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
Increase in pension liability m 0.5% decrease in discount rate 102 0.5% increase in inflation 77 1 year increase in life expectancy 39 Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement Total 2017 2016 m m Post-retirement benefits current service cost 5 6 Total service cost 5 6 Net interest cost on net pension liability 4 5 Pension Protection Fund levy 1 1 Employment benefit net finance expense 5 6 Total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 10 12 Items recognised in other comprehensive income expense Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation effect of change in financial assumptions 139 59 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 138 48 Total losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income expense 1 11 25.
Share-based payment expense The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: i A performance share plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards have been made under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions shown below: i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within the FTSE 250: ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and iii.
average adjusted return on average capital employed ROACE.
Awards between 2010 and 2014 are subject to three performance measures: i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and iii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
Awards made since 2015 are subject to three performance measures: i.
33.3% of each award based on a TSR component: ii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and iii.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted ROACE.
The 2013 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
ii A deferred share bonus plan DSBP is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012 13, for senior executives.
Shares awarded under the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of the award.
The 2012 and 2013 awards have vested, but have not yet been fully exercised.
1 12 22 2 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 24.
Share-based payment expense continued Sensitivity analysis iii A share matching plan SMP is operated for Executive Directors and senior executives with the first award made in 2012 13.
The The sensitivity of the liabilities in the Group Scheme to each significant actuarial assumption is summarised in the following table, showing award will vest after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the the impact on the defined benefit obligation if each assumption is altered by the amount specified in isolation, whilst assuming that all three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average other variables remain the same.
This sensitivity adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
No further awards under this Plan will be made subsequent to the 2014 15 award analysis applies to the defined benefit obligation only and not to the net defined benefit pension liability, the measurement of which granted in July 2014. depends on a number of factors including the fair value of plan assets.
The 2012 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
Increase in iv A long-term incentive plan LTIP is operated for selected senior managers with the first award made in 2013 14.
The award will vest pension liability m after three years subject to remaining in service and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial 0.5% decrease in discount rate 102 years commencing with the year of grant.
The performance conditions of the award are based 50% on average adjusted EPS and 50% on average adjusted ROACE.
0.5% increase in inflation 77 1 year increase in life expectancy 39 v An international sharesave plan was introduced in January 2014 with further invitations being made in January 2016 and January 2017.
All employees of the Company and participating subsidiaries were eligible to participate in this plan.
Under this HMRC approved plan, Expense recognised in the consolidated income statement options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up to a maximum of 250 or local currency equivalent across all open Total invitations per month over a period of three years at a discount of up to 20% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc 2017 2016 ordinary share on the three dealing days prior to invitation.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has m m elapsed.
In common with most plans of this type there are no performance conditions applicable to options granted under this plan.
The Post-retirement benefits current service cost 5 6 provisions of this plan are subject to minor country specific variances.
A standard US stock purchase plan, which received shareholder Total service cost 5 6 approval at the 2014 AGM, was also introduced in January 2014 and subsequent invitations were made in 2016 and 2017.
US Net interest cost on net pension liability 4 5 employees of the Group are eligible to participate in this plan.
Options are granted to participants who have contracted to save up Pension Protection Fund levy 1 1 to $405 per month over a period of two years at a discount of up to 15% to the average closing mid-market price of a DS Smith Plc Employment benefit net finance expense 5 6 ordinary share on the day before grant.
Options cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of two years has elapsed.
Total expense recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement 10 12 Full details of the awards described in i, ii, iii and v are set out in the Remuneration Committee report on pages 64 to 79.
Items recognised in other comprehensive income expense Options outstanding and exercisable under share arrangements at 30 April 2017 were: Remeasurement of defined benefit obligation effect of change in financial assumptions 139 59 Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in employment benefit net finance expense 138 48 Options outstanding Options exercisable Weighted Total losses gains recognised in other comprehensive income expense 1 11 average Weighted Weighted remaining average average 25.
Share-based payment expense Number Option price contract life exercise Number exercise of shares range p years price p exercisable price p The Groups share-based payment arrangements are as follows: Performance share plan 5,468,154 Nil 1.1 Nil 262,744 Nil i A performance share plan PSP.
Awards under the PSP normally become exercisable after three years subject to remaining in service Deferred Share Bonus Plan 1,480,650 Nil 1.0 Nil 123,016 Nil and the satisfaction of performance conditions measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
Awards Share Matching Plan 507,974 Nil 0.2 Nil 90,704 Nil have been made under the PSP annually since 2008, originally based on the following performance measures, in the proportions Sharesave Plan 9,134,794 269.0 333.0 2.1 314.1 1,297,896 269.0 shown below: Options outstanding Options exercisable i. the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to the constituents of the Industrial Goods and Services Supersector within Weighted the FTSE 250: average Weighted Weighted remaining average average ii.
average adjusted earnings per share EPS : and Option price contract life exercise Value exercise Value range p years price p exercisable price p iii.
Long-term incentive plan 4,717,278 Nil 1.3 Nil Nil Nil Awards between 2010 and 2014 are subject to three performance measures: The effect on earnings per share of potentially dilutive shares issuable under share-based payment arrangements is shown in note 8. i.
50% of each award based on a TSR component: Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their related weighted average exercise prices are as follows: ii.
25% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term iii.
share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Awards made since 2015 are subject to three performance measures: average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options i.
33.3% of each award based on average adjusted EPS: and Granted Nil 1,909 Nil 463 Nil 333.0 4,976 Nil 1,554 iii.
Exercised Nil 2,192 Nil 427 Nil 291 269.1 4,497 Nil 1,335 The 2013 award has vested, but has not yet been fully exercised.
Lapsed Nil 455 Nil 6 Nil 38 288.8 613 Nil 224 At 30 April 2017 Nil 5,468 Nil 1,481 Nil 508 314.1 9,135 Nil 4,717 ii A deferred share bonus plan DSBP is operated for Executive Directors and, from 2012 13, for senior executives.
Shares awarded Exercisable at under the Plan will vest automatically if the Director or senior executive is still employed by the Company three years after the grant of 30 April 2017 Nil 263 Nil 123 Nil 91 269.0 1,298 Nil the award.
com 1 123 23 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Share-based payment expense continued Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options 2016 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s At 1 May 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil 1,490 Nil 1,320 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 Granted Nil 1,783 Nil 482 Nil 302.0 3,225 Nil 1,604 Exercised Nil 1,793 Nil 419 Nil 371 269.0 203 Nil Lapsed Nil 625 Nil 102 Nil 112 270.5 585 Nil At 30 April 2016 Nil 6,206 Nil 1,451 Nil 837 280.4 9,269 Nil 4,722 Exercisable at 30 April 2016 Nil 815 Nil 220 Nil 91 Nil Nil The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 409.6 pence 2015 16: 386.4 pence.
The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and DSBP schemes.
The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 6m.
The significant inputs into the model were: a share price of 395.9p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected initial volatility of the share price of 26.7% and long-term volatility of 28.5%: the scheme life disclosed above: a risk-free interest rate of 0.39% for Executive Directors and 0.16% for all other participants, and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility of share price returns measured as the standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices from 1 January 1970.
The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 10m 2015 16: 6m.
Cash generated from operations 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Profit for the year 208 167 Adjustments for: Pre-tax integration costs and other exceptional items 57 92 Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 70 37 Cash outflow for exceptional items 66 77 Depreciation 148 127 1 Profit on sale of non-current assets 14 12 Share of profit loss of equity accounted investment, net of tax 3 1 Employment benefit net finance expense 5 6 Share-based payment expense 10 6 Finance income 1 1 Finance costs 51 43 Other non-cash items 9 2 Income tax expense 56 34 Change in provisions 6 18 Change in employee benefits 19 19 Cash generation before working capital movement 505 388 Changes in: Inventories 49 25 Trade and other receivables 10 33 Trade and other payables 163 48 Working capital movement 124 56 Cash generated from continuing operations 629 444 1 Includes gains on the sale of surplus property assets of 7m 2015 16: 10m.
1 12 24 4 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2017 2016 m m Performance Deferred share Share matching Sharesave Long-term Continuing operations share plan bonus plan plan plan incentive plan Operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items 443 379 Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average average average Depreciation 148 127 exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options exercise Options Adjusted EBITDA 591 506 2016 price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s price p 000s Working capital movement 124 56 At 1 May 2015 Nil 6,841 Nil 1,490 Nil 1,320 269.0 6,832 Nil 3,118 Change in provisions 6 18 Granted Nil 1,783 Nil 482 Nil 302.0 3,225 Nil 1,604 Change in employee benefits 19 19 Exercised Nil 1,793 Nil 419 Nil 371 269.0 203 Nil Other 5 5 Lapsed Nil 625 Nil 102 Nil 112 270.5 585 Nil Cash generated from operations before exceptional cash items 695 520 At 30 April 2016 Nil 6,206 Nil 1,451 Nil 837 280.4 9,269 Nil 4,722 Capital expenditure 244 229 Exercisable at Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and other investments 18 28 30 April 2016 Nil 815 Nil 220 Nil 91 Nil Nil Tax paid 61 49 The average share price of the Company during the financial year was 409.6 pence 2015 16: 386.4 pence.
Net interest paid 45 32 Free cash flow 363 238 The fair value of awards granted in the period relates to the PSP and DSBP schemes.
Cash outflow for exceptional items 66 77 The fair value of the PSP award granted during the year, determined using the stochastic valuation model, was 6m.
The significant inputs Dividends paid 121 108 into the model were: a share price of 395.9p for the PSP at the grant date: the exercise prices shown above: an expected initial volatility of Acquisition of subsidiary businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 71 313 the share price of 26.7% and long-term volatility of 28.5%: the scheme life disclosed above: a risk-free interest rate of 0.39% for Executive Disposal of subsidiary and equity accounted businesses, net of cash and cash equivalents 21 Directors and 0.16% for all other participants, and an expected dividend yield of nil.
The volatility of share price returns measured as the Net cash flow 105 239 standard deviation of expected share price returns is based on statistical analysis of average weekly share prices from 1 January 1970.
Proceeds from issue of share capital 13 1 The total charge for the year relating to share-based payments recognised as personnel expenses was 10m 2015 16: 6m.
Loans and borrowings acquired 14 120 Net movement on debt 104 358 26.
Cash generated from operations Foreign exchange, fair value and other non-cash movements note 17 97 90 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Net debt movement continuing operations 7 448 Profit for the year 208 167 Opening net debt 1,099 651 Adjustments for: Closing net debt 1,092 1,099 Pre-tax integration costs and other exceptional items 57 92 Amortisation of intangible assets and acquisitions and disposals 70 37 28.
Operating leases Cash outflow for exceptional items 66 77 Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: Depreciation 148 127 2017 2016 1 Profit on sale of non-current assets 14 12 m m Share of profit loss of equity accounted investment, net of tax 3 1 Less than one year 27 27 Employment benefit net finance expense 5 6 Between one and five years 64 53 Share-based payment expense 10 6 More than five years 39 15 Finance income 1 1 130 95 Finance costs 51 43 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for various properties, machines, vehicles and office equipment.
Other non-cash items 9 2 Income tax expense 56 34 29.
Capital commitments and contingencies Change in provisions 6 18 At 30 April 2017, the Group had committed to incur capital expenditure of 18m 30 April 2016: 26m.
Change in employee benefits 19 19 The Group is not subject to a material litigation, but has a number of contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of business on Cash generation before working capital movement 505 388 behalf of trading subsidiaries including, inter alia, intellectual property disputes and regulatory enquiries in areas such as health and safety, Changes in: environmental, and anti-trust.
No losses are anticipated to arise on these contingent liabilities.
Inventories 49 25 As a result of previous acquisitions, various contingent liabilities were identified and included within provisions, as required by IFRS 3 Trade and other receivables 10 33 Business Combinations.
Whilst it is difficult to reasonably estimate the ultimate outcome of these claims, the Directors best estimate has Trade and other payables 163 48 been updated and included in the closing provision balance at 30 April 2017.
Working capital movement 124 56 Cash generated from continuing operations 629 444 1 Includes gains on the sale of surplus property assets of 7m 2015 16: 10m.
com 1 125 25 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Acquisitions and disposals a 2016 17 acquisitions and disposals In the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group made various business acquisitions, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
These comprise the acquisition of two businesses specialising in point of sale and display product and services for in-store marketing Creo in the UK, and Deku-Pack in Denmark, Parish a US manufacturer and supplier of bag-in-box systems, Gopaca a corrugated producer in Portugal and P&I Display a specialist corrugated display business in Portugal for a total of 71m net of cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and borrowings acquired from these transactions were 14m.
b 2015 16 acquisitions and disposals On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business, effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack business for 305m on a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
On 31 July 2015, the Group acquired the corrugated activities of Grupo Lantero, including several operations in which DS Smith previously held an equity accounted minority.
The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity, and the total consideration, including the assumption of debt, was 190m.
In addition to the acquisitions detailed above, in the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group also made various other business acquisitions and disposals, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
These include the disposal of StePac for US$31m, the acquisition of the Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group with a simultaneous sale of the Groups minority shareholding in Cukurova Groups Turkish corrugated paper and packaging entities to the Cukurova Group, the acquisition of the Milas packaging business of DasaMilas Ambalaj, and the acquisition of a specialist high-quality packaging producer, TRM Packaging, in the UK.
For various business combinations completed in the year ended 30 April 2016, certain fair values assigned to the net assets at the dates of acquisition were provisional and, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group has adjusted the fair values attributable to these acquisitions during the year ended 30 April 2017, resulting in a net increase in goodwill of 3m.
c Acquisition related costs The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 7m 2015 16: 9m.
In 2016 17 these primarily related to the acquisition of Creo, Deku-Pack, Gopaca, P&I Display and Parish, as well as other deal costs relating to reviewing potential acquisitions.
These costs have been included in administrative expenses in the Consolidated Income Statement within exceptional items.
Related parties Identity of related parties In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions between its subsidiaries and equity accounted investment.
The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Committee report.
Certain key management also participate in the Groups share-based incentive programme note 25.
Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of 2m 2015 16: 2m relating to key management.
Transactions with pension trustees are disclosed in note 24.
Other related party transactions 2017 2016 m m Sales to equity accounted investees 2 Purchases from equity accounted investees 1 Amounts due from equity accounted investees Advances to non-controlling interest 2 1 12 26 6 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Non-GAAP performance measures a 2016 17 acquisitions and disposals The Group presents reported and adjusted financial information in order to provide shareholders with additional information to further In the year ended 30 April 2017, the Group made various business acquisitions, which are not considered material to the Group individually understand the Groups operational performance and financial position.
Total reported financial information represents the Groups overall performance and financial position, but can contain significant unusual These comprise the acquisition of two businesses specialising in point of sale and display product and services for in-store marketing or non-operational items or involve calculations that may obscure understanding of the key trends and position.
Certain key non-GAAP Creo in the UK, and Deku-Pack in Denmark, Parish a US manufacturer and supplier of bag-in-box systems, Gopaca a corrugated measures are used internally to evaluate business performance, as a key constituent of the Groups planning process, as well as comprising producer in Portugal and P&I Display a specialist corrugated display business in Portugal for a total of 71m net of cash and cash targets against which compensation is determined.
Certain non-GAAP performance measures can be, and are, reconciled to information presented in the financial statements.
Other financial b 2015 16 acquisitions and disposals key performance measures are calculated using information which is not presented in the financial statements and is based on, for On 31 May 2015, the Group acquired the Duropack business, effected by the purchase of equity of the Duropack business for 305m on example, average twelve month balances or average exchange rates.
a cash, debt and, to the extent legally possible and commercially practicable, pension free basis.
The key non-GAAP performance measures used by the Group and their calculation methods are as follows: On 31 July 2015, the Group acquired the corrugated activities of Grupo Lantero, including several operations in which DS Smith previously Adjusted operating profit held an equity accounted minority.
The acquisition was effected by the purchase of equity, and the total consideration, including the Adjusted operating profit is operating profit excluding amortisation and exceptional items.
Exceptional items include business disposal assumption of debt, was 190m.
gains and losses, restructuring and optimisation, acquisition related and integration costs and impairments.
In addition to the acquisitions detailed above, in the year ended 30 April 2016, the Group also made various other business acquisitions and A reconciliation between reported and adjusted operating profit is set out on the face of the consolidated income statement.
disposals, which are not considered material to the Group individually or in aggregate.
These include the disposal of StePac for US$31m, the acquisition of the Greek corrugated packaging business of Cukurova Group with a simultaneous sale of the Groups minority shareholding in Operating profit before exceptional items Cukurova Groups Turkish corrugated paper and packaging entities to the Cukurova Group, the acquisition of the Milas packaging business Operating profit before exceptional items is operating profit before exceptional items.
of DasaMilas Ambalaj, and the acquisition of a specialist high-quality packaging producer, TRM Packaging, in the UK.
A reconciliation between operating profit and operating profit before exceptional items is set out on the face of the consolidated income For various business combinations completed in the year ended 30 April 2016, certain fair values assigned to the net assets at the dates of statement.
acquisition were provisional and, in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group has adjusted the fair values attributable to Other similar profit measures before exceptional items are quoted, such as profit before income tax and exceptional items, and are directly these acquisitions during the year ended 30 April 2017, resulting in a net increase in goodwill of 3m.
derived from the consolidated income statement, from which they can be directly reconciled.
c Acquisition related costs Return on sales The Group incurred acquisition related costs of 7m 2015 16: 9m.
In 2016 17 these primarily related to the acquisition of Creo, Return on sales is adjusted operating profit measured as a percentage of revenue.
Deku-Pack, Gopaca, P&I Display and Parish, as well as other deal costs relating to reviewing potential acquisitions.
Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted earnings per share is basic earnings per share adjusted to exclude the post-tax effects of exceptional items and amortisation.
Related parties Identity of related parties A reconciliation between basic and adjusted earnings per share is provided in note 8.
In the normal course of business the Group undertakes a wide variety of transactions between its subsidiaries and equity accounted Return on average capital employed ROACE investment.
ROACE is adjusted operating profit as a percentage of the average monthly capital employed over the previous 12 month period.
Capital The key management personnel of the Company comprise the Chairman, Executive Directors and non-Executive Directors.
The employed is the sum of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and intangible assets, working capital, capital debtors creditors, provisions compensation of key management personnel can be found in the Remuneration Committee report.
Certain key management also and assets liabilities held for sale.
participate in the Groups share-based incentive programme note 25.
Included within the share-based payment expense is a charge of Average capital 2m 2015 16: 2m relating to key management.
Capital Currency and employed for employed at inter-month the year ended Transactions with pension trustees are disclosed in note 24.
30 April 2017 movements 30 April 2017 m m m Other related party transactions Capital employed 2,796 182 2,978 2017 2016 m m Sales to equity accounted investees 2 Purchases from equity accounted investees 1 Amounts due from equity accounted investees Advances to non-controlling interest 2 126 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 1 127 27 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Non-GAAP performance measures continued EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is adjusted operating profit excluding depreciation.
A reconciliation from adjusted operating profit to EBITDA is provided in note 27.
Net debt EBITDA Net debt EBITDA is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, calculated in accordance with the Groups banking covenant requirements.
In calculating the ratio, net debt is stated at average rates as opposed to closing rates, and EBITDA is adjusted operating profit before depreciation from the previous 12 month period adjusted for the full year effect of acquisitions and disposals in the period.
Currency and Reported acquisition Adjusted basis effects basis m m m At 30 April 2017 Net debt see note 17 1,092 1,092 Year ended 30 April 2017 EBITDA see note 27 591 6 597 Cash conversion Cash conversion is free cash flow before tax, net interest, growth capex, pension payments and exceptional cash flows as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Free cash flow is set out in note 27.
Average working capital to revenue Average working capital to revenue measures the level of investment the Group makes in working capital to conduct its operations.
It is measured by comparing the monthly working capital balances for the previous 12 months as a percentage of revenue over the same period.
Working capital is the sum of inventories, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables.
Constant currency The Group presents commentary on both reported and constant currency revenue and adjusted operating profit comparatives in order to explain the impact of exchange rates on the Groups key income statement captions.
Constant currency comparatives recalculate the prior year revenue and adjusted operating profit as if they had been generated at the current year exchange rates.
The table below shows the calculation: Constant Reported Currency currency basis effects basis Comparative year ended 30 April 2016 m m m Revenue 4,066 432 4,498 Adjusted operating profit 379 43 422 1 128 28 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 32.
Subsequent events a Acquisition of Indevco Management Resources Inc. EBITDA On 28 June 2017, the Group entered into a conditional agreement to acquire an 80% interest in Indevco Management Resources Inc. IMRI, Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is adjusted operating profit excluding depreciation.
A reconciliation the owner of Interstate Resources Inc. Interstate for $920m plus acquired cash and debt of $226m.
Interstate is an integrated packaging from adjusted operating profit to EBITDA is provided in note 27. and paper producer based on the East Coast of the USA.
Net debt EBITDA The acquisition will be funded by the issue of $300m of shares in the Company, a placing on 29 June 2017 of shares in the Company with Net debt EBITDA is the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, calculated in accordance with the Groups banking covenant requirements.
estimated proceeds of 280m, existing debt facilities, and new debt facilities of 400m agreed by the Company on 28 June 2017.
The acquisition is expected to complete by September 2017: completion is subject to certain conditions including: Currency and approval by the Companys shareholders: and Reported acquisition Adjusted basis effects basis waiting periods under applicable US competition laws having expired.
m m m An initial accounting and fair value exercise will be conducted shortly after completion.
At 30 April 2017 Net debt see note 17 1,092 1,092 The following table summarises the estimated financial position of IMRI at 31 December 2016 and its profit for the year then ended: Year ended 30 April 2017 Carrying EBITDA see note 27 591 6 597 values at 31 December Cash conversion 2016 m Cash conversion is free cash flow before tax, net interest, growth capex, pension payments and exceptional cash flows as a percentage of Non-current assets 324 adjusted operating profit.
Current assets 111 Free cash flow is set out in note 27.
Non-current liabilities 241 Current liabilities 44 Average working capital to revenue Total identifiable net assets 150 Average working capital to revenue measures the level of investment the Group makes in working capital to conduct its operations.
It is measured by comparing the monthly working capital balances for the previous 12 months as a percentage of revenue over the same Results for period.
year ended 31 December Constant currency 2016 The Group presents commentary on both reported and constant currency revenue and adjusted operating profit comparatives in order m to explain the impact of exchange rates on the Groups key income statement captions.
Constant currency comparatives recalculate the Revenue 456 prior year revenue and adjusted operating profit as if they had been generated at the current year exchange rates.
The table below shows Operating costs 410 the calculation: Operating profit 46 Net finance costs 9 Constant Reported Currency currency Profit before tax 37 basis effects basis Income tax expense 10 Comparative year ended 30 April 2016 m m m Profit after tax 27 Revenue 4,066 432 4,498 Adjusted operating profit 379 43 422 b Other subsequent events On 31 May 2017, the Group purchased DPF Groupe, a specialist in multi-material packaging solutions and a corrugated producer in France.
The acquisition of DPF Groupe is not material to the Group.
There are no further subsequent events after the reporting date which require disclosure.
com 129 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
DS Smith Group companies The Groups ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
Group companies are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated or registered.
Unless otherwise noted, the undertakings below are wholly owned and consolidated by DS Smith and the share capital held comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by Group subsidiaries.
Principal companies are identified in orange.
Fully owned subsidiaries Notes Notes Notes Argentina France Gibraltar Total Marketing Support Argentina SA 2 DS Smith Chouanard SASU 46 DS Smith Finco IRE Limited 66 Australia DS Smith Ducaplast SASU 49 Greece Total Marketing Support Pacific Pty Ltd 3 DS Smith France SAS 32 DS Smith Cretan Hellas S. A.
68 Austria DS Smith Htre Blanc SNC 31 DS Smith Hellas S. A.
67 ARO Holding GmbH 4 DS Smith Packaging Anjou SASU 31 Hong Kong DS Smith Austria Holdings GmbH 5 DS Smith Packaging Atlantique SASU 31 The Less Packaging Company Asia Limited 69 DS Smith Packaging Austria 5 DS Smith Packaging Auneuil SASU 31 Hungary  GmbH DS Smith Packaging Bretagne SASU 52 DS Smith Omikron Kft.
71 DS Smith Packaging Austria GmbH 6 DS Smith Packaging C. E. R. A. SASU 37 DS Smith Packaging Fzesabony Kft.
70 DS Smith Packaging South East GmbH 5 DS Smith Packaging Consumer SASU 31 DS Smith Packaging Hungary Kft.
71 Belgium DS Smith Packaging Contoire Hamel SAS 40 India D. W. Plastics NV 7 DS Smith Packaging Corrugated 31 DS Smith Products & Services India 72 DS Smith Packaging Belgium NV 8 Services SASU Private Limited DS Smith Packaging Marketing NV 9 DS Smith Packaging Display and 31 The Less Packaging Company India 74 Services SASU Private Limited Bosnia & Herzegovina DS Smith Packaging Fegersheim SASU 35 Total Marketing Support India Private Limited 73 DS Smith Packaging BH d. o. o. Sarajevo 10 DS Smith Packaging France SAS 31 Ireland DS Smith Recycling Bosnia d. o. o.
11 Brazil DS Smith Packaging Kaypac SASU 53 David S. Smith Ireland Unlimited Company 75 DS Smith Packaging Larousse SASU 43 DS Smith Packaging Ireland Limited 75 Total Marketing Support Brazil Ltda 12 DS Smith Packaging Mehun CIM SASU 42 Italy Bulgaria DS Smith Bulgaria S. A.
13 DS Smith Packaging Nord-Est SASU 32 DS Smith Holding Italia SpA 78 DS Smith Packaging Normandie Ondul SASU 47 DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA 78 DS Smith Packaging Bulgaria Ltd 14 DS Smith Packaging Normandie SASU 44 DS Smith Paper Italia Srl.
78 Rapak EAD 15 DS Smith Packaging Premium SA 51 Italmaceri Srl 77 China DS Smith Packaging Services SASU 34 Toscana Ondulati SpA C, 76 DS Smith Shanghai Trading Ltd 16 DS Smith Packaging Sud Est SASU 50 Japan TMS Shanghai Trading Ltd 17 DS Smith Packaging Sud Ouest SASU 51 Total Marketing Support Japan Ltd 79 Colombia Total Marketing Support Colombia S A S 18 DS Smith Packaging Systems SASU 33 Kazakhstan DS Smith Packaging Velin SASU 48 Total Marketing Support Kazakhstan 80 Croatia DS Smith Packaging Vervins SASU 31 Latvia Belie Energetika d. o. o.
19 DS Smith Paper Kaysersberg SASU 38 SIA DS Smith Packaging Latvia 81 Bilokalnik-IPA d. d. F, 20 DS Smith Plastics France SASU 39 Lithuania DS Smith Belie Croatia d. o. o.
19 DS Smith Recycling France SAS 36 UAB DS Smith Packaging Lithuania 82 DS Smith Plastics Karlovac d. o. o.
21 DS Smith Rivatex SASU 41 Luxembourg DS Smith Unijapapir Croatia d. o. o.
23 Otor Lease SASU 31 DS Smith Luxembourg S.. r. l. 83 Rowlandson France SASU 32 DS Smith Perch Luxembourg S.. r. l. 83 Czech Republic Tecnicartn France SAS 45 DS Smith Re S. A.
83 DS Smith Packaging Czech Republic s. r. o.
26 Germany Macedonia the Former Yugoslav Republic of Bretschneider Verpackungen GmbH G, 55 DS Smith AD Skopje E, 84 Denmark Delta Packaging Services GmbH 62 Malaysia DS Smith Display Emballageform ApS 27 DS Smith Display Holding ApS 27 DS Smith Hamburg Display GmbH 64 Total Marketing Support 360 Malaysia 85 Sdn.
DS Smith Packaging Arenshausen 58 DS Smith Display Hvidovre A S 27 Mivepa GmbH Mexico DS Smith Display Tastrup ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Arnstadt GmbH 54 Total Marketing Support 360 Mexico S. A fide C. V 86 DS Smith DM Plast ApS 27 DS Smith Packaging Beteiligungen GmbH 65 Morocco DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung 60 DS Smith Maroc S. a. r. l. 87 DS Smith Vejle Print A S 27 DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung & 65 Tecnicartn Tnger S. a. r. l. AU 88 Egypt Co KG TMS Egypt LLC 28 DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH 63 Estonia DS Smith Pre-Press Services GmbH 61 DS Smith Packaging Estonia AS 29 DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH 59 Finland DS Smith Stange B. V. & Co. KG 65 DS Smith Packaging Baltic Holding Oy 30 DS Smith Transport Services GmbH 63 DS Smith Packaging Finland Oy 30 DS Smith Wirth Verpackungen GmbH 57 DS Smith Packaging Pakkausjaloste Oy 30 Rapak GmbH 56 Eastpac Oy 30 13 130 0 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
DS Smith Group companies continued The Groups ultimate parent company is DS Smith Plc.
Fully owned subsidiaries continued Notes Notes Notes Netherlands DS Smith Packaging Alcala S. L. U.
121 DS Smith Plastics Limited 1 Group companies are grouped by the countries in which they are incorporated or registered.
Unless otherwise noted, the undertakings David S. Smith Netherlands B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Cartogal S. A.
126 DS Smith Recycling UK Limited 1 below are wholly owned and consolidated by DS Smith and the share capital held comprises ordinary or common shares which are held by DS Smith Holdings B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Dicesa S. A.
D, 120 DS Smith Saver Plus Trustees Limited 1 Group subsidiaries.
DS Smith Baars B. V. 59 DS Smith Packaging Flak S. L. 122 DS Smith Sudbrook Limited 1 DS Smith fide Hoop Holding B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Galicia S. A.
127 DS Smith Supplementary Life Cover 1 Fully owned subsidiaries Notes Notes Notes Scheme Limited DS Smith Finance B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Holding S. L. U.
118 Argentina France Gibraltar DS Smith Hellas Netherlands B. V. 90 DS Smith Packaging Madrid S. L. 118 DS Smith Ukraine Limited 1 Total Marketing Support Argentina SA 2 DS Smith Chouanard SASU 46 DS Smith Finco IRE Limited 66 DSS Eastern Europe Limited 1 DS Smith Italy B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Penedes S. A. U.
120 Australia DS Smith Ducaplast SASU 49 Greece DSS Poznan Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Almelo B. V. 89 DS Smith Packaging TCT S. A.
118 Total Marketing Support Pacific Pty Ltd 3 DS Smith France SAS 32 DS Smith Cretan Hellas S. A.
1 Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Barneveld B. V. 92 P&I Displays & Packaging Spain S. L. 119 Austria DS Smith Htre Blanc SNC 31 DS Smith Hellas S. A.
67 First4Boxes Limited I, 1 DS Smith Packaging Belita B. V. 91 Tecnicartn, S. L. 124 ARO Holding GmbH 4 DS Smith Packaging Anjou SASU 31 Hong Kong Grovehurst Energy Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Holding B. V. 91 Sweden DS Smith Austria Holdings GmbH 5 DS Smith Packaging Atlantique SASU 31 The Less Packaging Company Asia Limited 69 JDS Holding 1 DS Smith Packaging International B. V. 91 DS Smith Packaging Sweden AB 128 DS Smith Packaging Austria 5 DS Smith Packaging Auneuil SASU 31 Hungary DS Smith Packaging Netherlands B. V. 90 DS Smith Packaging Sweden Holding AB 128 Miljoint Limited 1  GmbH DS Smith Packaging Bretagne SASU 52 DS Smith Omikron Kft.
71 Multigraphics Holdings Limited 1 DS Smith Recycling Benelux B. V. 91 Switzerland DS Smith Packaging Austria GmbH 6 DS Smith Packaging C. E. R. A. SASU 37 DS Smith Packaging Fzesabony Kft.
70 Multigraphics Limited 1 DS Smith Recycling Holding B. V. 90 DS Smith Packaging Switzerland AG 129 DS Smith Packaging South East GmbH 5 DS Smith Packaging Consumer SASU 31 DS Smith Packaging Hungary Kft.
71 Multigraphics Services Limited 1 DS Smith Salm B. V. 91 Thailand Belgium DS Smith Packaging Contoire Hamel SAS 40 India Pavidda Paper Limited 1 DS Smith Tilburg C. V. 94 DS Smith Rapak Thailand Limited 130 D. W. Plastics NV 7 DS Smith Packaging Corrugated 31 DS Smith Products & Services India 72 Priory Packaging Limited 1 DS Smith Toppositie B. V. 91 Turkey DS Smith Packaging Belgium NV 8 Services SASU Private Limited rapak psi Limited 1 New Zealand DS Smith Ambalaj A.. 131 DS Smith Packaging Marketing NV 9 DS Smith Packaging Display and 31 The Less Packaging Company India 74 Rapak Asia Pacific Limited 95 Total Marketing Support Turkey Bask 132 Reed & Smith Limited 1 Services SASU Private Limited Bosnia & Herzegovina Ynetimi Hizmetleri A.. SRP New Thames Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Fegersheim SASU 35 Total Marketing Support India Private Limited 73 Nigeria DS Smith Packaging BH d. o. o. Sarajevo 10 Ukraine St. Regis Holdings plc 1 DS Smith Packaging France SAS 31 Ireland Total Marketing Support 360 Nigeria Limited 96 DS Smith Recycling Bosnia d. o. o.
11 Pakistan Total Marketing Support Ukraine 133 St. Regis International Limited 1 Brazil DS Smith Packaging Kaypac SASU 53 David S. Smith Ireland Unlimited Company 75 United Arab Emirates St. Regis Kemsley Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Larousse SASU 43 DS Smith Packaging Ireland Limited 75 TMS Pakistan Private Limited 97 Total Marketing Support Brazil Ltda 12 Total Marketing Support Middle East DMCC 135 St. Regis Packaging Scotland Limited 136 DS Smith Packaging Mehun CIM SASU 42 Italy Philippines Bulgaria Total Marketing Support Philippines 98 UK St. Regis Paper Company Limited 1 DS Smith Bulgaria S. A.
13 DS Smith Packaging Nord-Est SASU 32 DS Smith Holding Italia SpA 78 A.
A. Griggs and Company Limited 1 The Brand Compliance Company Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Normandie Ondul SASU 47 DS Smith Packaging Italia SpA 78 Poland DS Smith Packaging Bulgaria Ltd 14 Abbey Corrugated Limited 1 The Less Packaging Company Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Normandie SASU 44 DS Smith Paper Italia Srl.
99 Rapak EAD 15 Ashton Corrugated 1 The Wansbrough Paper Company Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Premium SA 51 Italmaceri Srl 77 DS Smith Polska sp.
99 China Portugal Ashton Corrugated Southern Limited 1 TheBannerPeople.
Com Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Services SASU 34 Toscana Ondulati SpA C, 76 DS Smith Shanghai Trading Ltd 16 Avonbank Paper Disposal Limited 1 Tillotsons Corrugated Cases Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Sud Est SASU 50 Japan DS Smith Displays FFTM, Unipessoal Lda.
103 TMS Shanghai Trading Ltd 17 Biber Paper Converting Limited 1 TMS Global UK Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Sud Ouest SASU 51 Total Marketing Support Japan Ltd 79 DS Smith Displays Opcao Actual, S. A.
101 Colombia DS Smith Displays P&I, S. A.
101 Calara Holding Limited 1 Total Marketing Support Global Limited I, 1 Total Marketing Support Colombia S A S 18 DS Smith Packaging Systems SASU 33 Kazakhstan Conew Limited 1 Total Marketing Support Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Velin SASU 48 Total Marketing Support Kazakhstan 80 DS Smith Packaging Portugal, S. A.
102 Croatia Corrugated Products Limited 1 Treforest Mill plc 1 DS Smith Packaging Vervins SASU 31 Latvia Tecnicartn Portugal Unipessoal Lda 100 Belie Energetika d. o. o.
19 DS Smith Paper Kaysersberg SASU 38 SIA DS Smith Packaging Latvia 81 Romania Creo Property Limited 1 TRM Packaging Limited 1 Bilokalnik-IPA d. d. F, 20 Creo Retail Marketing Holdings Limited 1 TRM Trustees Limited 1 DS Smith Plastics France SASU 39 Lithuania DS Smith Bucharest S. R. L. 104 DS Smith Belie Croatia d. o. o.
19 Creo Retail Marketing Limited 1 United Shopper Marketing Limited 1 DS Smith Recycling France SAS 36 UAB DS Smith Packaging Lithuania 82 DS Smith Packaging Romania S. R. L. 105 DS Smith Plastics Karlovac d. o. o.
21 D. W. Plastics UK Limited 1 W. Rowlandson & Company Limited 1 DS Smith Rivatex SASU 41 Luxembourg Russia DS Smith Unijapapir Croatia d. o. o.
22 David S. Smith Vosto David S Smith Pension Contributions 1 Waddington & Duval Limited 1 Duropack Karton d. o. o.
23 Otor Lease SASU 31 DS Smith Luxembourg S.. r. l. 83 k 108 Limited USA Rowlandson France SASU 32 DS Smith Perch Luxembourg S.. r. l. 83 Packaging Kuban CJSC 106 Czech Republic David S. Smith Nominees Limited 1 David S. Smith America, Inc. 141 Tecnicartn France SAS 45 DS Smith Re S. A.
83 Total Marketing Support Moscow 107 DS Smith Packaging Czech Republic s. r. o.
25 DS Smith UK Limited 1 Serbia David S. Smith Holdings America, Inc. 141 DS Smith Triss s. r. o.
26 Germany Macedonia the Former Yugoslav Republic of DS Smith Business Services Limited 1 DS Smith Extrusion USA LLC 137 Bretschneider Verpackungen GmbH G, 55 DS Smith AD Skopje E, 84 DS Smith Inos Papir Servis d. o. o.
109 Denmark DS Smith Corrugated Packaging Limited 1 DS Smith USA Corporation 140 Delta Packaging Services GmbH 62 Malaysia DS Smith Packaging d. o. o. Kruevac 110 DS Smith Display Emballageform ApS 27 DS Smith Display Holding Limited 1 DSS Rapak, Inc. 141 Papir Servis DP d. o. o.
110 DS Smith Display Holding ApS 27 DS Smith Hamburg Display GmbH 64 Total Marketing Support 360 Malaysia 85 DS Smith Dormant Eight Limited 1 Sdn.
Rapak, LLC 138 DS Smith Packaging Arenshausen 58 Slovakia DS Smith Display Hvidovre A S 27 DS Smith Dormant Five Limited 1 Mivepa GmbH Mexico The Less Packaging Company, Inc. 139 DS Smith Packaging Slovensko s. r. o.
113 DS Smith Display Tastrup ApS 27 DS Smith Euro Finance Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Arnstadt GmbH 54 Total Marketing Support 360 Mexico S. A fide C. V 86 DS Smith Slovakia s. r. o.
112 DS Smith DM Plast ApS 27 DS Smith Finco Limited A, 1 DS Smith Packaging Beteiligungen GmbH 65 Morocco DS Smith Turpak Obaly a. s. B, 115 Associate entities DS Smith Packaging Denmark A S 27 DS Smith Haddox Limited 1 DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung 60 DS Smith Maroc S. a. r. l. 87 Slovenia Cyprus DS Smith Vejle Print A S 27 DS Smith Holdings Limited A, 1 DS Smith Packaging Deutschland Stiftung & 65 Tecnicartn Tnger S. a. r. l. AU 88 DS Smith Packaging d. o. o. Rakek 116 Aerozone Limited I, 24 Egypt Co KG DS Smith International Limited 1 DS Smith Slovenija d. o. o.
115 Netherlands TMS Egypt LLC 28 DS Smith Paper Deutschland GmbH 63 DS Smith Italy Limited 1 South Africa Industriewater Eerbeek B. V. K, 93 Estonia DS Smith Logistics Limited 1 DS Smith Pre-Press Services GmbH 61 TMS 360 SA PTY Ltd 117 Stort Doonweg B. V. I, 93 DS Smith Packaging Estonia AS 29 DS Smith Recycling Deutschland GmbH 59 DS Smith Packaging Limited 1 Spain Serbia Finland DS Smith Stange B. V. & Co. KG 65 DS Smith Paper Limited 1 Papir Pet d. o. o. I, 111 Bertako S. L. U.
125 DS Smith Packaging Baltic Holding Oy 30 DS Smith Transport Services GmbH 63 DS Smith Pension Trustees Limited 1 DS Smith Andorra S. A.
118 Ukraine DS Smith Packaging Finland Oy 30 DS Smith Wirth Verpackungen GmbH 57 DS Smith Perch Limited 1 DS Smith Carton Plastico S. A.
123 Rubizhanskiy Kartonno-Tarniy Kombinat J, 134 DS Smith Packaging Pakkausjaloste Oy 30 Rapak GmbH 56 Eastpac Oy 30 130 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
com 13 131 1 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
DS Smith Group companies continued Ownership interest at 30 April 2017 A Directly held by DS Smith Plc F 75.9% ownership interest B 98.89% ownership interest G 51% ownership interest C 92% ownership interest H 50.1% ownership interest D 80% ownership interest I 50% ownership interest E 78.22% ownership interest J 49.6% ownership interest K 37.5% ownership interest Registered offices 1.
Zone dentreprises fide la Kruysstraete, B. P. 39, F-59470 Wormhout, France 2.
Avenida Eduardo Madero 1020, 5th floor, Office B, The City of Buenos 50.
Zone Industrielle du Pr fide la Barre, 38440, St-Jean fide Bournay, France Aires, Argentina 51.
Zone Industrielle fide Chteaubernard, 16102, Cognac, France 3.
Foster Raffan, Level 6, 8 West Street, North Sydney NSW 2060, Australia 52.
Zone Industrielle fide Kevoasdoue, 29270, Carhaix, France 4.
Zone Industrielle, Voiveselles Croisette, 88800, B P 37, Vittel, France 5.
Heidestrasse 15, 2433 Margarethen am Moos, Austria 55.
Ersteiner Strasse 7-9, D79346 Endingen am Kaiserstuhl, Germany 9.
Corporate Village, Gebouw Gent, Da Vincilaan 2 BE 1935 Zaventem, Belgium 58.
Igmanska bb, Sarajevo, Vogoa, Bosnia and Herzegovina 59.
Jovana Duia br 25 A, Banja Luka, Bosnia and Herzegovina 60.
Rua das Fiandeiras 677, Vila Olimpia, Sao Paulo, Brazil 61.
Western Industrial Zone, BG-7200 Razgrad, Bulgaria 63.
3rd Floor, 45 Industrialna Str, Shumen 9700, Bulgaria 64.
2 Building, Hongqiao Vanke Center, 988 Shenchang 65.
Zum Fliegerhorst 1312 1318, 63526 Erlensee, Germany Road, Minhang district, 201107, Shanghai, China 66.
10 8 International Commercial Centre, Casemates Square, Gibraltar 17.
1788 West Nan Jin Rd, Jing An District, Shanghai, 200040, China 67.
PO Box 1010, 57022 Sindos Industrial Area, Thessaloniki, Greece 18.
Calle 72, 10-07 Oficina 401, Edificio Liberty Seguros, Bogot, Colombia 68.
PO Box 90, GR-72200 Ierapetra, Kriti, Greece 19.
Vijenac Salamona Henricha Gutmanna 30, Belie, Croatia 69.
Units 1607-8, 16th Floor, Citicorp Centre, 17 Whitfield Road, Causeway Bay, 20.
Dravska bb, Koprivnica Grad Koprivnica, Croatia Hong Kong 21.
101-104 Banaji House, Flora Fountain, Fort, Mumbai 40000, India 24.
Julia House, 3 Themistocles Dervis Street, Nicosia, CY-1066, Cyprus 73.
2 F, Elegance Tower, Jasola District Centre, Old Mathura Road, New Delhi, 25.
Teplick 109, Martinves, 405 02 Jlov, Czech Republic 110025, India 26.
A-5 30, Basement, Behind Oriental Bank of Commerce, Paschim Vihar, New 27. strupvej 30, 8500 Grenaa, Denmark Delhi, 110063, India 75.
25 28 North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Ireland 28.
Nile City Towers, North Tower, 22nd Floor, Cornish EINil, Cairo, 11624, Egypt 76.
Capannori Lu Via del Fanuccio, 126 Cap, 55014 Fraz.
Strada Lanzo 237, cap 10148, Torino TO, Italy 31.
Viale Pasubio N. 6, 20154 Milano, Italy 79.
Oak Minami-Azabu Building 2F, 3-19-23 Minami-Azabu, Minato-ku, 32.
11 route Industrielle, F-68320, Kunheim, France Tokyo, Japan 33.
12 rue Gay Lussac ZI Dijon Chenove, 21300, Chenove, France 80.
Abay Ave. 52, 8th floor, 801 office Innova Tower BC, Almaty, 34.
143 Avenue Charles fide Gaulle, 92521, Neuilly sur Seine Cedex, France 050008, Kazakhstan 35.
146 Route fide Lyon, 67640, Fegersheim, France 81.
2 Rue Vincent Van Gogh, ZAC des Bords fide Marne, 93360, Neuilly 82.
Savanoriu ave. 183, 02300 Vilnius, Lithuania Plaisance, France 83.
8-10 Avenue fide la Gare, L-1610 Luxembourg 37.
6-8 Boulevard Monge, 69330, Meyzieu, Lyon, France 84.
Zenden Dzemail 1, Skopje 1000, Macedonia the former Yugoslav Republic of 38.
75 Route fide Lapoutroie, 68240, Kaysersberg, France 85.
Unit C-12-4, Level 12, Block C, Megan Avenue II, No.
77 Route fide Lapoutroie, 68240, Kaysersberg, France 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia 40.
Insurgentes Sur 1070, Piso 9, Col. Insurgentes San Borja, Del.
Hotel dEntreprise, Parc dActivities Tournebride, 44118, La Jurez, Ciudad fide Mxico, C. P. 03100, Mexico Chevroliere, France 87.
Centre daffaires Nordami, Bureau 203, 2eme etage, lot 43A, Zone Franche 42.
Route fide Marmagne, 18500, Mehun sur Yevre, France dexportation, 90 100 Tanger, Morocco 43.
Rue fide la Deviniere, B. P. 7, 45510 FR, Tigy, France 88.
Tanger, Zone Franche dExportation, ILot 11, Lot 5, Morocco 44.
Saint Amand, 50160, Torigni sur Vire, France 89.
Bedrijvenpark Twente 90, NL-7602 KD Almelo, Netherlands 45.
27 Rue du Tennis, 25110, Baume les Dames, France 90.
Usine fide La Fosse, B. P. No 8, 45720, Coullons, France 47.
ZAC Cabourg Village, 14390, Cabourg, France 48.
ZI La Plaine Eloyes, 88214, Remiremont, France 1 13 32 2 Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
DS Smith Group companies continued 34.
DS Smith Group companies continued Registered offices continued Ownership interest at 30 April 2017 91.
Carretera fide Daganzo Km 3,450- Poligono Industrial La Pea, Naves F1 a F8, A Directly held by DS Smith Plc F 75.9% ownership interest 92.
Hermesweg 2, 3771 ND, Barneveld, Netherlands 28806, Alcala fide Henares Madrid, Spain B 98.89% ownership interest G 51% ownership interest 93.
Clot fide Moja, 08734 Olerdola, Barcelona, Spain C 92% ownership interest H 50.1% ownership interest 94.
Wegastraat 2, 5015 BS, Tilburg, Netherlands 123. ctra.
28.300, Polig Ind, Fagober, Naves 6 y 7, 28802 D 80% ownership interest I 50% ownership interest 95.
Building C1, The Gate, 373 Neilson Street, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand Alcala fide Henares, Madrid, Spain E 78.22% ownership interest J 49.6% ownership interest 124.
Parque Industrial Juan Carlos I, C Canal Crespo, 13 Almussafes 46440 96.
TMF Administrative Services Nigeria Ltd, 43 Anthony Enahoro Street, Utako, K 37.5% ownership interest Abuja, Nigeria Valencia, Spain 97.
Level 5, Al Memar Tower, E-11 2, Islamabad, Pakistan 125.
Poligono Areta, calle Atxutxate s n, Huarte-Pamplona, Navarra, Spain Registered offices 126.
Polgono Industrial A Tomada, parcela 28-33, A Pobra do Caramial, 15949 A 98.
25 F Philam Tower, 8767 Paseo fide Roxas Avenue, Makati City, 1.
Zone dentreprises fide la Kruysstraete, B. P. 39, F-59470 Wormhout, France 1226, Philippines Corua, Spain 2.
Zone Industrielle du Pr fide la Barre, 38440, St-Jean fide Bournay, France 99.
Polgono Industrial O Pousadoiro 4, Parcela 1, 36617 Vilagarca fide Arousa, Aires, Argentina 51.
Zone Industrielle fide Chteaubernard, 16102, Cognac, France Pontevedra Galicia, Spain 100. gueda Aveiro, Raso fide Paredes 3754-209, Portugal 3.
Zone Industrielle fide Kevoasdoue, 29270, Carhaix, France 128.
Edificio Opcao Actual, Parque Industrial fide Oliveirinha, 3430 414 Carregal do 4.
Zone Industrielle, Voiveselles Croisette, 88800, B P 37, Vittel, France 129.
Industriestrasse 11, 4665 Oftringen, Switzerland Sal, Portugal 5.
Rua Mestra Ceclia do Simo, n. 378, 3885-593 Esmoriz, Ovar, Portugal 130.
1 21 Moo5 Factory G26, TFD Industrial Estate, Tambon Tasa-arn, Amphoe 6.
5, D-08309 Eibenstock, Germany Bangpakong, Chachoengsao Province, Thailand 103.
Via do Oriente, n. 18, escritrio 4, 1. piso, Parque das Naes, 1990 514 7.
4 Silivri, Istanbul, Turkey Lisboa, Portugal 8.
Ersteiner Strasse 7-9, D79346 Endingen am Kaiserstuhl, Germany 104.
24 Paleologu Street, 3rd District, Bucharesti, Romania 132.
1 Nida Kule Is Merkezi, Kat:7: Kadikoy, 9.
Hauptstrasse 54, 65347, Hattenheim, Germany Istanbul, 34732, Turkey 105.
2 Gibridnaya Street, Timashevsk Town, Krasnodoar Region 352708, 11.
Rollnerstrasse 14, D-90408 Nrnberg, Germany Russian Federation 134.
Avrora Business Park, Sadovnicheskaya str.
Unit No: I5-PF-39, Detached Retail I5, Plot No: JLT-PH1-RET-I5, Jumeirah 13.
Siemensstrasse 8, 50259 Pulheim, Germany Russian Federation Lakes Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates 14.
Office 9, 35 1 Dmitria Ulianova Street, Moscow 103031, Russian Federation 136.
Muir Road, Houstoun Industrial Estate, Livingston, West Lothian, 15.
1201 Windham Parkway, Suite D, Romeoville, Illinois, 60446, United States 110.
37000 Krusevac, Balkanska 72, Serbia Road, Minhang district, 201107, Shanghai, China 66.
10 8 International Commercial Centre, Casemates Square, Gibraltar 138.
525 W. Monroe Street, Suite 1600, Chicago, Illinois, 60661, United States 111.
44 Bulevar Vojvode Stepe, Novi Sad, Serbia 17.
PO Box 1010, 57022 Sindos Industrial Area, Thessaloniki, Greece 139.
70 W. Madison St, Ste 5750, Chicago, Illinois, 60602, United States 112.
PO Box 90, GR-72200 Ierapetra, Kriti, Greece 140.
9 E. Loockerman Street, Dover, County of Kent, fide 19901, United States 113.
Units 1607-8, 16th Floor, Citicorp Centre, 17 Whitfield Road, Causeway Bay, 141. c o The Corporation Trust Company, The Corporation Trust Center, 1209 114.
Dravska bb, Koprivnica Grad Koprivnica, Croatia Hong Kong Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, United States 115.
Cesta prvih borcev 51, 8280 Brestanica, Slovenia 21.
40 Philamere Road, Glenmore, Durban 4001, South Africa 23.
101-104 Banaji House, Flora Fountain, Fort, Mumbai 40000, India 118.
Del Sol 13, Torrejn fide Ardoz, 28850 Madrid, Spain 24.
2 F, Elegance Tower, Jasola District Centre, Old Mathura Road, New Delhi, 119.
Teplick 109, Martinves, 405 02 Jlov, Czech Republic 110025, India 120.
Carretera B. P. 2151 confluencia carretera C15, Sant Pere fide Riudevitlles, 26.
A-5 30, Basement, Behind Oriental Bank of Commerce, Paschim Vihar, New 08776, Barcelona, Spain 27. strupvej 30, 8500 Grenaa, Denmark Delhi, 110063, India 75.
ZI La Plaine Eloyes, 88214, Remiremont, France 132 Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
