FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 1 Accounting policies Corporate information The consolidated financial statements of Greene King plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 28 June 2017.
Greene King plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Statement of compliance The groups financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU as they apply to the financial statements of the group for the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2017 prior year 52 weeks ended 1 May 2016.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
They are presented in pounds sterling, with values rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, except where otherwise indicated.
A small number of minor changes have been made to reclassify exceptional and non-underlying items in the prior year.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of Greene King plc, its subsidiaries and its related parties, Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc.
Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group.
As Greene King plc has full control over both entities they are fully consolidated.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year end as the parent company with adjustments made to their financial statements to bring their accounting policies in line with those used by the group.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the group obtains control, and continue to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Going concern The directors have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Further detail is contained in the viability statement included in the strategic report on page 37.
Changes in accounting policies The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
New standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the groups financial statements.
Significant accounting policies Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or deemed cost on transition to IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to their estimated residual values over periods up to 50 years, and short leasehold improvements are depreciated to their estimated residual values over the shorter of the remaining term of the lease or useful life ofthe asset.
There is no depreciable amount if residual value is the same as, or exceeds, book value.
Plant and equipment assets are depreciated over their estimated lives, which range from three to 20 years.
Residual values, useful lives and methods of depreciation are reviewed for all categories of property, plant and equipment and adjusted, if appropriate, ateach financial year end.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use.
Profit or loss on derecognition is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is included in the income statement in the year of derecognition.
Intangible assets Operating lease intangibles The fair value attached to operating leasehold interests on acquisition are deemed to represent lease premiums and are carried as intangible assets.
The operating lease intangible is amortised over the period of the lease.
Brand intangibles Brand intangible assets recognised on acquisition are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives 15 years.
Business combinations and goodwill Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree.
The choice of measurement of non-controlling interests, either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, is determined on a  basis.
Acquisition costs incurred are taken to the income statement.
When the group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts of the acquiree.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred to the vendor is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value ofthe contingent consideration which are deemed to be an asset or a liability are recognised in the income statement.
If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, it should not be remeasured until it is finally settled within equity.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 85 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations and goodwill continued Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest over the net identifiable amounts of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in transactions separate to the business combinations, such as the settlement of pre-existing relationships or post-acquisition remuneration arrangements, are accounted for separately from the business combination in accordance with their nature and applicable IFRSs.
Identifiable intangible assets, meeting either the contractual-legal or separability criterion, are recognised separately from goodwill.
Contingent liabilities representing a present obligation are recognised if the acquisition date fair value can be measured reliably.
If the aggregate of the acquisition date fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for the non-controlling interest is lower than the fair value of the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and the fair value of any pre-existing interest held in the business acquired, the difference is recognised in the income statement.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment Property, plant and equipment Individual assets are grouped for impairment assessment purposes at the lowest level at which there are identifiable cash inflows independent of the cash inflows of other groups of assets.
An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is an indication of impairment.
If an indication exists, the group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount of each asset group.
An assets or cash-generating units recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
An impairment loss is recognised where the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying value of assets.
If there is an indication that any previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased, a reversal of the loss may be made only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amounts since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount only up to the carrying amount that would have resulted, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years.
Impairment losses and any subsequent reversals are recognised in the income statement.
Details of the impairment losses recognised in respect of property, plant and equipment are provided in note 14.
Goodwill Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the groups cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to those units.
Each unit or group of units to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and cannot be larger than an operating segment before aggregation.
Impairment is determined by the recoverable amount of an operating segment.
Where this is less than the carrying value of the operating segment animpairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
This loss cannot be reversed in future periods.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, any goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
Goodwill amortised prior to the conversion to IFRS on 3 May 2004 has not been reinstated and the net book value of goodwill at that date has been carried forward as the carrying value.
Prior to May 1998, goodwill was written off to reserves.
Such goodwill has not been reinstated and is not included in determining profit or loss on disposal.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are recognised when the group becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are derecognised when the group no longer controls the contractual rights that comprise the financial instrument, normally through sale or when all cash flows attributable to the instrument are passed to an independent third party.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through the income statement, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity investments or available-for-sale financial assets.
The group determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition and, where appropriate, re-evaluates this designation at each financial year end.
The group makes trade loans to publicans who purchase the groups beer.
Trade loans are non-derivative and are not quoted in an active market and have therefore been designated as Loans and receivables, carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses are recognised in income when the loans and receivables are derecognised or impaired, as well as through the amortisation process.
The group assesses at each balance sheet date whether any individual trade loan is impaired.
If there is evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred, the amount of loss is measured as the difference between the loans carrying amount and the expected future receipts, excluding future credit losses that have not been incurred, discounted at the loans original effective interest rate.
The loss is recognised in operating profit.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recorded at their original invoiced amount less an allowance for any doubtful amounts when collection of the full amount is no longer considered probable.
86 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Inventories Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Raw materials are valued at average cost.
Finished goods and work in progress comprise materials, labour and attributable production overheads where applicable, and are valued at average cost.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Forthe consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Property, plant and equipment held for sale Property, plant and equipment is classified as held for sale only if it is available for sale in its current condition, management are committed to the sale and a sale is highly probable and expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.
Property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal and is no longer depreciated or amortised.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs.
After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Finance costs and income Finance costs are expensed to the income statement using the effective interest method.
Finance income is recognised in the income statement using the effective interest method.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The group uses interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its variable rate loans, notes and bonds.
Interest rate swaps are initially measured at fair value, if any, and carried on the balance sheet as an asset or liability.
Subsequent measurement is at fair value and the movement is recognised in the income statement unless hedge accounting is adopted.
For interest rate swaps where hedge accounting isnot applied the fair value movement is analysed between pre-exceptional finance costs and exceptional finance costs.
Pre-exceptional finance costs includes cash payments or receipts on the interest rate swaps so as to show the underlying fixed rate on the debt with theremaining fair value movement which is generally the movement in the carrying value of the swap in the period reflected as an exceptional item.
For derivatives acquired at a non-zero fair value e. g. on acquisition the amortisation of the initial fair value is recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs to offset the cash payments or receipts.
Hedge accounting To qualify for hedge accounting the hedge relationship must be designated and documented at inception.
Documentation must include the groups risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge and formal allocation to the item or transaction being hedged.
The group also documents how it will assess the effectiveness of the hedge and carries out assessments on a regular basis to determine whether it has been, and is likely to continue to be, highly effective.
Hedges can be classified as either fair value hedging exposure to changes in fair value of an asset or liability, or cash flow hedging the variability in cash flows attributable to an asset, liability or forecast transaction.
The group uses certain of its interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
Cash flow hedge accounting The effective portion of the gain or loss on an interest rate swap is recognised in Other comprehensive income OCI, whilst any ineffective portion isrecognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts recognised in the OCI are transferred to the income statement in the same period that the financial income or expense is recognised, unless the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability whereby the amounts are transferred to the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, amounts previously recognised inOCI are held there until the previously hedged transaction affects the income statement.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, thecumulative gain or loss recognised in OCI is immediately transferred to the income statement.
Trade payables Trade payables are non-interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are discounted to present value where the effect of the time value of money is material using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market estimates of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
The amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
Off-market contract liabilities Off-market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition.
For leases where the current rentals are below market terms, the related asset is considered to be recognised as an operating lease in intangible assets.
For other acquired pubs an off-market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the present value of future market rate rentals.
The liability unwinds against the rental expense so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms.
The off-market contract liability is increased by the unwinding of the discount at acquisition using the effective rate applied in measuring the off-market contract liabilities at the date of acquisition and decreased by utilisation which is unwound against rental expense in the income statement so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 87 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Pensions and other post-employment benefits Defined benefit pension schemes The group operates two defined benefit pension schemes which require contributions to be made into separately administered funds.
The cost of providing benefits under the schemes is determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit actuarial method on an annual basis.
The current service cost is charged to operating profit.
Any remeasurement gains and losses are recognised in full in the group statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
When a settlement or curtailment occurs the obligation and related scheme assets are remeasured and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement in the same period.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability asset is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability asset by the discount rate both as determined at the start of the annual reporting period, taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit liability asset during the period as a result of contributions and benefit payments.
The defined benefit asset or liability recognised on the balance sheet comprises the present value of the schemes obligations less the fair value ofscheme assets.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the schemes or a reduction in future contributions to the schemes.
Defined contribution pension schemes The cost of the groups defined contribution pension schemes amounts to the value of contributions made.
Contributions are charged to the income statement as they become payable.
Share-based payments Certain employees and directors receive equity-settled remuneration, whereby they render services in exchange for shares or rights over shares.
Thefair value of the shares and options granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, at the date at which they were granted.
No account is taken inthe fair value calculation of any vesting conditions service and performance, other than market conditions performance linked to the price of the shares of the company.
Any other conditions that are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
The fair value of shares and options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity spread over the period in which the vesting conditions are fulfilled ending on the relevant vesting date.
The cumulative amount recognised as an expense reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired, adjusted for the estimated number of shares and options that are ultimately expected to vest.
The periodic charge or credit is the movement inthe cumulative position from beginning to end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because non-market performance and or service conditions have not been met.
Whereawards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service conditions are satisfied.
Own shares Own shares consist of treasury shares and shares held within an employee benefit trust.
The group has an employee benefit trust for the granting ofshares to applicable employees.
Own shares are recognised at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Subsequent consideration received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, with any difference between the sale proceeds from the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
No gain or loss is recognised in the performance statements on transactions in treasury shares.
Revenue Generally, revenue represents external sales excluding taxes of goods and services, net of discounts.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the group and is measured at the fair value of consideration receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, and other sales taxes or duty relating to brewing and packaging of certain products.
Revenue principally consists of drink, food and accommodation sales, which are recognised at the point at which goods or services are provided, and rental income, which is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and machine income, where net takings are recognised as earned.
The accrued value for rebates payable is included within other payables.
Supplier rebates Supplier rebates are included within operating profit as they are earned.
The accrued value at the reporting date is included within other receivables.
Operating leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Lease payments are recognised asan expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
Lease premiums paid on entering into or acquiring operating leases represent prepaid lease payments and are held on the balance sheet as current theportion relating to the next financial period or non-current prepayments.
These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The fair values attached to operating head leasehold interests on acquisitions are deemed to represent lease premiums, and are carried as intangible assets.
These operating leases are capitalised at cost and amortised over the period of the lease.
See Off-market contract liabilities for the accounting policy where the fair values of operating leases are a liability.
88 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Finance leases Leases of property, plant and equipment, where the group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership, are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are recognised at acquisition at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Theasset is then depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term.
A corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability to achieve aconstant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in finance costs.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company Limited being the difference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Taxes Income tax The income tax charge comprises both the income tax payable based on profits for the year and the deferred income tax.
It is calculated using taxation rates enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and is measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities.
Income tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is provided for using the liability method on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying values in the financial statements.
Deferred tax is recognised for all temporary differences except where the deferred tax arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset orliability in a transaction that is not a business combination that, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss or, in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the carry forward of unused tax losses can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured, on an undiscounted basis, at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities and they relate to the same taxable entity and same tax authority and when it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised in OCI and equity are recognised in OCI and equity respectively.
Uncertain tax positions Provision for uncertain tax positions is based on an assessment of the tax treatment of certain transactions.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless itisprobable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is probable that a liability will arise.
The group reviews its uncertain taxpositions each period in order to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Exceptional and non-underlying items and adjusted profitability measures Management use a range of measures to monitor and assess the groups financial performance.
These measures include a combination of statutory measures calculated in accordance with IFRS and alternative performance measures APMs.
These alternative performance measures include the following adjusted measures of profitability: operating profit before exceptional and non-underlying items: profit before tax, exceptional and non-underlying items PBTE : profit attributable to equity holders before exceptional and non-underlying items: and adjusted basic earnings per share.
We report these measures as we believe that they provide management and investors with useful additional information about the groups performance.
The above measures represent the equivalent IFRS measures but are adjusted to exclude items that we consider would prevent comparison of the groups performance both from one reporting period to another and with other similar businesses.
Exceptional and non-underlying items are not defined under IFRS.
Exceptional items are classified as those which are separately identifiable by virtue oftheir size, nature or expected frequency and therefore warrant separate presentation.
Non-underlying items are other items that we consider should be presented separately to allow a better understanding of the underlying performance of the business.
Presentation of these measures is not intended to be a substitute for or to promote them above statutory measures.
The groups income statement provides a reconciliation of the adjusted profitability measures, excluding exceptional and non-underlying items totheequivalent unadjusted IFRS measures.
Exceptional and non-underlying items are then further detailed in note 5 to the financial statements.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 89 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 1 Accounting policies continued Significant accounting policies continued Exceptional and non-underlying items and adjusted profitability measures continued Items that are considered to be exceptional or non-underlying and that are therefore separately identified in order to aid comparability may include thefollowing: Exceptional items: profits or losses resulting from the disposal of a business or investment: costs incurred in association with business combinations, such legal and professional fees and stamp duty that are excluded from the fair value of the consideration of the business combination: one-off restructuring and integration costs that are incurred either following a business combination or following a restructuring of the groups support functions.
These costs can be significant and would prevent year-on-year comparability of the groups trading if not separately identified: impairment charges in respect of tangible and intangible assets as a result of restructuring, business closure, underperformance of sites or fire damage: finance costs or income resulting from gains or losses upon the settlement of interest rate swap liabilities.
These amounts may be significant and are separately identified as the instruments they relate to would no longer form part of the groups ongoing capital structure: fair value gains and losses on the ineffective element of cash flow hedges and fair value movements in respect of derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss.
Such items are separately presented as movements may be both significant and volatile: and significant and or one-off tax settlements in respect of prior years including any related interest, and the tax impact of the items identified above are included as exceptional items.
These items are separately identified to allow management and investors to separately understand tax charges relating to in-year on-going activity and what relates to prior periods.
These amounts may be significant and are separately identified as the instruments they relate to would no longer form part of the groups ongoing capital structure: Non-underlying items may include: profit or loss on the disposal of property, plant and equipment.
The group disposes of properties that it no longer considers meet the ongoing needs of the business.
These profits or losses could be significant and volatile and are not reflective of the groups ongoing trading results: costs associated with property lease reversions and onerous leases.
The group may incur costs and recognise liabilities in respect of leasehold properties where the terms of the lease make them onerous or leases that have previously been disposed of but revert to the group under privity of contract.
Such costs may occur infrequently or could be significant and are not reflective of the groups ongoing trade: significant credits to the income statement resulting from the reversal of share-based payment charges recognised in prior years performance following the reassessment of the expected scheme: gains or losses resulting from the settlement of liabilities in respect of the groups pension schemes: finance costs or income includes the recycling to the income statement of cumulative gains or losses relating to settled swaps previously taken tothehedging reserve: the impact of changes in the statutory tax rates: the impact of changes to the tax base cost of the groups licensed estate and indexation: and other adjustment in respect of prior periods tax arises from finalising the tax returns for earlier periods and rolled over gains on the licensed estate.
New standards and interpretations not applied As at the date of approval of the financial statements there are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB and IFRIC with an effective date after the date of these financial statements and which have not been early adopted by the group.
These are expected to be applied as follows: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 and is a replacement of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
IFRS 9 covers the classification, measurement and derecognition of financial assets and financial liabilities, together with a new hedge accounting model and the new expected credit loss model for calculating impairment.
The new standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to EU adoption.
An initial assessment indicates that the adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers The IASB issued IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers in May 2014.
The new standard provides a single, five-step revenue recognition model, applicable to all sales contracts, which is based upon the principle that revenue is recognised when the control of goods or services is transferred to the customer.
This standard replaces all existing revenue recognition guidance under current IFRS and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, subject to EU adoption.
Initial assessments undertaken by the Group indicate that the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have material impact on its consolidated results and financial position, but is likely to result in additional disclosure requirements.
IFRS 16 Leases The IASB issued IFRS 16 Leases in January 2016.
The new standard provides a single lessee accounting model, requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value.
The new standard will be effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, subject to EU adoption, and replaces the existing leasing standard, IAS 17 Leases.
For lessors, there is little change to the existing accounting in IAS 17 Leases.
The group has determined that the application of IFRS 16 will have a material impact on its consolidated financial results and financial position.
This includes recognition of interest and amortisation expense in place of fixed rental expense in the income statement and the recognition of right of use assets and lease liabilities for its operating lease portfolio on the balance sheet.
There is no net cash flow impact on application of IFRS 16.
The group will conduct adetailed assessment to determine the full impact of IFRS 16 on its consolidated results and financial position.
90 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations not applied continued IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendment to IAS 7 The IASB issued the amendment in January 2016.
The improvements to disclosure relate to the statement of cash flows and require companies to provide information about changes in their financial liabilities.
This amendment is a response to requests from investors for information that helps them better understand changes in a company net debt.
The amendment will help investors to evaluate changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes from cash flows and non-cash flows such as foreign exchange gains and losses and becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1January 2017, subject to EU adoption.
The group has determined that the impact of IAS 7 will be limited to disclosure and will have no impact on its consolidated results and financial position.
IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments The IASB issued IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments in June 2017 to clarify application of recognition and measurement requirements in IAS 12 Income Taxes when there is uncertainty over income tax treatments, effective 1 January 2019.
Given the timing of the release the group will assess the impact of this standard in the coming period.
Other standards and interpretations that are relevant to the group have been assessed as having no significant financial impact or additional disclosure requirements at this time.
IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: IFRS 2 Amendments to IFRS 2: and the IASBs annual improvement process, 20142016.
Significant accounting judgments and estimates The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgments, estimates and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expense.
The group bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors deemed reasonable under the circumstances, including any expectations of future events.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and judgments considered to be significant are detailed below: Taxation Judgment is required when determining the provision for taxes as the tax treatment of some transactions cannot be finally determined until a formal resolution has been reached with the tax authorities.
Assumptions are also made around the assets which qualify for capital allowances and the level of disallowable expenses and this affects the income tax calculation.
Provisions are also made for uncertain exposures which can have an impact on both deferred and current tax.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the benefit will be obtained and tax provisions are made if it is possible that a liability will arise.
The final resolution of these transactions may give rise to material adjustments to the income statement and or cash flow in future periods.
The group reviews each significant tax liability or benefit each period to assess the appropriate accounting treatment.
Refer to notes 5, 10 and 25 for further details.
Share-based payments Judgment is required when calculating the fair value of awards made under the groups share-based payment plans.
Note 8 describes the key assumptions and valuation model inputs used in the determination of these values.
In addition estimates are made of the number of awards that will ultimately vest and judgment is required in relation to the probability of meeting non-market-based performance conditions and the continuing participation of employees in the plans.
Pension liabilities The present values of pension liabilities are determined on an actuarial basis and depend on a number of actuarial assumptions which are disclosed in note 9.
Any change in these assumptions will impact on the carrying amount of pension liabilities.
Note 9 describes the key assumptions used in the accounting for retirement benefit obligations.
Impairment of goodwill The group determines whether goodwill is impaired on at least an annual basis.
Details of the tests and carrying value of the assets are shown in note 13.
This requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Value-in-use calculations require assumptions to be made regarding the expected future cash flows from the cash-generating unit and choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
If the actual cash flows are lower than estimated, future impairments may be necessary.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment The group determines whether property, plant and equipment is impaired where there are indicators of impairment.
This requires an estimation of the value-in-use and fair value less costs of disposal at an individual pub level.
Note 14 describes the assumptions used in the impairment testing of property, plant and equipment together with an analysis of the sensitivity to changes in key assumptions.
Residual values Residual values of property are determined with reference to current market property trends.
If residual values were lower than estimated, an impairment of asset value and reassessment of future depreciation charge may be required.
Useful lives are reassessed annually which may lead to an increase or reduction in depreciation accordingly.
Property provisions The group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases where the property is closed or vacant and for properties where rental expense is in excess of income.
The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the experience of internal and external property experts.
However, changes to the expected method of exiting from the obligation could lead to changes in the level of provision recorded.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 2 Segment information At the start of the financial period Greene King reverted to three reportable segments, largely organised and managed separately according to the nature ofproducts and services provided, distribution channels and profile of customers.
The segments include the following businesses: Pub Company: Managed pubs and restaurants Pub Partners: Tenanted and leased pubs Brewing & Brands: Brewing, marketing and selling beer These are also considered to be the groups operating segments and are based on the information presented to the chief executive who is considered to be the chief operating decision maker.
No aggregation of operating segments has been made.
Transfer prices between operating segments are set on an arms length basis.
Unallocated assets liabilities comprise cash, borrowings, pensions, net deferred tax, net current tax, derivatives and indirect tax provisions.
EBITDA represents earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items and is calculated as operating profit before exceptionals adjusted for the depreciation and amortisation charge for the period.
92 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Segment information continued Management reporting and controlling systems Management monitors the operating results of its strategic business units separately for the purpose of making decisions about allocating resources and assessing performance.
Segment performance is measured based on segment operating profit or loss referred to as trading profit in our management and reporting systems.
Included within the corporate column in the table above are functions managed by a central division.
No information about geographical regions has been provided as the groups activities are predominantly domestic.
3 Revenue Revenue is analysed as follows: 2017 2016 m m Goods 2,069.1 1,920.6 Services 147.4 152.4 2,216.5 2,073.0 Revenue from services includes rent receivable from licensed properties of 53.5m 2016: 50.5m.
4 Operating expenses Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Cost of products sold recognised as an expense 769.7 769.7 748.7 748.7 Employment costs note 6 590.9 4.9 595.8 529.4 9.7 539.1 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 14 102.6 102.6 94.9 94.9 Amortisation note 13 10.0 10.0 9.8 9.8 Operating lease rentals: Minimum lease rentals payable 79.9 79.9 71.9 71.9 Other operating charges 251.9 63.5 315.4 226.1 40.0 266.1 Net profit on disposal note 5 3.4 3.4 23.8 23.8 1,805.0 65.0 1,870.0 1,680.8 25.9 1,706.7 Fees paid to the auditor during the period consisted of: 2017 2016 m m Audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.5 Audit of subsidiaries 0.2 0.1 Included in other operating charges 0.6 0.6 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 93 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 5 Exceptional and non-underlying items 2017 2016 NonNonExceptional underlying Exceptional underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Included in operating profit Acquisition and integration costs 10.8 10.8 17.5 17.5 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment note 14 58.6 58.6 32.2 32.2 Employee costs 3.7 3.7 Share-based payment credit 3.1 3.1 Net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill 3.4 3.4 23.8 23.8 Pension and post-employment liabilities credit 1.6 1.6 69.4 4.4 65.0 49.7 23.8 25.9 Included in financing costs Gain on settlement of interest rate swap liabilities 12.2 12.2 Amounts recycled from hedging reserve in respect of settled  11.8 11.8 Fair value losses on ineffective element of cash flow hedges 0.4 0.4 1.3 1.3 Fair value movements of derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 23.6 23.6 39.1 39.1 Interest on indirect tax provision note 25 0.4 0.4 Total exceptional and non-underlying items before tax 80.8 7.8 88.6 90.1 23.4 66.7 Tax impact of exceptional items 5.0 5.0 11.3 11.3 Tax impact of non-underlying items 2.8 2.8 0.1 0.1 Tax credit in respect of the licensed estate 3.2 6.3 9.5 5.8 27.8 33.6 Tax credit in respect of rate change 4.3 4.3 4.8 4.8 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 2.7 2.2 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.7 Total exceptional and non-underlying tax 5.5 15.6 21.1 17.4 33.1 50.5 Total exceptional and non-underlying items after tax 75.3 7.8 67.5 72.7 56.5 16.2 Exceptional operating costs Acquisition and integration costs are items of one-off expenditure, including legal and professional fees, the costs of dedicated integration project teams and redundancy costs, incurred in connection with the acquisition and integration of Spirit Pub Company.
During the period to 30 April 2017 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of 58.6m 2016: 32.2m.
This is comprised of an impairment charge of 77.7m 2016: 79.5m and reversal of previously recognised impairment losses of 19.1m 2016: 47.3m.
23.7m impairment has been recognised in respect of a small number of pubs and is driven by changes in the local competitive and trading environment at the respective sites, and 34.9m due to a decision taken to exit some sites during the financial year.
Impairment reversals have been recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows for previously impaired sites or increases to fair value less costs of disposal.
Non-underlying operating costs The net profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and goodwill of 3.4m 2016: 23.8m comprises a total profit on disposal of 38.2m 2016:50.6m and a total loss on disposal of 34.8m 2016: 26.8m.
The group incurred 3.7m of exceptional employee costs, which included restructuring costs and costs associated with changes to key management.
Inaddition a share-based payment credit of 3.1m was recognised which resulted from the reversal of charges recognised in earlier years following a reassessment of expected scheme performance.
The group recognised a 1.6m non-underlying credit in relation to pension settlement following the completion of a flexible retirement offer andpension increase exchange during the period.
Exceptional and non-underlying finance costs Following the issue of 300m secured bonds, a number of the groups swap liabilities were settled at a discount recognising a 12.2m exceptional gain.
The cash cost of settling this was 114.2m.
The swaps concerned were hedging cash flows relating to the Greene King A5 bond and floating rate bank loans.
These cash flows are still expected tooccur and therefore in accordance with IAS 39 the cumulative losses taken to the hedging reserve will be recycled to the income statement over the same period during which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
A non-underlying charge of 11.8m has been recognised in respect of this during the period.
During the prior period the group acquired as part of a business combination derivatives that are subsequently accounted for at fair value through profitand loss as opposed to existing derivatives which are designated in hedge relationships.
An exceptional charge of 23.6m 2016: 39.1m relates to the mark-to-market movement on these derivatives, excluding amortisation of fair value on acquisition which reduces the pre-exceptional finance costs that include interest paid note 24.
Mark-to-market movements are considered to be exceptional owing to their volatility and are shown separately to ensure pre-exceptional finance costs are more readily comparable each year.
Fair value amortisation is deemed to be a pre-exceptional item as it adjusts swap interest to a market rate.
94 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 Exceptional and non-underlying items continued Exceptional tax The exceptional tax credit in respect of the licensed estate relates to impairment.
On 6 June 2016 a formal agreement was reached with HMRC on a number of historical tax positions and on 22 July 2016 the Court of Appeal published its final decision on the Sussex case.
As a result the group settled income tax of 20.7m and interest of 12.2m during the period.
An income tax credit of 0.8m is included within adjustment in respect of prior periods referred to below.
The remaining historical tax position is an internal property arrangement for which discussions with HMRC are at an early stage see note 25.
Non-underlying tax The tax credit in respect of the licensed estate has arisen from movements in their tax base cost and indexation.
2 Act 2015 reduced the rate of corporation tax from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and the Finance Act 2016 further reduced the rate to 17% from 1 April 2020.
Both these rate reductions were substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and are therefore included in these accounts.
The net deferred tax asset has been calculated using the rates at which each temporary difference is expected to reverse.
The effect of these rate reductions is to reduce the deferred tax asset by a net 0.6m comprising a credit to the income statement of 4.3m, a charge to the group statement ofcomprehensive income of 3.6m and a charge to the group statement of changes in equity of 0.1m.
The adjustment in respect of prior periods tax arises from finalising the tax returns for earlier periods and revaluation and rolled over gains on the licensed estate.
6 Employment costs 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Wages and salaries 546.3 7.0 553.3 484.5 9.7 494.2 Other share-based payments note 8 2.3 3.1 0.8 6.2 6.2 Total wages and salaries 548.6 3.9 552.5 490.7 9.7 500.4 Social security costs 34.9 0.9 35.8 32.0 32.0 Other pension costs note 9 : Defined contribution 7.4 0.1 7.5 6.7 6.7 590.9 4.9 595.8 529.4 9.7 539.1 The total expense of share-based payments relates to equity-settled schemes.
The average number of employees during the period was as follows: 2017 2016 Pub Company 40,693 39,587 Pub Partners 64 50 Brewing & Brands 838 806 Corporate 884 1,043 42,479 41,486 The figures above include 25,473 2016: 20,638 part-time employees.
Details of directors emoluments are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 67.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 95 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 7 Finance costs income 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Bank loans and overdrafts 6.2 6.2 10.7 10.7 Other loans including recycling of cash flow hedge reserve 117.1 117.1 112.4 112.4 Ineffective element of cash flow hedges 0.2 0.4 0.2 1.6 1.3 0.3 Derivatives held at fair value through profit and loss 23.6 23.6 39.1 39.1 Gain on settlement of interest rate swap liabilities 12.2 12.2 Amounts recycled from hedging reserve in respect of settled interest rateliabilities 11.8 11.8 Interest on tax provisions 1.2 1.2 Interest on exceptional VAT provision 0.4 0.4 Unwinding of discount element of provisions and off-market contract liabilities 14.2 14.2 12.6 12.6 Net finance cost from pensions 1.7 1.7 1.9 1.9 Total finance costs 139.0 23.6 162.6 137.2 40.8 178.0 Bank interest receivable 1.0 1.0 1.5 1.5 Total finance income 1.0 1.0 1.5 1.5 Net finance costs 138.0 23.6 161.6 135.7 40.8 176.5 8 Share-based payment plans The group operates three types of share-based payment arrangements: a senior management long-term incentive plan LTIP growth LTIP, a deferred share scheme for other management and a general employee share option plan SAYE.
The general terms of the LTIP growth LTIP are detailed in the directors remuneration report on pages 61 to 67.
The total charge recognised for the period arising from share-based payment transactions including National Insurance contributions is 0.8m 2016: 7.1m.
A corresponding debit of 0.4m 2016: 6.2m credit has been recognised in equity.
The fair value of the LTIP growth LTIP issued since 2015 is considered to be equal to the share price on the date of issue.
For the award granted in the 2017 issue the fair value was 805p 2016: 863p per share option.
Future dividend payments have not been factored into the valuation as participants are entitled to dividend payments.
The fair value of previously issued LTIPs was estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of other equity-settled options is estimated using a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the grants and model inputs used to calculate the fair values of grants during the period were as follows: 2017 2016 SAYE SAYE Weighted average share price 682p 870p Exercise price 574p 726p Expected dividend yield 4.4% 3.9% Risk-free rate of return 0.6% 0.6% Volatility 22.5% 21.2% Expected life years 3.3 3.3 Weighted average fair value of grants in the year 107p 140p Risk-free rate of return is the yield on zero-coupon UK government bonds with the same life as the expected option life.
Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of the companys share price which assumes that the past trend in share price movement is indicative of future trends.
Expected life of options has been taken as the mid-point of the relevant exercise period.
This is not necessarily indicative of future exercise patterns.
No other feature of the equity instruments granted was incorporated into the fair value measurement.
96 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8 Share-based payment plans continued Movements in outstanding options and rights during the period are as follows:: ESOS Weighted average Number of options exercise price 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m p p Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.1 528 Exercised 0.1 528 Outstanding at the end of the period 528 Exercisable at the end of the period SAYE Weighted average Number of options exercise price 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m p p Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2.3 1.9 645 570 Granted 1.3 1.0 574 726 Forfeited 0.7 0.3 682 603 Exercised 0.1 0.3 503 462 Outstanding at the end of the period 2.8 2.3 610 645 Exercisable at the end of the period 0.2 0.2 620 453 LTIP Number of shares 2017 2016 m m Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2.2 2.1 Granted 1.0 1.0 Forfeited 0.3 0.2 Vested 0.6 0.7 Outstanding at the end of the period 2.3 2.2 Exercisable at the end of the period The options and shares granted under the LTIP are at nil cost: therefore, the weighted average exercise price for rights outstanding at the beginning andend of the period, and granted, forfeited and exercised during the period is nil 2016: nil.
SAYE and LTIP Options were exercised on a range of dates.
The weighted average share price through the period was 748p in 2017 and 856p in 2016.
The rights outstanding at 30 April 2017 under the LTIP had an exercise price of nil 2016: nil and a weighted average remaining contractual life of1.4years 2016: 1.4 years.
The outstanding options for the SAYE scheme had an exercise price of between 387p and 726p 2016: 368p and 726p and the weighted average remaining contractual life was 3.2 years 2016: 3.4 years.
9 Pensions The group maintains three defined contribution schemes, which are open to all new employees, and two 2016: three defined benefit schemes.
Duringthe year the assets and liabilities of the Belhaven Pension Scheme transferred into the Greene King Pension Scheme.
In the prior period the group also had a past service liability in relation to post-employment medical benefits previously offered to employees to cover any medical costs after employment.
This benefit is no longer given to employees.
Defined contribution pension schemes Member funds for the defined contribution schemes are held and administered by the Friends Life Group.
The total cost recognised in operating profit for the period was 7.5m 2016: 6.7m.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 97 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 9 Pensions continued Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits The group maintains the following defined benefit schemes which are closed to new entrants and are closed to future accrual.
Only administrative costs and deficit recovery contributions are incurred going forward.
All schemes have had full actuarial valuations in the last three years: Greene King Pension Scheme last valued as at April 2015 and Spirit Legacy Pension Scheme last valued April 2015.
Member funds for the defined benefit schemes are held in separate funds independently of the groups finances and are administered by pension trustees.
Pension benefits are related to members final salary at the earlier of retirement or closure to future accrual and their length of service.
Since the pension liability is adjusted for the changes to consumer price index, the pension plan is exposed to inflation, interest rate risks and changes inthe life expectancy for pensioners.
As the plan assets include significant investments in quoted equity shares of entities in the manufacturing and consumer product sector, the group is also exposed to equity market risk arising in the manufacturing and consumer products sector.
The significant increase in equities and bonds is due to the acquisition of Spirit.
The majority of the bonds relate to UK government and corporate bonds.
The total cost recognised in the income statement was: Pension schemes 2017 2016 m m Administrative costs 2.1 Total recognised in operating profit 2.1 Interest on pension scheme assets 26.3 26.5 Interest on scheme liabilities 28.0 28.4 Net interest on net defined liability 1.7 1.9 The values of the schemes liabilities have been determined by a qualified actuary based on the results of the last actuarial valuation, updated to 30 April 2017 using the following principal actuarial assumptions: 2017 2016 Discount rate 2.72.8% 3.4% Expected pension payment increases 2.7% 3.4% Rate of inflation RPI 3.3% 3.3% Rate of inflation CPI 2.2% 2.3% The mortality assumptions imply the following expectations of years of life from age 65: Man currently aged 40 22.1 24.4 Woman currently aged 40 23.5 26.5 Man currently aged 65 23.9 22.2 Woman currently aged 65 25.5 24.2 Mortality assumptions are based on standard tables adjusted for scheme experience and with an allowance for future improvement in life expectancy.
The table below shows the investment allocation of pension assets against the related liabilities of the pension schemes and other post-employment benefits: Pension plans value Post-employment benefits 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Investment quoted in active markets Equities 410.6 366.6 With profits 3.1 Bonds 425.7 370.2 Annuities 1.5 1.5 Unquoted investments Property 48.0 48.0 Cash 2.2 11.8 Total fair value of assets 888.0 801.2 Present value of scheme liabilities: Funded plans 899.2 853.5 Unfunded plans 1.3 Non-current liability recognised 11.2 52.3 1.3 98 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 Pensions continued Defined benefit pension schemes and post-employment benefits continued The movements in the pension schemes net liability and post-employment benefits liability during the period are as follows: Pension assets Pension liabilities Net pension liability 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m At beginning of period 801.2 324.4 853.5 383.6 52.3 59.2 Net acquisition note 17 480.4 477.5 2.9 Pension costs charged to income statement Administrative costs 2.1 2.1 Net interest 26.3 26.5 28.0 28.4 1.7 1.9 26.3 24.4 28.0 28.4 1.7 4.0 Benefits paid 33.4 35.7 33.4 35.7 Settlement 25.4 27.0 1.6 Remeasurement gains losses in other comprehensiveincome Return on plan assets excluding amounts included in net interest expenses 115.4 4.8 115.4 4.8 Actuarial changes arising from changes in demographic assumptions 9.8 5.1 9.8 5.1 Actuarial changes arising from changes in financial assumptions 92.3 19.9 92.3 19.9 Experience adjustments 4.4 15.1 4.4 15.1 115.4 4.8 78.1 0.3 37.3 4.5 Contributions paid employers 3.9 12.5 3.9 12.5 At end of period 888.0 801.2 899.2 853.5 11.2 52.3 Contributions on the Spirit pension scheme stopped in 2016: therefore, expected future contributions have reduced accordingly.
Post-employment benefits liability 2017 2016 m m At beginning of period 1.3 1.3 Released 1.3 At end of period 1.3 The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions assessed in isolation that have been used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below: Decrease increase in liability 2017 2016 m m 0.25% points increase in discount rate 40.5 37.1 0.25% points increase in inflation assumption 31.8 29.6 Additional one-year increase to life expectancy 36.6 27.1 The following payments, which are also the minimum funding requirements, are the expected contributions to the defined benefit plan in future years: 2017 2016 m m Within 1 year 3.3 3.3 Between 2 and 5 years 13.1 13.1 Between 5 and 10 years 9.7 12.4 26.1 28.8 The average duration of the defined benefit plan obligation at the end of the reporting period is 1819 years 2016: 18 years.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 99 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 10 Taxation 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total Consolidated income statement m m m m m m Income tax Corporation tax before exceptional items 43.3 43.3 32.6 32.6 Recoverable on exceptional and non-underlying items 11.1 11.1 3.2 3.2 Current income tax 43.3 11.1 32.2 32.6 3.2 29.4 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.8 0.8 1.0 0.5 1.5 43.3 10.3 33.0 31.6 3.7 27.9 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences 11.0 6.2 4.8 17.3 41.8 24.5 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.3 Tax credit in respect of rate change 4.3 4.3 4.8 4.8 11.0 10.8 0.2 17.8 46.8 29.0 Tax charge credit in the income statement 54.3 21.1 33.2 49.4 50.5 1.1 2017 2016 Group statement of comprehensive income m m Deferred tax Gain loss on actuarial valuation of pension liability 6.3 0.8 Net loss on revaluation on cash flow hedges 2.1 2.3 Tax charge in respect of rate change 3.6 7.1 7.8 4.0 Income tax Derivative financial instruments current taxable benefit 2.0 Total tax 5.8 4.0 2017 2016 Group statement of changes in equity m m Deferred tax Share-based payment future taxable benefit 0.6 3.4 Tax charge in respect of rate change 0.1 0.4 Deferred tax reported in equity 0.5 3.8 Income tax Share-based payments current taxable benefit 3.0 Total tax reported in equity 0.5 0.8 Reconciliation of income tax expense for period The effective rate of taxation is lower 2016: lower than the full rate of corporation tax.
The differences are explained below: 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 184.9 189.8 Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax 19.9% 2016: 20.0% 36.8 38.0 Effects of: Expenses not allowable for tax purposes 0.9 1.1 Impact of deferred tax in respect of licensed estate 1.1 32.6 Impact of deferred tax being at different rate to income tax 1.8 0.6 Impact of change in tax rate on deferred tax balances 4.3 4.8 Adjustment in respect of prior periods income tax 0.8 1.5 Adjustment in respect of prior periods deferred tax 0.3 0.3 Income tax expense credit reported in the income statement 33.2 1.1 100 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10 Taxation continued Income tax payable The income tax liability of 12.6m 2016: 30.3m includes an assessment of the expected payments on uncertain tax positions which have yet to be agreed or are in dispute with HMRC.
Deferred tax The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax liability Accelerated capital allowances 24.2 30.8 Rolled over gains and property revaluation 15.3 29.6 Operating leases 25.4 28.7 Other temporary differences 14.5 8.7 79.4 97.8 Deferred tax asset Post-employment liabilities 2.0 9.7 Derivative financial instruments 75.7 79.4 Share-based payment 0.1 1.6 Off-market contract liabilities 48.4 53.7 Capital losses carried forward 5.5 11.7 Trading losses carried forward 1.0 2.5 132.7 158.6 Net deferred tax asset 53.3 60.8 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset income tax assets and income tax liabilities and when it is the intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities have therefore been offset and disclosed on the balance sheet as follows: 30 April 2017 1 May 2016 m m Deferred tax liability 9.8 17.9 Deferred tax asset 63.1 78.7 Net deferred tax asset 53.3 60.8 The deferred tax included in the income statement is as follows: 2017 2016 Before Before exceptional Exceptional exceptional Exceptional and nonand nonand nonand nonunderlying underlying underlying underlying items items Total items items Total m m m m m m Deferred tax in the income statement Accelerated capital allowances 4.7 11.3 6.6 3.6 4.0 0.4 Rolled over gains and property revaluations 14.3 14.3 47.6 47.6 Operating leases 1.7 1.6 3.3 1.6 3.4 5.0 Post-employment liabilities 0.6 0.3 0.3 1.5 1.2 0.3 Other temporary differences 0.4 5.4 5.8 0.8 1.5 0.7 Derivative financial instruments 2.7 0.6 3.3 2.2 4.0 1.8 Share-based payments 0.5 1.5 2.0 1.7 0.4 1.3 Off-market contract liabilities 2.3 3.0 5.3 2.5 6.3 8.8 Capital losses carried forward 6.2 6.2 8.2 8.2 Tax losses carried forward 1.5 1.5 10.5 10.5 Deferred tax expense 11.0 10.8 0.2 17.8 46.8 29.0 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 101 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 10 Taxation continued Deferred tax continued The movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the period are shown below: Rolled over Accelerated gains and Other capital property Operating temporary allowances revaluation leases differences Total Deferred tax liabilities m m m m m At 3 May 2015 33.7 63.8 97.5 Credit to the income statement 0.4 47.6 5.0 1.6 54.6 Acquired note 17 2.5 13.4 33.7 10.3 54.9 At 1 May 2016 30.8 29.6 28.7 8.7 97.8 Charge credit to the income statement 6.6 14.3 3.3 5.8 18.4 At 30 April 2017 24.2 15.3 25.4 14.5 79.4 Capital Trading PostOther Off-market losses losses employment temporary Share-based contract carried carried liabilities differences Derivatives payments liability forward forward Total Deferred tax assets m m m m m m m m At 3 May 2015 12.1 0.9 47.1 1.9 6.4 68.4 Charge to equity comprehensive income 1.5 2.5 3.8 7.8 Charge credit to the income statement 0.3 0.9 1.8 1.3 8.8 8.2 10.5 25.6 Acquired note 17 0.6 33.0 2.2 62.5 13.5 13.0 123.6 At 1 May 2016 9.7 79.4 1.6 53.7 11.7 2.5 158.6 Charge to equity comprehensive income 7.4 0.4 0.5 7.3 Charge to the income statement 0.3 3.3 2.0 5.3 6.2 1.5 18.6 At 30 April 2017 2.0 75.7 0.1 48.4 5.5 1.0 132.7 There are no income tax consequences attaching to the payment of dividends by Greene King plc to its shareholders.
At 30 April 2017, the group had unused trading losses of 5.3m 2016: 12.6m and unused capital losses of 809.7m 2016: 815.5m.
Adeferred tax asset of 1.1m 2016: 2.5m has been recognised in respect of trading losses and a deferred tax asset of 5.5m 2016: 11.7m in respect of capital losses where tax losses are expected to be utilised against future profits and gains.
Current legislation allows all of the groups tax losses to be carried forward for an unlimited period.
Factors that may affect future tax charges The Finance No.
The effect of these rate reductions is to reduce the deferred tax asset by a net 0.6m comprising a credit to the income statement of 4.3m, a charge to the group statement of comprehensive income of 3.6m and a charge to the group statement of changes in equity of 0.1m.
11 Dividends paid and proposed 2017 2016 m m Declared and paid in the period Interim dividend for 2017 8.8p 2016: 8.45p 27.2 26.2 Final dividend for 2016 23.6p 2015: 21.8p 72.9 67.1 100.1 93.3 Proposed for approval at AGM Final dividend for 2017 24.4p 2016: 23.6p 75.6 72.9 Total proposed dividend for 2017 33.2p 2016: 32.05p 102.8 99.1 Dividends on own shares have been waived.
102 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share has been calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of 151.7m 2016: 190.9m by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period of 309.4m 2016: 296.2m.
Diluted earnings per share has been calculated on a similar basis taking account of 0.8m 2016: 1.6m dilutive potential shares under option, giving a weighted average number of ordinary shares adjusted for the effect of dilution of 310.2m 2016: 297.8m.
There were no 2016: nil anti-dilutive share options excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
The performance conditions for share options granted over 2.4m 2016: 1.6m shares have not been met in the current financial period and therefore the dilutive effect of the number of shares which would have been issued at the period end has not been included in the diluted earnings per share calculation.
Adjusted earnings per share excludes the effect of exceptional and non-underlying items and is presented to show the underlying performance of the group on both a basic and diluted basis.
Earnings Basic earnings per share Diluted earnings per share 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Adjusted earnings per share m m p p p p Profit attributable to equity holders 151.7 190.9 49.0 64.4 48.9 64.1 Exceptional and non-underlying items 67.5 16.2 21.8 5.5 21.8 5.4 Profit attributable to equity holders before exceptional andnon-underlying items 219.2 207.1 70.8 69.9 70.7 69.5 13 Goodwill and other intangible assets Operating Total Brand lease other intangibles intangibles intangibles Goodwill m m m m Cost At 3 May 2015 700.9 Disposal 13.0 Additions acquisition note 17 16.1 168.3 184.4 434.0 At 1 May 2016 16.1 168.3 184.4 1,121.9 Disposal 1.3 1.3 13.1 At 30 April 2017 16.1 167.0 183.1 1,108.8 Impairment and amortisation At 3 May 2015 Amortisation 0.9 8.9 9.8 At 1 May 2016 0.9 8.9 9.8 Amortisation 1.1 8.9 10.0 Disposal 0.4 0.4 At 30 April 2017 2.0 17.4 19.4 Net book value At 30 April 2017 14.1 149.6 163.7 1,108.8 At 1 May 2016 15.2 159.4 174.6 1,121.9 At 3 May 2015 700.9 Other intangibles consists of brand intangibles and operating lease intangibles both recognised as part of the acquisition made during the prior year seenote 17.
Brand intangibles are amortised over the expected life of the asset 15 years.
Operating lease intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis over the length of the lease with a weighted average useful life of 26 years.
All goodwill was recognised as part of business combinations.
As from 3 May 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, goodwill is no longer amortised but issubject to annual impairment testing.
Goodwill has been allocated to operating segments, the lowest group of cash-generating units in the group at which goodwill is monitored internally, based on the extent that the benefits of acquisitions flow to that segment.
The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: 2017 2016 m m Pub Company 691.6 699.9 Pub Partners 182.3 187.1 Brewing & Brands 234.9 234.9 1,108.8 1,121.9 Goodwill disposed of in the year is the amount of goodwill allocated to parts of operating segments disposed of during the year.
The amount disposed iscalculated based on the relative value of the operation disposed and the portion of the operating segment retained.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 103 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 13 Goodwill and other intangible assets continued Goodwill disposed of in the year 2017 2016 m m Pub Company 8.3 4.3 Pub Partners 4.8 8.7 13.1 13.0 The recoverable amount of each segment was determined on a value-in-use basis, using cash flow projections based on 1-year budgets approved by the board, and in all cases exceeded the carrying amount.
The key assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations are budgeted EBITDA, the pre-tax discount rate and the growth rate used to extrapolate cash flows beyond the budgeted period.
Budgeted EBITDA is based on past experience adjusted to take account of the impact of expected changes to sales prices, volumes, business mix and margin based on the current estate.
Cash flows are discounted at 8.65% 2016: 8.65% which is used as an approximation for the risk-adjusted discount rate of the relevant operating segment.
As risk factors are considered to be similar in each of the groups operating segments the same level of discount rate is applied to all.
A growth rate of 1.75% in Pub Company 2016: 1.75%, 2.50% in Pub Partners 2016: 2.50% and 1.00% in Brewing & Brands 2016: 1.00% has been used to extrapolate cash flows.
The growth rate is below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments and reflects trends in trading performance.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The calculation is most sensitive to changes in the assumptions used for budgeted cash flow, the pre-tax discount rate and the growth rate.
Management considers that reasonably possible changes in assumptions would be an increase in discount of 1 percentage point, a reduction in growth rate of 1 percentage point or a 10% reduction in budgeted cash flow.
As an indication of sensitivity, when applied to the value-in-use calculation in isolation or individually neither a 1% reduction in growth rate, a 10% reduction in budgeted cash flow, nor a 1% increase in the discount rate would have resulted in an impairment of goodwill in the period.
14 Property, plant and equipment Licensed estate Other Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings equipment buildings equipment Total m m m m m Cost Balances at 3 May 2015 2,130.3 681.3 66.1 130.3 3,008.0 Additions during the period 96.6 92.7 0.2 2.8 191.9 Acquisitions 1,265.0 142.7 5.7 1,413.4 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 2.6 2.6 Disposals during the period 45.8 11.2 1.0 0.4 58.4 Balances at 1 May 2016 3,443.5 905.5 70.6 132.7 4,552.3 Additions during the period 76.2 92.4 5.4 12.9 186.9 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 6.1 0.7 6.8 Disposals during the period 58.1 23.2 4.1 0.1 85.5 Balances at 30 April 2017 3,455.5 974.0 71.9 145.5 4,646.9 Depreciation and impairment Balances at 3 May 2015 178.5 496.3 14.9 82.9 772.6 Provided during the year 2.0 86.6 1.8 4.5 94.9 Written back on disposals 10.8 7.3 0.2 0.1 18.4 Impairment see below 74.7 4.8 79.5 Impairment reversal see below 47.3 47.3 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 0.3 0.3 Balances at 1 May 2016 196.8 575.6 16.5 92.1 881.0 Provided during the year 14.4 81.2 2.2 4.8 102.6 Written back on disposals 0.3 15.0 0.1 0.1 15.5 Impairment see below 77.7 77.7 Impairment reversal see below 19.1 19.1 Transfer to property, plant and equipment held for sale 1.2 0.5 1.7 Balances at 30 April 2017 268.3 641.3 18.6 96.8 1,025.0 Net book value At 30 April 2017 3,187.2 332.7 53.3 48.7 3,621.9 At 1 May 2016 3,246.7 329.9 54.1 40.6 3,671.3 At 3 May 2015 1,951.8 185.0 51.2 47.4 2,235.4 104 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Property, plant and equipment continued The licensed estate relates to properties, and assets held within those properties, licensed to trade i. e. managed, tenanted and leased houses.
Otherassets relate to property, plant and equipment associated with unlicensed properties i. e. brewing, distribution and central assets.
The net book value of land and buildings comprises: 2017 2016 m m Freehold properties 3,078.3 3,171.9 Leasehold properties 50 years unexpired term 104.6 75.6 Leasehold properties 50 years unexpired term 57.6 53.3 3,240.5 3,300.8 Valuation The licensed estate properties were valued by the groups own professionally qualified chartered surveyors, as at 20 December 2003, on the basis of existing use value, in accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
A representative sample of properties was also valued by external valuers Gerald Eve Chartered Surveyors and Property Consultants, who confirmed that the values were consistent with their appraisal.
Frozen revaluation has been taken as deemed cost on the transition to IFRS: therefore, no historic cost analysis is provided.
Up to 1999 the brewery and depots were valued at depreciated replacement cost and other properties at open market value.
These valuations have been retained but they have not been updated.
Subsequent additions have been included at cost or, in the case of acquisitions, at fair value.
Charges over assets Included in land and buildings are properties with a net book value of 1,593.8m 2016: 1,446.2m and 1,522.4m 2016: 1,519.1m over which there isa first charge in favour of the securitised debt holders of the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively.
Assets held under finance leases The group leases various licensed properties, offices and other commercial properties and other assets under finance leases.
The leases have various terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
Included in property, plant and equipment above are properties held under finance leases with a net book value of 21.4m 2016: 22.3m.
Future capital expenditure 2017 2016 m m Contracted for 8.1 7.6 Impairment of property, plant and equipment During the period to 30 April 2017 the group has recognised a net impairment loss of 58.6m 2016: 32.2m.
The recoverable amount for assets impaired was based on value in use of 13.1m 2016: 25.2m and fair value less costs of disposal of 64.6m 2016: 47.3m.
The recoverable amount for assets with impairment reversal was based on value in use of 9.4m 2016: 43.0m and fair value less costs of disposal of 9.7m 2016: 4.6m.
These are analysed between the groups principal reporting segments as shown below: 2017 2016 Reversal of Net Reversal of Net Impairment impairment impairment Impairment impairment impairment m m m m m m Pub Company 62.2 14.7 47.5 56.6 33.5 23.1 Pub Partners 14.4 4.4 10.0 17.4 13.8 3.6 Corporate 1.1 1.1 5.5 5.5 77.7 19.1 58.6 79.5 47.3 32.2 The group considers that each of its individual pubs is a cash-generating unit CGU.
Each CGU is reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Whenindicators of impairment are identified the carrying value of the CGU is compared to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the CGUs fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
The group estimates value in use using a discounted cash flow model.
The key assumptions used are expected cash flow projections for the next year, the discount rate applied to those cash flows of 8.65% 2016: 8.65% and the projected cash flows extrapolated using an average growth rate of 1.75% in Pub Company 2016: 1.75% and 2.50% in Pub Partners 2016: 2.50% which are below the long-term average growth rate for the operating segments and reflect trends in trading performance.
Cash flow projections relating to individual CGUs have been made based on historic trends adjusted for managements estimates of medium-term trading prospects.
Estimates of fair value less costs of disposal are based on an external valuation with the latest valuation being performed in 2016 17.
The valuation considers assumptions such as current and future projected income levels, which take account of the location and quality of the pub.
In addition recent market transactions in the sector and potential alternative use values have been considered.
The valuation techniques applied are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
As they use significant unobservable inputs they are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, as further explained in note 24.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 105 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 14 Property, plant and equipment continued Impairment of property, plant and equipment continued The impairment charge recognised in relation to a small number of pubs was driven by changes in the local competitive and trading environment at their respective sites and decisions taken to exit some sites where current market values are lower than book values.
The impairment reversals have been recognised following an improvement in trading performance and an increase in amounts of estimated future cash flows for previously impaired sites.
Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The level of impairment is predominantly dependent upon judgments used in arriving at fair values, future growth rates and the discount rate applied to cash flow projections.
The net impact on the impairment charge of applying different assumptions to fair values, the growth rates used to calculate cash flow projections and in the pre-tax discount rates would be as follows: Increased net impairment resulting from: A 10% reduction in fair A 1% increase A 1% reduction value less cost of disposal in discount rate in growth rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Pub Company 22.7 9.8 8.4 11.7 8.4 11.7 Pub Partners 2.2 2.2 2.7 3.1 2.7 3.1 24.9 12.0 11.1 14.8 11.1 14.8 No impairment was recognised in relation to the Spirit estate and as such the above sensitivities only include the Greene King estate.
15 Financial assets 2017 2016 m m Trade loans net of provision 10.1 9.8 Total current 10.1 9.8 Trade loans net of provision 15.8 16.3 Other financial assets 0.5 0.5 Total non-current 16.3 16.8 Trade loans are net of provisions of 5.1m 2016: 5.1m.
During the year 0.3m 2016: 0.3m of the provision was utilised and 0.3m 2016: 1.3m of new provision was created.
All trade loans that are neither past due nor impaired are expected to be fully recoverable.
All significant overdue balances are fully provided for.
Trade loans are advanced to customers on terms linked to supply terms such that returns are greater than interest income.
The fixed rate trade loans amounted to 18.8m 2016: 19.2m and variable rate trade loans amounted to 12.2m 2016: 12.0m.
Included in fixed rate loans are 15.7m of loans with settlement related to purchase levels 2016: 16.4m.
The write down of these loans has been taken on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the loan as an approximation of the settlement.
The fixed rate trade loans had a weighted average interest rate of 0.3% 2016: 0.5% and a weighted average period of 3.30 years 2016: 3.93 years.
Interest rates on variable rate trade loans are linked to base rate.
2017 2016 Trade loans net of provision m m Balance at beginning of period 26.1 29.9 Advances 6.1 4.1 Repayments 6.3 6.9 Provisions 1.0 Balance at end of period 25.9 26.1 106 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Subsidiary undertakings The subsidiary undertakings are: Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership Directly held by Greene King plc 1 Greene King Developments Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King EBT Investment Jersey Limited Holding company Jersey Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King GP Limited Dormant England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Investments Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Pension Scheme Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Properties Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Pubs Limited Property England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retailing Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 4 Norman Limited Holding company Guernsey Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Realpubs Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Rushmere Sports Club Limited Financing England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Capital Pub Company Limited Holding company England & Wales Parent Ordinary shares 100% Indirectly held by Greene King plc 1 Allied Kunick Entertainments Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Ashes Investment LP Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Aspect Ventures Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 AVL Pubs No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 AVL Pubs No.
2 Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 Belhaven Brewery Company Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 Belhaven Finance Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 Belhaven Pubs Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Capital Pub Company Trading Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Chef & Brewer Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 3 City Limits Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Cleveland Place Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Cloverleaf Restaurants Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 CPH Palladium Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Dearg Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Freshwild Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 G. K. Holdings No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Acquisitions No.
3 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Acquisitions No.
2 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Brewing and Retailing Limited Brewing and retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Leasing No.
1 Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Leasing No.
2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Neighbourhood Estate Pubs Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retail Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Retailing Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Greene King Services Limited Employment England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Hardys & Hansons Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Huggins and Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 LFR Group Limited Financing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Mountloop Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Narnain Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
Registered office: Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT.
Registered office: Belhaven Brewery, Brewery Lane, Dunbar, East Lothian EH42 1PE.
Company is limited by guarantee.
Registered office: Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 16 Subsidiary undertakings continued Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership 1 Old English Inns Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Open House Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Premium Casual Dining Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 2 Premium Dining Restaurants and Pubs Limited Retailing Scotland Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 R. V. Goodhew Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Deferred ordinary 100% shares 1 Realpubs Developments Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Realpubs II Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food North East No.
1 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food North West No.
3 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food South East No.
4 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Food South West No.
2 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Sapphire Rural Destinations No.
5 Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit AKE Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Faith Limited Property England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Legacy Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit PSC Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Redwood Bidco Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit SGL Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Acquisition Properties Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1,3 Spirit Acquisitions Guarantee Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary n a n a 1 Spirit Acquisitions Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Financial Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 Spirit Finco Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 4 Spirit Funding Limited Non-trading Cayman Islands Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Equity Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Pension Trustee Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Northampton Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail South Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Group Retail Pensions Limited Pension trustee England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Intermediate Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% Spirit Managed Funding Limited Preference shares 100% 1 Spirit Managed Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Managed Inns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Derwent Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Holdco Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Investments Limited Financing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Leased Limited Leasing of public houses England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Managed Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Services Limited Administration England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
108 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Subsidiary undertakings continued Proportion of voting Principal Country of rights and Subsidiary undertakings activity incorporation Held by Holding ownership 1 Spirit Pub Company SGE Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Supply Limited Procurement England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pub Company Trent Limited Pub retailing England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Pubs Parent Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Spirit Retail Bidco Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Springtarn Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Chef & Brewer Group Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 The Nice Pub Company Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Group Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Holdings Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Tom Cobleigh Limited Holding company England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1 Whitegate Taverns Limited Non-trading England & Wales Subsidiary Ordinary shares 100% 1.
17 Business combinations In the prior period the group completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company plc creating the UKs leading managed pub company.
The group acquired 100% of the share capital for consideration of 763.1m, made up of 89,095,959 shares of Greene King plc with a market value of 8.565 per share on completion.
Fair value of assets acquired m Property, plant and equipment 1,413.4 Brand intangibles 16.1 Operating leases intangible assets 168.3 Inventories 9.0 Trade receivables 7.5 Other receivables prepayments 33.6 Property, plant and equipment held for sale 6.0 Cash and cash equivalents 147.5 Trade payables 52.9 Other payables accruals 160.7 Off-market contract liabilities 312.7 Retirement benefit asset 2.9 Provisions 30.4 Deferred tax 68.7 Derivatives 165.2 Finance lease 22.7 Borrowings 799.3 Fair value of net assets acquired 329.1 Goodwill 434.0 Consideration 763.1 The net cash flow impact of the acquisition is: m Special dividend paid to Spirit Pub Company shareholders 43.2 Cash acquired 147.5 104.3 Fair value of debt and finance leases acquired 822.0 717.7 Goodwill arose primarily due to expected operating synergies, in recognition of managements proven track record, and as a result of opportunities that are expected to arise to optimise performance in the enlarged groups pub estate.
The amount of goodwill expected to be deductible for tax purposes is nil.
The goodwill arising on acquisition was allocated to the operating segments based on the forecast level of synergies expected by operating segment.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 109 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 17 Business combinations continued Fair value of assets acquired continued The fair value of properties acquired including operating leases was established following a review of properties that was carried out by external qualified surveyors.
Properties have been revalued at their existing use value giving consideration to the highest and best use of the properties.
Thevalues of other current assets and liabilities have been adjusted to amounts to be realised or paid respectively.
Off-market contract liabilities of 312.7m were recognised upon acquisition where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms.
For leases where the current rentals are below market terms, an intangible asset has been recognised see note 13.
For other acquired pubs an off-market liability has been calculated as the difference between the present value of future contracted rentals and the present value of future market rate rentals see note 25.
External qualified surveyors were engaged to provide a formal evaluation of current market rentals for the acquired leased pub assets.
Rental growth rates of 2.02.5% were taken from market consensus forecasts for the retail sector and a discount rate of 5% was applied, being the estimated incremental borrowing costs of the acquired business, to arrive at the present value of market rentals.
Brand intangibles of 16.1m were recognised to the extent that a format provides a profit benefit versus similar unbranded pubs.
Brand intangibles arebeing amortised over a useful economic life of 15 years.
18 Inventories 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and work in progress 5.4 4.7 Finished goods and goods for resale 36.7 34.2 Consumable stores 2.9 2.4 45.0 41.3 19 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 m m Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Total non-current 0.1 0.1 Trade receivables 73.9 63.2 Other receivables 19.4 19.5 Total current 93.3 82.7 Trade and other receivables are non-interest bearing.
The ageing analysis of trade receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Neither past due nor impaired 65.8 55.5 Past due but not impaired: Less than 30 days 2.5 3.6 3060 days 2.4 1.0 Greater than 60 days 3.2 3.1 73.9 63.2 Trade receivables are shown net of a provision of 5.4m 2016: 5.4m.
20 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 202.1 155.2 Short-term deposits 83.4 69.0 Liquidity facility reserve note 23 157.5 157.5 Cash and cash equivalents for balance sheet 443.0 381.7 Bank overdrafts note 23 5.8 Cash and cash equivalents for cash flow 443.0 375.9 Included within cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits is 112.0m 2016: 109.1m and 88.9m 2016: 113.0m held within securitised bank accounts which are only available for use by the Greene King secured financing vehicle and the Spirit secured financing vehicle respectively.
The Greene King secured financing vehicle comprises Greene King Retailing Parent Limited and one of its subsidiaries and the Spirit secured financing vehicle comprises Spirit Pubs Debenture Holdings Limited and certain of its subsidiaries.
The liquidity facility reserve is restricted cash as explained in note 23.
Interest receivable on cash and short-term deposits is linked to base rate and is received either monthly or in line with the term of the deposit.
110 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Property, plant and equipment held for sale 2017 2016 m m Property, plant and equipment held for sale 5.1 2.3 At the period end, property, plant and equipment held for sale of 5.1m 2016: 2.3m represents pubs that are being actively marketed for sale with expected completion dates within one year.
The value of property, plant and equipment held for sale represents the expected net disposal proceeds.
Further details on the valuation of fair value less costs of disposal are held in note 14.
The impairment charge on reclassification to assets held for sale forthese sites was nil 2016: nil.
22 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 m m Trade payables 110.0 112.2 Other payables: Other taxation and social security costs 91.8 87.2 Accruals and deferred income 209.9 194.2 Interest payable 17.6 30.4 Total current 429.3 424.0 Other payables 1.9 1.5 Total non-current 1.9 1.5 Trade payables and other payables are non-interest bearing.
Interest payable is mainly settled monthly, quarterly or semi-annually throughout the year, in accordance with the terms of the related financial instrument.
Interest payable also includes interest on uncertain tax positions of 1.9m 2016: 13.8m.
The group has facilities of 25.0m 2016: 25.0m available with interest linked to base rate.
Bank loans unsecured In the year the group amended and extended its five-year revolving credit facility of 400m, of which 170m 2016: 315m was drawn down at the year end with a carrying value of 168.3m 2016: 315.0m which included 1.7m 2016: nil of fees.
Any amounts drawn down bear interest at a margin above LIBOR and the group is charged a utilisation fee based on the proportion of facility drawn.
Commitment interest is charged on the undrawn portions.
Interest is payable at each renewal date, which vary in maturity.
Although any individual draw-downs are repayable within 12 months of the balance sheet date, the group expects to renew this funding and immediate renewal is available under the 400m facility until October 2021.
Final repayment of the total drawn-down balance is due as one payment on the agreement repayment date.
Greene King secured financing vehicle The group has issued various tranches of bonds in connection with the securitisation of pubs operated by Greene King Retailing Limited.
The bonds are secured over the properties and their future income streams and were issued by Greene King Finance plc.
In May 2016 the group issued an additional 300m of secured loan notes with a fixed coupon of 4.06% tranche A6 in connection with the securitisation of an additional 89 of the groups pubs.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 111 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 23 Borrowings continued Greene King secured financing vehicle continued The groups securitised debt issued by Greene King Finance plc consists of the following tranches: 1 Carrying value m Last Nominal value Interest repayment Weighted 2 3 Tranche m 2017 2016 Interest rate % period average life A1 104.3 103.3 112.8 Floating 6.11 2031 5.8 years A2 232.5 230.4 235.7 Fixed 5.32 2031 9.3 years A3 61.4 60.6 72.6 Floating 6.09 2021 2.4 years A4 258.9 257.7 257.6 Fixed 5.11 2034 11.4 years A5 235.1 235.1 242.9 Floating 3.93 2033 9.9 years A6 290.6 285.8 Fixed 4.06 2035 10.0 years 4 B1 120.9 120.1 120.0 Fixed floating 5.7 2034 16.2 years B2 99.9 99.5 99.3 Floating 6.92 2036 18.3 years 1,403.6 1,392.5 1,140.9 1.
Carrying value is net of related deferred finance fees.
Includes the effect of interest rate swap rates on the floating rate notes.
The groups interest rate swap arrangements are discussed in note 24.
This assumes notes are held until final maturity.
B1 tranche switches to floating rate L 1.80% in March 2020 with a swap rate of 5.16%-L.
The interest payable on each of the floating tranches is as follows: Interest Total rate Interest interest 1 Tranche payable rate swap rate A1 L 0.95% 5.16%-L 6.11% A3 L 1.25% 4.84%-L 6.09% A5 L 2.50% 1.43%-L 3.93% B2 L 2.08% 4.84%-L 6.92% 1.
For variable rate bonds the interest rate payable is 3-month LIBOR L plus the margin as shown.
Repayment of the nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, over the period shown above.
Payment of interest is made on quarterly dates for all classes of bond.
All of the floating rate bonds are fully hedged using interest rate swaps.
The Class A1, A2, A3, A4, A5 and A6 bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal, and have preferential interest payment and repayment rights over the Class B bonds.
The Class B1 and B2 bonds rank pari passu in point of security, principal repayment andinterest payment.
The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Greene King Retailing Limited, a group company.
These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and restrictions on its ability to move cash to other group companies.
During the year the group settled mark-to-market liabilities in respect of the A5 swap and as a result the swap was re-couponed from a fixed rate of5.26% to a market rate of 1.43%.
Liquidity facility In 2014 the standby liquidity facility provider to the Greene King secured financing vehicle, the Royal Bank of Scotland, had its short-term credit rating downgraded below the minimum prescribed in the facility agreement and as such the group exercised its entitlement to draw the full amount of the facility and hold it in a designated bank account.
The corresponding balance of 157.5m 2016: 157.5m held in this bank account is included within cash and cash equivalents.
The amounts drawn down can only be used for the purpose of meeting the securitisations debt service obligations should there ever be insufficient funds available from operations to meet such payments.
As such these amounts are considered to be restricted cash.
112 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 Borrowings continued Spirit secured financing vehicle Following the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group now has various secured loan notes issued by Spirit Issuer plc.
The secured loan notes have been secured by way of fixed and floating charges over various property assets of Spirit Pub Company Managed Ltd and Spirit Pub Company Leased Ltd.
Carrying value includes premium arising from fair value adjustment.
Includes the cost of a financial guarantee provided by Ambac and the effect of interest rate swap rates on the floating notes.
The following tranches switch to floating rate A4 L 2.78% in December 2018 with swap rate 4.56%-L and Class A5 L 0.75% in December 2028 with swap rate 4.56%-L. 5.
The following floating rate notes will have margin step-up to Class A6 L 3.30% in September 2018 and Class A7 L 5.45% in September 2018.
For variable rate bonds the rate payable is 3-month LIBOR L plus the margin as shown and for the A1, A2, A3 and A6 bonds includes guarantee fees payable to Ambac.
Repayment of the nominal is made by quarterly instalments, in accordance with the repayment schedule, within the date ranges shown above.
Interestispaid quarterly in arrears on all secured loan notes.
The debenture bonds rank pari passu in point of security and as to payment of interest and principal.
The debenture is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Spirit Pub Company Managed Ltd and SpiritPub Company Leased Ltd, both of which are group companies.
These include covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of debenture properties and restrictions on its ability to move cash to other group companies and utilisation of disposal proceeds.
On 28 June 2017 the group repaid the 27.7m Class A3 secured loan note issued by Spirit Issuer plc at par.
Obligations under finance leases Upon the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company on 23 June 2015, the group acquired leases of property, plant and equipment where it substantially has all therisks and rewards of ownership, which have been classified as finance leases.
In the balance sheet a corresponding liability has been included as a finance lease obligation.
The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as follows: 2017 2016 Present Present Minimum value Minimum value lease of future lease of future payments obligations payments obligations m m m m Within 1 year 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 Within 1 to 5 years 4.9 4.0 5.3 4.5 Over 5 years 52.0 16.0 53.1 16.1 58.5 21.6 60.0 22.2 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 113 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 24 Financial instruments The primary treasury objectives of the group are to identify and manage the financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs, and provide secure and competitively priced funding for the activities of the group.
If appropriate, the group uses financial instruments and derivatives tomanage these risks.
The principal financial instruments held for the purpose of raising finance for operations are bank loans and overdraft, secured bonds, cash and short-term deposits.
Other financial instruments arise directly from the operations of the group, such as trade and other receivables, trade payables and trade loans.
Derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, are used to manage the interest rate risks related to the groups operations and financing sources.
No speculative trading in derivative financial instruments is undertaken.
The main risks from the groups financial instruments are interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
The policy for managing each of these risks is set out below.
Interest rate risk Exposure to changes in interest rates on the groups borrowings is reviewed with regard to the maturity profile and cash flows of the underlying debt.
The group uses a mixture of fixed and floating interest rate debt with exposure to market interest rate fluctuations primarily arising from the floating rate instruments.
The groups aim is that no less than 95% of the overall interest exposure should be at a fixed rate.
The group enters into interest rate swaps to manage the exposure.
Certain swaps are designated as cash flow hedges at the date of contract included within the accounts, and tested for effectiveness every 6 months.
In accordance with IFRS 7, the group has undertaken sensitivity analysis on its financial instruments which are affected by changes in interest rates.
Thisanalysis has been prepared on the basis of a constant amount of net debt, a constant ratio of fixed to floating interest rates, and on the basis of the hedging instruments in place at 30 April 2017 and 1 May 2016.
The analysis relates only to balances at these dates and is not representative of the year asawhole.
The following assumptions were made: Balance sheet sensitivity to interest rates applies only to derivative financial instruments, as the carrying value of debt and deposits does not change asinterest rates move.
Gains and losses are recognised within other comprehensive income or the income statement in line with the accounting policies of the group.
Cash flow hedges were assumed to be effective or ineffective on the same basis as those as at the year end.
Based on the groups net position at the year end, a 1% increase or decrease in interest rates would change the groups profit before tax by approximately 47.8m 2016: 50.6m and the groups OCI by 65.4m 2016: 82.9m.
An increase in interest rates would increase the groups profit.
Whilst cash flow interest rate risk is largely eliminated, the use of fixed rate borrowings and derivative financial instruments exposes the group to fair value interest rate risk such that the group would not significantly benefit from falls in interest rates and would be exposed to unplanned costs, such asbreak costs, should debt or derivative financial instruments be restructured or repaid early.
The percentage of net debt that was fixed as at the year end was 95.8% 2016: 96.1%, in line with the groups target of fixing at least 95% of all net debt.
Liquidity risk The group mitigates liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations combined with bank borrowings and long-term debt.
The groups objective is to maintain a balance between the continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of overdrafts and bank loans.
The group also monitors the maturity of financial liabilities to avoid the risk of a shortage of funds.
The standard payment terms that the group has with its suppliers is 60 days following month end 2016: 60 days following month end.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than 1 month.
Short-term flexibility isachieved through the use of short-term borrowing on the money markets under the groups revolving credit facility.
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the groups financial liabilities at 30 April 2017 and 1 May 2016 based on contractual undiscounted payments including interest.
Credit risk is the risk of default by the counterparty todischarge their obligation and the maximum exposure of the group is the carrying amount of these instruments.
The credit risk on cash and cash equivalents is limited by investment of surplus funds with banks and financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by international credit agencies.
The policy for third party trading is that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to regular credit verification procedures.
Receivable balances are also monitored on an ongoing basis and provided against where deemed necessary to limit the exposure to bad debts toanon-significant level.
There is no significant collateral held and there are no significant concentrations of credit risk within the group.
Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting i Greene King secured financing vehicle At 30 April 2017 the group held 4 2016: 4 interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of 500.7m 2016: 530.0m, which are designated cash flow hedges against 500.7m 2016: 530.0m of variable rate bonds.
These swaps are hedges of the A1, A3, A5 and B2 tranches, receiving a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and paying a fixed rate of 5.155% on the A1 tranche, 4.837% on the A3 tranche, 1.426% on the A5 tranche and 4.837% on the B2 tranche.
The weighted average fixed rate of the swaps was 3.3% 2016: 5.1%.
In addition, the group holds 1 2016: 1 forward starting swap commencing when the B1 notes switch from fixed rate interest to floating rate in March 2020.
This swap will receive a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 5.155%.
The 5 interest rate swaps are held on the balance sheet at fair value of 146.6m 2016: 214.6m.
The contract maturity dates range from September 2021 to March 2036.
Retrospective quantitative hedge effectiveness testing is performed and the bonds and related interest rate swaps have the same critical terms excluding credit risk.
Changes in cash flow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve to the extent that the hedges are effective.
The interest rate swaps have been assessed as highly effective during the period and are expected to remain highly effective over their remaining contract lives.
The ineffectiveness amounting to 0.2m loss 2016: 0.3m gain has been recognised within finance costs income.
ii Unsecured bank loans At 30 April 2017 the group held no interest rate swap contracts for the unsecured bank loans.
At 1 May 2016 the group held 2 interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of 100m, designated as a hedge of the cash flow interest rate risk of the 315m drawn down from the revolving credit facility in the year.
The interest rate swaps were held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of 34.6m.
The cash flows occurred quarterly based onavariable rate of interest based on LIBOR.
In the year, the group settled interest rate swap liabilities in respect of 2 swaps, one designated a hedge of the A5 secured bond and the other designated a hedge of the groups unsecured bank loan.
A loss of 11.8m was recycled from the hedging reserve to the income statement in respect of these swaps and the remaining losses recognised in the hedging reserve will be recycled over the period over which the hedged forecast cash flows affect profit or loss.
The swap designated a hedge of the A5 bond was amended to reflect market terms and remained in place at the year end and the swap designated a hedge of the unsecured bank loan was cancelled.
In addition a swap held as a hedge of the unsecured bank loans matured in the year.
Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting At 30 April 2017 the group held 3 2016: 3 interest rate swap contracts for a nominal value of 349.7m 2016: 376m.
The swaps, which do not qualify for hedge accounting are in respect of the A1, A2, A3, A6 and A7 tranches of Spirit bonds, receive a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and pay afixed rate of 6.681% on class A1, A2 and A6 and 4.529% on class A3 and A7.
The weighted average fixed rate of the swaps was 6.3% 2016: 6.2%.
The fixed rate payable on the interest rate swaps associated with the A1, A2 and A6 bonds increases to 6.791% from September 2018.
In addition, the group holds 2 2016: 2 forward starting swap contracts commencing when the class A4 and A5 notes switch from fixed rate interest to floating rate in December 2018 and December 2028, respectively.
The swaps will receive a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR and pay a fixed rate of 4.555%.
Upon the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, the swaps were deemed ineffective hedges and therefore do not qualify for hedge accounting, with movements in their fair value being recognised in the income statement.
The interest rate swaps are held on the balance sheet as a fair value liability of198.1m 2016: 191.7m.
The cash flows occurred quarterly based on a variable rate of interest based on LIBOR.
The fair value movement in the year splits into cash payments made of 21.0m 2016: 21.7m recognised in pre-exceptional finance costs net ofamortisation of fair value on acquisition of 13.9m 2016: 12.3m.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 115 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 24 Financial instruments continued Financial instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting continued These amounts are included within pre-exceptional profits as they can be deemed to be the market rate of the acquired swaps.
In the year, there was a partial break in the swaps resulting in a cash payment of 3.2m.
The remainder of the fair value movement is recognised as a charge in exceptional finance costs amounting to 23.6m 2016: 39.1m as it is considered to be more volatile and its inclusion in pre-exceptional profit would hinder year-on-year comparability of performance.
Where the nominal value of the derivative exceeds that of the related secured note for example, due to early repayment of floating rate notes the group will seek to eliminate the over-hedging where this is financially practicable.
At 30 April 2017, there are 2.9m 2016: 5.7m of interest swaps outstanding on cancelled floating rate notes which relate to the Spirit secured debt.
Fair values Set out in the table below is a comparison of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the groups financial instruments.
The fair values of the financial assets and liabilities are included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced liquidation or sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: Cash and cash equivalents comprising cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits approximates to the carrying amount stated in the accounts.
Trade receivables approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Financial assets these are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method and fair value is deemed to be the same as this.
Overdrafts approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Long-term loans based on quoted market prices in the case of the securitised debt: approximates to the carrying amount in the case of the floating rate bank loans and other variable rate borrowings.
Interest rate swaps calculated by discounting all future cash flows by the market yield curve at the balance sheet date and adjusting for, where appropriate, the groups and counterparty credit risk.
The changes in credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships.
Trade payables and accruals approximates to the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
Finance lease obligations and off-market contract liabilities excludes off-market lease liability estimated by discounting future cash flows using rates currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities.
Fair Carrying Fair Carrying value value value value Hierarchical 2017 2017 2016 2016 classification m m m m Financial liabilities Overdraft Level 2 5.8 5.8 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Secured debt: Issued by Greene King Finance plc Level 1 1,478.0 1,392.5 1,158.0 1,140.9 Issued by Spirit Issuer plc Level 1 776.0 777.6 757.3 788.7 Floating rate bank loans Level 2 168.3 168.3 315.0 315.0 Liquidity facility loan Level 2 157.5 157.5 157.5 157.5 Interest rate swaps Level 2 344.8 344.8 440.9 440.9 Trade payables and accruals Level 2 334.8 334.8 318.3 318.3 Finance lease obligations Level 2 21.6 21.6 22.2 22.2 Off-market contract liabilities Level 2 21.1 21.1 22.6 22.6 Financial assets Cash Level 2 285.5 285.5 224.2 224.2 Trade receivables Level 2 73.9 73.9 63.2 63.2 Liquidity facility reserve Level 2 157.5 157.5 157.5 157.5 Financial assets Level 3 26.4 26.4 26.6 26.6 Carrying values of the secured debt issued by Greene King Finance plc are stated net of any deferred finance fees which amounted to 11.1m 2016: 6.9m.
The carrying values of the secured debt issued by Spirit Issuer plc include premium arising from fair value adjustments of 7.9m 2016: 8.2m.
Floating rate bank loan notes are stated net of deferred finance fees of 1.7m 2016: nil.
116 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24 Financial instruments continued Hierarchical classification of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value IFRS 13 requires that the classification of financial instruments at fair value be determined by reference to the source of inputs used to derive fair value.
The classification uses the following three-level hierarchy: Level 1 unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
During the periods ending 30 April 2017 and 1 May 2016 there were no transfers between levels 1, 2, or 3 fair value measurements.
Capital risk management The group aims to maximise shareholder value by maintaining a strong credit rating and a core level of debt which optimises the weighted average cost of capital WACC and shareholder value.
A number of mechanisms are used to manage net debt and equity levels together referred to as capital as disclosed on the balance sheet, as appropriate in light of economic and trading conditions.
To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares.
No changes were made to the objectives, policies or processes during the period.
The group monitors capital using several measures including fixed charge cover, the ratio of net debt to EBITDA and free cash flow debt service coverage.
All covenants in relation to the securitisation vehicles and bank loans have been fully complied with.
The boards dividend policy is to maintain a minimum dividend cover of 2 times adjusted basic earnings per share.
25 Off-market contract liabilities and provisions Off-market Property Indirect tax Total liabilities leases provisions provisions m m m m At 3 May 2015 6.6 6.6 Acquisitions note 17 312.7 7.4 23.0 343.1 Unwinding of discount element of provisions 12.2 0.4 12.6 Provided for during the period 0.4 0.4 Utilised during the period 25.0 0.4 25.4 At 1 May 2016 299.9 14.0 23.4 337.3 Unwinding of discount element of provisions 13.8 0.4 14.2 Provided for during the period 4.4 2.2 6.6 Realised 6.3 1.0 7.3 Utilised during the period 22.0 1.9 23.9 At 30 April 2017 285.4 15.9 25.6 326.9 Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 30 April 2017 1 May 2016 Off-market Property Indirect tax Off-market Property Indirect tax liabilities leases provisions Total liabilities leases provisions Total m m m m m m m m Current 21.3 1.3 25.6 48.2 22.4 1.3 23.4 47.1 Non-current 264.1 14.6 278.7 277.5 12.7 290.2 285.4 15.9 25.6 326.9 299.9 14.0 23.4 337.3 Off-market contract liabilities Off-market contract liabilities are recognised where contracts are at unfavourable terms relative to current market terms on acquisition.
For acquired leases where the current rentals are below market terms, an operating lease intangible asset has been recognised see note 13.
The liability unwinds against the rental expense so that the income statement charge reflects current market terms over an average period of 18 years 2016: 19 years.
The remainder of the balance held relates to an unfavourable guarantee contract.
Property leases The provision for property leases has been set up to cover operating costs of vacant or loss-making premises as well as dilapidation requirements.
Payments are expected to be ongoing on these properties for an average of 15 years 2016: 15 years.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 117 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 25 Off-market contract liabilities and provisions continued Indirect tax provisions During a previous period the Greene King group received VAT refunds of 7.0m and prior to its acquisition the Spirit Pub Company group received VATrefunds of 17.9m from HMRC in respect of gaming machines following a ruling involving The Rank Group plc Rank that the application of VATcontravened the EUs principle of fiscal neutrality.
HMRC successfully appealed the decision in October 2013 and the Greene King group was therefore required to repay the VAT refund of 7.0m and associated interest of 1.7m.
However, HMRC did not seek to recover the VAT refunded tothe Spirit Pub Company of 17.9m and associated interest of 6.1m because it had accepted a guarantee that it would only repay this VAT if Ranks litigation is finally determined in HMRCs favour.
Ranks latest appeal was rejected by the Supreme Court in July 2015 and the group is currently awaitingthe outcome of related litigation.
In addition the group has made a provision of 1.5m for stamp duty land tax SDLT that may arise as a consequence of settling the only other historical tax position with HMRC, an internal property arrangement implemented in 2012.
Discussions with HMRC are at a relatively early stage and disclosing the range of possible outcomes may be prejudicial to the groups position which it will continue to defend robustly.
26 Share capital 2017 2016 Number Number of issued Share of issued Share shares capital shares capital m m m m Called up, allotted and fully paid At beginning of period 309.2 38.6 219.7 27.5 Issue of share capital Spirit acquisition 89.1 11.1 Issue of share capital share options exercised 0.7 0.1 0.4 At end of period 309.9 38.7 309.2 38.6 Details of options granted and outstanding are included in note 8.
27 Reserves Share premium account Share premium represents the excess of proceeds received over the nominal value of new shares issued.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents capital contributions received and amounts recognised on the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, being thedifference between the value of the consideration and the nominal value of the shares issued as consideration.
Capital redemption reserve Capital redemption reserve arose from the purchase and cancellation of own share capital, and represents the nominal amount of the share capital cancelled.
Hedging reserve Hedging reserve adjustments arise from the movement in fair value of the groups derivative instruments used as an effective hedge, in line with theaccounting policy disclosed in note 1.
Amounts recycled to income are included within finance costs in the income statement.
Own shares Own shares relate to shares held in treasury, held by the employee benefit trust or purchased to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus scheme.
At 30 April 2017 nil shares 2016: nil were held in treasury, 0.1m shares 2016: 0.04m were held by the employee benefit trust and nil 2016: nil were held to fulfil awards under the deferred share bonus scheme.
The market value at 30 April 2017 of the treasury shares was nil 2016: nil, of the shares held by the employee benefit trust was 0.2m 2016: 0.3m and of the shares held for the deferred share bonus scheme was nil 2016: nil.
The employee benefit trust is independently managed and has purchased shares in order to satisfy outstanding employee share options and potential awards under the long-term incentive plan.
At the year end nil 2016: nil treasury shares and nil 2016: nil shares in the employee benefit trust were allocated to meet awards under the long-term incentive plan.
A transfer of 1.6m 2016: 4.7m from own shares to retained earnings has been made to reflect transfers to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan and options exercised under the executive share option plan and reflects the weighted average cost of own shares.
During the period nil 2016: nil shares were repurchased at a cost of nil 2016: nil to fulfil awards made under the deferred share bonus scheme with nil 2016: nil shares transferred to individuals to satisfy awards.
The employee benefit trust purchased 0.8m shares 2016: nil at a cost of 1.6m 2016:nil and 0.74m 2016: 0.57m shares were transferred to satisfy awards under the long-term incentive plan.
Goodwill The cumulative amount of goodwill written off to retained earnings in respect of acquisitions made prior to May 1998 amounts to 89.7m.
118 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 28 Working capital and non-cash movements 2017 2016 m m Increase in inventories 3.7 0.2 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 10.4 4.9 Increase decrease in trade and other payables 24.4 28.7 Decrease in off-market contract liabilities 22.0 25.0 Decrease in provisions 1.9 Other non-cash movement 3.1 Share-based payment expense 2.7 6.2 Difference between defined benefit pension contributions paid and amounts charged 3.9 10.4 Operating exceptional and non-underlying items 14.4 25.0 Working capital and other movements 29.2 75.1 29 Analysis of and movements in net debt 2017 2016 m m 1 Cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits 285.5 224.2 1 Liquidity facility reserve 157.5 157.5 Overdrafts 5.8 Current portion of borrowings 62.2 47.0 Liquidity facility loan 157.5 157.5 Non-current portion of borrowings 2,297.8 2,219.8 Closing net debt 2,074.5 2,048.4 1.
Included in cash and cash equivalents on the balance sheet.
Movement in net debt 2017 2016 m m Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 67.1 165.6 Proceeds advances of borrowings 65.0 Repayment of principal securitised debt 55.0 44.0 Repayment of bank loans 145.0 Repayment of principal finance leases 0.6 Securitised bond issuance 300.0 Debt acquired through acquisitions note 17 822.0 Finance issue costs 7.1 Increase in net debt arising from cash flows 25.2 677.4 Other non-cash movements 0.9 2.3 Increase in net debt 26.1 679.7 Opening net debt 2,048.4 1,368.7 Closing net debt 2,074.5 2,048.4 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 119 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to the accounts continued For the fifty-two weeks ended 30 April 2017 30 Financial commitments The group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties and items of plant and machinery.
The terms of the leases vary but typically on inception a property lease will be for a period of up to 30 years and plant and machinery will be for up to 6 years.
Most property leases have an upwards-only rent review based on open market rents at the time of the review.
Future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within 1 year 80.5 81.9 Between 1 and 5 years 304.6 315.2 After 5 years 1,201.9 1,281.7 1,586.9 1,678.8 Operating leases for which an off-market liability has been recognised on acquisition have been included in the above.
The group leases part of its licensed estate and other non-licensed properties to tenants.
The majority of lease agreements have terms of between 6 months and 25 years and are classified for accounting purposes as operating leases.
Most of the leases with terms of over 3 years include provision for rent reviews on either a 3-year or 5-year basis.
Future minimum lease rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 45.5 47.0 Between one and five years 131.5 145.0 After five years 124.5 133.1 301.5 325.1 Future minimum lease rentals include 5.0m 2016: 1.5m receivable in respect of non-cancellable subleases.
31 Related party transactions No transactions have been entered into with related parties during the period.
Greene King Finance plc and Spirit Issuer plc are structured entities set up to raise bond finance for the group, and as such are deemed to be related parties.
The results and financial position of the entities have been consolidated.
Compensation of directors and other key management personnel of the group 2017 2016 m m Short-term employee benefits including National Insurance contributions 5.1 4.9 Post-employment pension and medical benefits 0.6 0.5 Termination benefits 1.0 Share-based payments 0.1 2.3 5.8 8.7 Key management personnel Key management personnel are deemed to be those employees who are directors of Greene King plc or its subsidiaries.
Directors interests in an employee share incentive plan Details of the options held by executive members of the board of directors are included in the remuneration report.
No options have been granted tothe non-executive members of the board of directors under this scheme.
32 Post balance sheet events Final dividend A final dividend of 24.4p per share 2016: 23.6p amounting to a dividend of 75.6m 2016: 72.9m was proposed by the directors at their meeting on 28 June 2017.
These financial statements do not reflect the dividend payable.
Borrowings On 28 June 2017 the group repaid the 27.7m Class A3 secured loan note issued by Spirit Issuer plc at par.
33 Contingent liabilities The group has provided guarantees totalling 0.4m at 30 April 2017 2016: 0.8m in respect of free trade customers bank borrowings.
120 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017
