Shareholder information Financial diary Registered office and advisers 5 September 2017 Annual General Meeting Secretary and 5 October 2017 Ex-dividend date for final dividend Registered Office 1 November 2017 Payment of final dividend Iain Simm DS Smith Plc 7 December 2017 Announcement of half-year results for the six months ended 350 Euston Road 31 October 2017 London NW1 3AX 5 April 2018 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend Registered in England No: 1377658 1 May 2018 Payment of interim dividend Auditors 28 June 2018 Announcement of full year results for the year ended 30 April 2018 Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square Provisional date London EC4A 3BZ Solicitors Company website Dividends Allen & Overy LLP One Bishops Square The Companys website at Shareholders who wish to have their London E1 6AD www.
com contains the latest dividends paid directly into a bank or information for shareholders, including building society account should contact Principal clearing bank press releases and an updated financial the Registrars.
In addition, the Registrars The Royal Bank of Scotland diary.
E-mail alerts of the latest news, are now able to pay dividends in 90 foreign 280 Bishopsgate press releases and financial reports currencies.
This service enables the London EC2M 4RB about DS Smith Plc may be obtained payment of your dividends directly into by registering for the e-mail news alert your bank account in your home currency.
Stockbrokers service on the website.
For international payments, a charge is Citigroup deducted from each dividend payment to Citigroup Centre cover the costs involved.
Please contact the Share price information 33 Canada Square Registrars to request further information.
Canary Wharf The latest price of the Companys ordinary London E14 5LB shares is available from the FT Cityline Share dealing services service.
To access this service, telephone J. P. Morgan Cazenove 44 0 9058 171 690.
For call charges, The Registrars offer a real-time telephone 25 Bank Street please check with your provider as and internet dealing service for the UK.
Alternatively click Further details including terms and Registrars on www.
rates can be obtained by logging on to the DS Smiths ticker symbol is SMDS.
co. uk dealing Equiniti recommended that you consult your or by calling 0345 603 7037.
Lines are Aspect House financial adviser and verify information open between 8am and 4.30pm, UK time, Spencer Road obtained from these services before Monday to Friday.
Lancing making any investment decision.
West Sussex BN99 6DA Registrars queries Registrars Information on how to manage Please contact the Registrars at the your shareholdings can be found at above right address to advise of a change https: help.
The pages of address or for any enquiries relating to at this web address provide answers to dividend payments, lost share certificates commonly asked questions regarding or other share registration matters.
The shareholder registration, links to Registrars provide on-line facilities at downloadable forms and guidance notes.
Once you have If your question is not answered by the registered you will be able to access information provided, you can send your information on your DS Smith Plc enquiry via secure e-mail from these pages.
shareholding, update your personal You will be asked to complete a structured details and amend your dividend form and to provide your shareholder payment instructions on-line without reference, name and address.
You will having to call or write to the Registrars.
also need to provide your e-mail address if this is how you would like to receive your response.
In the UK you can telephone 0371 384 2197.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday.
For call charges, please check with your provider as costs may vary.
DS Smith Plc Find us on 350 Euston Road Regents Place London NW1 3AX Telephone 44 0 20 7756 1800 www.
com Online communications Sustainability Results and presentations, investor and DS Smith publishes a separate shareholder information are available in sustainability report.
The report describes the investors section of our website: the environmental, social and economic perspectives of DS Smiths sustainability www.
com investors initiatives, with additional information available on our website: Annual reports www.
com company sustainability Current and archived annual reports are available in the investors section DS Smith worldwide of our website: Find out more about our global divisions www.
com investors annual-reports and the countries in which we operate and get in touch with us: People www.
com contact locations DS Smith is made up of a team of c. 26,000 Printed in the UK by Principal Colour Ltd on Lumi employees across 37 countries.
More Silk made from FSC certified fibre information about our people and career Principal Colour Ltd are certified to the ISO 14001 opportunities is available in the people Environmental Management System.
sectionof our website: Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc London www.
