GLOSSARY Investment terminology AAII Bear American Association of Individual Investors sentiment survey showing the mood of individual investors Bullish Neutral Bearish Discount or Premium A description of the difference between the share price and the net asset value per share.
The size of the discount or premium is calculated by subtracting the share price from the net asset value per share and is usually expressed as a percentage % of the net asset value per share.
If the share price is higher that the net asset value per share, the result is a premium.
If the share price is lower than the net asset value per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
Gearing Calculated using the Association of Investment Companies definition.
Total assets, less current liabilities before deducting any prior charges such as borrowings minus cash cash equivalents divided by Shareholders funds, expressed as a percentage.
NAV per share pence The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
The NAV is also described as Shareholders funds per share.
The NAV is often expressed in pence per share after being divided by the number of shares which have been issued.
The NAV per share is unlikely to be the same as the share price which is the price at which the Companys shares can be bought or sold by an investor.
The share price is determined by the relationship between the demand and supply of the shares.
Ongoing Charges Ongoing charges are calculated by taking the Companys annualised ongoing charges, excluding performance fees and exceptional items, and expressing them as a percentage of the average month end net asset value of the Company over the year.
Total Net Assets The value of the Companys assets, principally investments made in other companies and cash being held, minus any liabilities.
For more information please visit our website: www.
co. uk Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 113 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
