19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 34 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 36th Annual General months from the passing of this resolution, Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public whichever is the earlier, unless previously Limited Company will be held at The Principal revoked, varied or extended by the Company in Edinburgh formerly The George Hotel, 19-21 George a general meeting, save that the Company may Street, Edinburgh, on Thursday 20 July 2017 at at any time prior to the expiry of this authority 12 noon for the following purposes: make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Securities to be allotted To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following or granted after the expiry of such authority and resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant Resolutions: Securities in pursuance of such an offer or 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following 2.
That the Policy on Directors Remuneration be resolutions which will be proposed as Special approved.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the 11.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights year to 30 April 2017 be approved.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 4.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office above, and in substitution for any existing power annually, be re-elected as a Director.
but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of 5.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office the Company be and are hereby generally annually, be re-elected as a Director.
empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the 6.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity annually, be re-elected as a Director.
securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or 7.
That Jean Sharp, who retires from office at the to convert securities into, Ordinary shares in the first Annual General Meeting following her Company for cash either pursuant to the appointment to the Board, be re-appointed as a authority given by Resolution 10 above or by Director.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as defined in 8.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office Section 724 of the Act as if Section 561 1 of the annually, be re-elected as a Director.
Act did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to a expires at the conclusion of the next determine their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the 10.
Authority to allot shares expiry of 15 months from the passing of That, in substitution for any existing authority, this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save but without prejudice to the exercise of any such that the Company may, before such expiry, authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors make an offer or agreement which would of the Company be and are hereby generally and or might require equity securities to be unconditionally authorised in accordance with allotted after such expiry and the Directors Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the may allot equity securities in pursuance of Act to exercise all the powers of the Company any such offer or agreement as if the power to allot shares in the Company and to grant conferred hereby had not expired: and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security b shall be limited to the allotment of equity into shares in the Company Securities securities up to an aggregate nominal value provided that such authority shall be limited to of 2,470,150, being 10 per cent.
of the the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in nominal value of the issued share capital of respect of shares with an aggregate nominal the Company at 1 June 2017. value of up to 2,470,150, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual This power applies in relation to a sale of shares General Meeting of the Company after the which is an allotment of equity securities by passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first Page 34 KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 35 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED paragraph of this resolution the words subject the five business days immediately to the passing of Resolution 10 above were preceding the date of purchase: and omitted.
ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current 12.
Share buy-back authority independent bid on the London Stock That, in substitution for any existing authority Exchange: and but without prejudice to the exercise of any such d unless previously varied, revoked or authority prior to the date hereof, the Company renewed by the Company in a general be and is hereby generally and unconditionally meeting, the authority hereby conferred authorised, pursuant to and in accordance with shall expire at the conclusion of the Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Companys next Annual General Meeting Act, to make market purchases within the or on 31 October 2018, whichever is the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of fully earlier, save that the Company may, prior paid Ordinary shares of 12.50 each in the to such expiry, enter into a contract to capital of the Company Ordinary shares purchase Ordinary shares under such either for retention as Treasury shares for future authority which will or might be completed reissue, resale or transfer or for cancellation, or executed wholly or partly after the provided that: expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Ordinary shares pursuant to a the maximum aggregate number of any such contract.
Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 296,221 or, if less, the number 13.
That a General Meeting of the Company other representing 14.99% of the issued share than an Annual General Meeting may be called capital of the Company at the date of the on not less than 14 clear days notice provided passing of this resolution: that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the b the minimum price excluding expenses Company.
which may be paid for each Ordinary share is 12.50: By Order of the Board c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be paid for each Ordinary share Steven K Davidson shall not be greater than the higher of: Secretary 10 St Colme Street i 5 per cent.
above the average middle Edinburgh EH3 6AA market quotation on the London Stock Exchange of an Ordinary share over 1 June 2017 Notes 1.
A shareholder who is entitled to attend, speak and vote at appointment must be received by the Companys registrar the meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to not less than 48 hours excluding non-working days before attend, speak and vote on her or his behalf.
Such proxy the time of the meeting.
need not also be a shareholder of the Company.
Only those shareholders having their names entered on the appointing more than one proxy, each proxy must be Companys share register not later than 6.30 pm on 18 July appointed to exercise rights attaching to different shares 2017 or, if the meeting is adjourned, 6.30 pm on the day held by the shareholder.
which is 2 days excluding non-working days prior to the 2.
A proxy form for use by shareholders at the meeting is date of the adjourned meeting, shall be entitled to attend enclosed with this document.
Proxies must be lodged with and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the entries Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA, not less on the Companys share register after that time shall be than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the disregarded in determining the rights of any shareholder to time appointed for the meeting together with any power of attend, speak and vote at the meeting, notwithstanding any attorney or other authority if any under which it is signed.
provision in any enactment, the Articles of Association of Completion of the proxy form will not prevent a the Company or other instrument to the contrary.
shareholder from attending the meeting and voting in 5.
Any corporation which is a shareholder can appoint one person.
or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its 3.
As an alternative to completing the hard copy proxy form behalf all of its powers as a shareholder provided that such you can appoint a proxy electronically at sharevote.
corporate representatives do not do so in relation to the For an electronic proxy appointment to be valid, your same shares.
Page 35 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 36 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 6.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service notes can be exercised only by members of the Company.
may do so for the meeting and any adjournment s thereof 8.
At 31 May 2017, the latest practicable date prior to by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual, publication of this document, the Companys issued share and by logging on to the website www.
capital comprised 1,976,127 Ordinary shares of 12.50 each CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored with a total of 1,976,127 voting rights.
members, and those CREST members who have appointed 9.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
of the total voting rights in a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST the Company who appoints a person other than the sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to Chairman as her or his proxy must ensure that both he or take the appropriate action on their behalf.
she and such third party comply with their respective In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made disclosure obligations under the Disclosure Guidance and using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate Transparency Rules.
CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be 10.
Information regarding the meeting, including information properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, is Ireland Limiteds specifications, and must contain the available from the Companys website, www.
information required for such instruction, as described in 11.
Under Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it Company must answer any question relating to the constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment business being dealt with at the meeting put by a member to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, attending the meeting unless: must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys registrar, Equiniti Limited ID a answering the question would interfere unduly with RA 19, by no later than 12 noon on 18 July 2017.
No such the preparation for the meeting or involve the message received through the CREST network after this disclosure of confidential information: time will be accepted.
For this purpose, the time of receipt b the answer has already been given on a website in will be taken to be the time as determined by the the form of an answer to a question: or timestamp applied to the message by the CREST c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or application host from which the Companys Registrar is the good order of the meeting that the question be able to retrieve the message by inquiry to CREST in the answered.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST 12.
Shareholders are advised that, unless otherwise stated, any should be communicated to the appointee through other telephone number, website or e-mail address which may be means.
set out in this notice of meeting or in any related documents including the proxy form is not to be used for the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST purposes of serving information or documents on, or sponsors or voting service providers should note that otherwise communicating with, the Company for any Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available purposes other than those expressly stated.
special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply 13.
The members of the Company may require the Company in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is without payment to publish, on its website, a statement the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take which is also to be passed to the Auditors setting out any or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, matter relating to the audit of the Companys accounts, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit.
provider s, to procure that her or his CREST sponsor or The Company will be required to do so once it has received voting service provider s take s such action as shall be such requests from either members representing at least 5 necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means per cent.
of the total voting rights of the Company or at of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this least 100 members who have a relevant right to vote and connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their hold shares in the Company on which there has been paid CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, up an average sum per member of at least 100.
Such in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual requests must be made in writing and must state the concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and senders full name and address and be sent to the timings.
Companys registered address at 10 St Colme Street, Edinburgh EH3 6AA.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 14.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. and the service contract of the Executive Director will be available for inspection at the registered office of the 7.
The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons Company during normal business hours on any weekday whose shares are held on their behalf by another person Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted from and who have been nominated to receive communications the date of this notice and at the location of the meeting from the Company in accordance with Section 146 of the for at least 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the Companies Act 2006 Nominated Persons.
Persons may have a right under an agreement with the member who holds the shares on their behalf to be 15.
Members meeting the threshold requirements set out in the appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Companies Act 2006 have the right a to require the Alternatively, if Nominated Persons do not have such a Company to give notice of any resolution which can right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right properly be, and is to be, moved at the meeting pursuant under such an agreement to give instructions to the person to section 338 of the Companies Act 2006: and or b to holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The require the Company to include a matter in the business to statement of the rights of members in relation to the be dealt with at the meeting, pursuant to section 338A of appointment of proxies in notes 1 and 2 above does not the Companies Act 2006.
