19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 26 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION rector.
Hamish Buchan and Gordon Neilly have served for more than nine years.
However, the Board subscribes to Personal Assets is a self-managed investment trust run by the view expressed within the AIC Code that long-serving its Board, which takes all major decisions collectively.
Directors should not be prevented from forming part of an While Robin Angus has executive duties, all of the Direcindependent majority, and does not consider that a Directors regard themselves and one another as equal in the dutors length of tenure reduces his ability to act independties and responsibilities they owe to shareholders and ently.
accordingly work together as a unitary Board within which the Chairman who is elected by the Directors from among Directors fees are determined within the limits set out in their own number acts as primus inter pares.
the Companys Articles of Association.
The approval of shareholders in a General Meeting is required to change The Directors are elected by the shareholders and regard this limit.
corporate governance and accountability to shareholders as fundamental.
They therefore place considerable emDue date for phasis on running the Company in the way they believe to Date of Re-election or be best suited to the successful management of an investDirector Appointment Re-appointment ment trust on behalf of its shareholders.
Hamish Buchan Chairman 5 July 2001 AGM 2017 Arrangements appropriate to an investment trust in reRobin Angus spect of corporate governance have been made by the Executive Director 18 May 1984 AGM 2017 Board.
The Board has considered the principles and recGordon Neilly 30 April 1997 AGM 2017 ommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate GoverStuart Paul 16 July 2009 finance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Frank Rushbrook 16 July 2009 AGM 2017 Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies Jean Sharp 21 July 2016 AGM 2017 the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Any new Directors appointed during the year must stand Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Refor re-appointment at the first Annual General Meeting porting Council the UK Code, as well as setting out following their appointment.
All executive and non-execuadditional principles and recommendations which are of tive Directors retire annually and, where appropriate, stand specific relevance to investment trusts.
The AIC Code can for re-election.
Other than for Robin Angus there is no nobe obtained from the AICs website at www.
tice period and no provision for compensation on early termination of appointment.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference Only Robin Angus has a contract of service with the Comto the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will pany.
Details of this service contract, his remuneration, provide better information to shareholders than if it had and fees paid to other Directors during the year are shown adopted the UK Code.
in the Directors Remuneration Report.
COMPLIANCE Individual Directors may, after having obtained the consent of any other Director, seek independent professional The Company has complied throughout the year, and conadvice at the Companys expense on any matter that continues to comply, with the recommendations of the AIC cerns the furtherance of their duties.
Details of the DirecCode and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except tors authority in relation to the issue and buying back by as disclosed below.
the Company of its shares can be found in the Directors The Board does not consider it appropriate for a Senior Report.
Similarly, details of those persons with significant Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by holdings in the Company are set out in the Directors Reprovision A.
4.1 of the UK Code, as it operates as a uniport.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Board does not consider it appropriate for Directors The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director of the to be appointed for a specific term as recommended by Company must avoid a situation in which he or she has, or principle 4 of the AIC Code and provision B.
2.3 of the UK might have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with Code.
However, the Companys practice since 2007 has the interests of the Company.
Each Director submits a list been that each Director will retire annually and, if approof potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other Dipriate, stand for re-election.
rectors consider these and recommend whether or not each The Board does not consider it appropriate for an external potential conflict should be authorised.
No situation arose evaluation of the Board to be carried out as recommended during the year whereby an interest of a Director conflicted by provision B.
6.2 of the Code as it believes the current with the interests of the Company.
evaluation process to be objective and rigorous.
The Board, which is a unitary Board and meets formally or inMEETINGS formally at least once a month, is also of the view that its During the year there were five formal Board meetings, composition is suitably diverse and effective.
each of which was attended by all of the Directors except Stuart Paul, who attended four Board meetings.
There DIRECTORS were three Audit Committee meetings, two Remuneration All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be inCommittee meetings and a Nomination Committee meetdependent in character and judgement and, in the opinion ing held during the year.
All of these meetings were atof the Board, there are no relationships or conflicts of intended by all of the respective committee members.
terest which are likely to affect the judgement of any DiPage 26
