STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the integrity of the Companys website although day to day Financial Statements in accordance with applicable maintenance has been delegated to Polar Capital LLP.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements Statements for each financial year.
Under that law may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The the Directors have prepared the Companys Financial work carried out by the Auditors does not involve Statements in accordance with International Financial consideration of these matters and, accordingly the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that European Union.
may occur to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued by the The Directors consider that the Annual Report and International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Financial Statements, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law the Directors must not approve the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they Companys performance, business model and strategy.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, THE AUDITORS the Directors are required to: As far as the Directors are aware and to the best of their knowledge, having made enquiries, there is no relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply audit information of which the Auditors are unaware and them consistently: the Directors have taken steps to make themselves aware make judgements and accounting estimates that of any relevant audit information and to establish that the are reasonable and prudent: Auditors are aware of such information.
state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any GOING CONCERN material departures disclosed and explained in the The Board has through the Audit Committee considered Financial Statements: and and assessed the Companys position as at 30 April 2017. prepare the Financial Statements on the Going The work of the Audit committee is described on pages 65 Concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume to 68 and sets out the factors on which the Going Concern that the Company will continue in business.
Basis for the preparation of the Financial Statements was considered and the Board considers that it is appropriate The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate to continue the Going Concern Basis in preparing the accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain Financial Statements of the Company.
the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company LONGER-TERM VIABILITY and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the The Board through the Audit Committee considered and Companies Act 2006. addressed the ability of the Company to continue to operate over a longer period.
The work of the Audit They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Committee in looking at the longer-term viability is of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps described on page 68.
Through the work described the for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Board considers that the Company has a reasonable irregularities.
expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for the next five years.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 73 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT UNDER THE DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES The Directors of Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, who are listed on pages 50 and 51, confirm to the best of their knowledge: the Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company: and the Strategic Report Section comprising the Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Strategic Report and Directors Report together constituting the Management Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and financial position of the Company and include a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Financial Statements and the responsibility statements were approved by the Board on 18 July 2017 and signed on its behalf by Michael Moule, Chairman of the Board.
Michael Moule Chairman Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 74 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017
