l Share Capital Represents the nominal value of authorised and allocated, called-up and fully paid shares issued.
m Capital Reserves Capital reserves gains losses on disposal includes: gains losses on disposal of investments exchange differences on currency balances and on settlement of loan balances cost of own shares bought back other capital charges and credits charged to this account in accordance with the accounting policies above Capital reserve revaluation on investments held includes: increases and decreases in the valuation of investments and loans held at the year end.
All of the above are accounted for in the Statement of Comprehensive Income except the cost of own shares bought back which is accounted for in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
n Derivative Financial Instruments The Companys activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in market prices, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
Derivative transactions which the Company may enter into comprise forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage the currency risks arising from the Companys investing activities, quoted options on shares held within the portfolio, or on indices appropriate to sections of the portfolio, the purpose of which is to provide additional capital return.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Companys policies as approved by the Board, which has set written principles for the use of financial derivatives.
A derivative instrument is considered to be used for hedging purposes when it alters the market risk profile of an existing underlying exposure of the Company.
The use of financial derivatives by the Company does not qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS.
As a result changes in the fair value of derivative instruments are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as they arise.
If capital in nature, associated change in value is presented in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
o Segmental Reporting Under IFRS 8, Operating Segments, operating segments are considered to be the components of an entity about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identified as the Manager with oversight from the Board.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company is engaged in a single segment of business, namely by investing in a diversified portfolio of technology companies from around the world in accordance with the Companys Investment Objective, and consequently no segmental analysis is provided.
In line with IFRS 8, additional disclosure by geographical segment has been provided in note 27.
Further analyses of expenses, investment gains or losses, profit and other assets and liabilities by country have not been given as either it is not possible to prepare such information in a meaningful way or the results are not considered to be significant.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 89 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
