KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Under the terms of the contracts with the AIFM and the shares: e matters relating to shareholder communication: Investment Adviser, the following matters have been exf hedging: g investment in any new asset class: h and pressly reserved to the Board: a the level and form of liqsuch other matters as the Board may reasonably intimate uidity within the portfolio: b asset allocation within the from time to time.
However, the Board is required to engage portfolio: c the Companys gearing levels: d matters rein active dialogue with the Investment Adviser in relation to lating to the buying back and issuance of the Companys the matters referred to at items a, b, e, and f above.
The following diagram highlights various matters considered by the Board during the past year: May June Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr Board and Consider Annual Semi-Annual Consider Semi-Annual Internal Committee 1st Interim General Investment 3rd Interim Investment Controls Evaluation Dividend Meeting Report Dividend Report Review Approval Consider Approval Annual Review Review Strategy of the 2nd Interim of the Interim of Risk of Directors Session Annual Report Dividend Report Registers Fees Review Consider Appointment 4th Interim of Investment Dividend Adviser Corporate Approval of Governance Prospectus Review VOTING POLICY As reported in last years Annual Report Jean Sharp was appointed to the Board at the conclusion of the Companys The Investment Adviser is to exercise all votes exercisable AGM.
Neither an external search consultant nor open adby the Company in relation to the Companys investments vertising was used to assist in the appointment.
in favour of resolutions proposed by the Boards of investee companies, save where the Board instructs otherwise.
New Directors appointed to the Board are given an inBoard decisions regarding voting on corporate resolutions duction meeting with the Executive Office and are proof companies in which the Company invests are a matter vided with all relevant information regarding the Company for the whole Board.
All resolutions on which the Comand their duties as a Director.
Thereafter, regular briefings pany is entitled to vote are monitored and, although norare provided on changes in regulatory requirements that mally the Company would vote in favour of all Board could affect the Company and the Directors.
Professional resolutions, any contentious matters are referred to the Diadvisers report from time to time and Directors will, if necrectors by e-mail for comment.
Any Director disagreeing essary, attend seminars covering relevant issues and develthat the Company should cast an affirmative vote informs opments.
the Company Secretary and requests that her or his view PERFORMANCE EVALUATION be considered by a sub-committee of the Board consisting During the year the performance of the Board, the Audit of any two Directors.
The sub-committee then considers Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remunerathe matter and informs the Director of its conclusion.
tion Committee and individual Directors was evaluated Should the Director disagree with the sub-committees through a discussion based assessment process led by the conclusion, a full Board meeting is called to consider the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman was evalumatter.
ated by the other Directors.
The Board concluded that the COMMUNICATION WITH SHAREHOLDERS Chairman and each Director contributed effectively and The Board welcomes the views of shareholders and places demonstrated commitment to her or his rle.
The Board considerable importance on communications with them.
also concluded that the performance of the Board as a The Investment Adviser reports back to the Board on whole and its committees was effective.
The UK Code remeetings with shareholders and the Chairman and other quires the Company to engage an external facilitator for Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
the Board evaluation every three years.
However, the The Annual General Meeting of the Company and preBoard has elected not to comply with this requirement, as sentations held in London provide a forum, both formal disclosed on page 26. and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Board.
By Order of the Board NOMINATION COMMITTEE Steven K Davidson The Nomination Committee, chaired by Hamish Buchan Secretary and comprising Mr Buchan, Stuart Paul and Frank Rush- 10 St Colme Street brook, considers the appointment of new Directors.
DiEdinburgh EH3 6AA versity, including gender, is considered when seeking potential candidates.
The Nomination Committee meets 1 June 2017 at least annually.
