19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 22 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED ulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Board considers that this period reflects a balance between of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the looking out over a long term horizon and the inherent unprevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
certainties of looking out further than five years.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and AcWhen deciding on this period the Directors considered the counts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and undernature of the Companys portfolio of liquid investments standable and provide the information necessary for comprising listed global equities, US TIPS, UK Indexshareholders to assess the Companys position and perLinked Gilts, UK T-Bills, Gold Bullion and cash and cash formance, business model and strategy.
The Directors also considered the Companys conclusion the Directors have assumed that the reader of ability to fulfil the stated dividend policy and the operathe Annual Report and Accounts has a reasonable level of tion of its discount and premium control policy.
knowledge of the investment industry.
The Directors have also carried out an exhaustive assessUnder applicable law and regulations, the Directors are ment of the principal risks as noted in the Strategic Report also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Direcon page 6 and discussed in note 13 to the financial statetors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corments that are facing the Company over the period of the porate Governance Statement that comply with that law review, including those that would threaten its business and those regulations.
model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and inBased on the results of this analysis, the Directors have a tegrity of the corporate and financial information included reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to on the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall the preparation and dissemination of financial statements due over the five year period of their assessment.
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENTS UNDER THE DISCLOSURE At 30 April 2017 there were 1,960,127 Ordinary shares of GUIDANCE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES 12.50 each in issue.
Each of the Directors listed on page 21 confirms that to During the year the Company purchased 4,861 Ordinary the best of her or his knowledge: shares to be held in Treasury for a total consideration of the financial statements, prepared in accordance with 1,798,000, issued 212,256 Ordinary shares for proceeds of IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true 84,503,000 and reissued 7,890 Ordinary shares from and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Treasury for proceeds of 3,130,000. and profit or loss of the Group and the undertakings The revenue profits of the Company including accumuincluded in the consolidation taken as a whole: and lated revenue reserves and realised capital profits are availthe Strategic Report includes a fair review of the develable for distribution by way of dividends to the holders of opment and performance of the business and the posithe Ordinary shares excluding any Ordinary shares held in tion of the Group and the undertakings included in the Treasury, which have no entitlement to dividends.
consolidation taken as a whole together with a descripVoting rights and deadlines for exercising voting rights can tion of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
be found in the Notes for the Annual General Meeting AGM which can be found on pages 35 and 36.
GOING CONCERN The Directors believe, in the light of the controls and reRESULTS AND DIVIDEND view processes reported in the Report of the Audit ComThe results for the year are set out in the Group Income mittee on page 28 and bearing in mind the nature of the Statement on page 11.
The Company paid four quarterly Groups business and assets, which are considered to be dividends of 1.40 per share to shareholders in the year readily realisable if required, that the Group has adequate ended 30 April 2017. resources to continue operating for at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
For SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis At 30 April 2017 there were no holdings representing diin preparing the accounts.
rectly or indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company had VIABILITY STATEMENT been disclosed to the Company.
The Board considered its obligation to assess the viability of the Company over a period longer than the twelve There have been no changes notified in respect of the months from the date of approval of the financial stateabove holdings, and no new holdings notified, since the ments required by the going concern basis of accounting.
The Board considers the Company, with no fixed life, to FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS be a long term investment vehicle but, for the purposes of Information on the Companys financial instruments can this viability statement, has decided that a period of five be found in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 1520. years is an appropriate period over which to report.
