KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 15 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Where the Company has received its dividends in the form of additional shares rather than cash, the cash equivalent The financial statements of the Group have been prepared in of the additional shares is recognised as income.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
These comprise standards and interpreDividends from overseas companies are shown gross of tations approved by the International Accounting Standards withholding tax.
Board IASB, together with such interpretations by the Special dividends are classified as either revenue or capital International Accounting Standards and Standing Interdepending on their nature.
pretations Committee as have been approved by the IASB and still remain in effect, to the extent that these have been Fixed interest returns on non-equity securities are recogadopted by the European Union.
nised on a time apportionment basis so as to reflect the effective yield on the investment, being amortisation of The financial statements are presented in Sterling and all premium accretion of discount spread over the life of the values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds 000 investment.
Interest income and other income is accounted for on an The principal accounting policies adopted are set out accruals basis.
Where the presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice the SORP for EXPENSES investment trusts issued by the Association of Investment All expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
ExCompanies the AIC in November 2014 is consistent penses are charged to revenue except those incurred in the with the requirements of IFRSs, the Directors have sought maintenance and enhancement of the Companys assets to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant and taking account of the expected long term returns, as with the recommendation of the SORP.
follows: Certain new standards, including IFRS 9 Financial InInvestment advisory fees have been allocated 35 per cent.
struments and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Custo revenue and 65 per cent.
tomers, have been issued but are not effective for this accounting period.
These have not been adopted early and Transaction costs incurred on the acquisition or disposal of the Group does not consider that the future adoption of investments are expensed to capital.
any new standards, in the form currently available, will TAXATION have any material impact on the financial position and performance as presented.
In accordance with the SORP, the marginal rate of tax is applied to taxable net revenue.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverThe consolidated financial statements incorporate the fiable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets financial statements of the Company and the entities conand liabilities in the financial statements and the corretrolled by the Company its subsidiary made up to sponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 30 April each year.
Control is achieved if, and only if, the profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liabilGroup has power over the investee i. e. existing rights that ity method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are the investee : exposure, or rights, to variable returns from recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable its involvement with the investee: and the ability to use its profits will be available against which deductible tempopower over the investee to affect its returns.
The subsidiary rary differences can be utilised.
is not considered an investment entity in the context of IFRS 10.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income INVESTMENTS and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale is under a contract the terms PRESENTATION OF INCOME STATEMENT of which require delivery within a period of time estabIn order better to reflect the activities of an investment lished by the market concerned, and are measured at fair trust company, and in accordance with guidance issued by value being the consideration payable or receivable.
the AIC, supplementary information which analyses the Investments are designated in terms of IFRSs as investIncome Statement between items of a revenue and capital ments held at fair value through profit or loss, and are nature has been presented alongside the Income Statemeasured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which ment.
is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending INCOME on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued Dividends are recognised as income when the shareholders at the closing price released by the relevant investment right to receive payment has been established, normally the manager.
The subsidiary is held at net asset value adjusted ex-dividend date.
as necessary to represent the best estimate of fair value in Dividends receivable on equity shares where no ex-divipreparing the Companys financial statements.
dend date is quoted are recognised when the Companys Any gain or loss arising from a movement in investments right to receive payment is established.
is included as a gain or loss on investments in the income statement as a capital item.
