Financial Statements NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 April 2017 continued 2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED f Investments Held at Fair Value Through Profit or loss When a purchase or sale is made under contract, the terms of which require delivery within the timeframe of the relevant market, the investments concerned are recognised or derecognised on the trade date and are initially measured at fair value.
On initial recognition the Company has designated all of its investments as held at fair value through profit or loss as defined by IFRS.
All investments are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value, which is either the bid price or the last traded price, depending on the convention of the exchange on which the investment is quoted.
Investments in unit trusts or OEICs are valued at the closing price, the bid price or the single price as appropriate, as released by the relevant investment manager.
Fair values for unquoted investments, or for investments for which there is only an inactive market, are established by using various valuation techniques.
These may include recent arms length market transactions, the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
Where there is a valuation technique commonly used by market participants to price the instrument and that technique has been demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual market transactions, that technique is utilised.
Where no reliable fair value can be estimated for such instruments, they are carried at cost, subject to any provision for impairment.
Changes in fair value of all investments held at fair value and realised gains and losses on disposal are recognised in the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
g Receivables Receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Receivables do not carry any interest and are short-term in nature and are accordingly stated at their nominal value amortised cost as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
h Cash and Cash Equivalents Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
In the Statement of Cash Flows cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts.
In the Balance Sheet bank overdrafts are shown within current liabilities.
i Payables Payables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value amortised cost.
j Bank Loans All bank loans are initially recognised at fair value, being the fair value of the consideration received, less issue costs where applicable.
After initial recognition these loans are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on settlement.
The amounts falling due for repayment within one year are included under current liabilities in the Balance Sheet.
k Rates of Exchange Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of each transaction.
Monetary assets, monetary liabilities and equity investments in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on that date.
Realised profits or losses on exchange, together with differences arising on the translation of foreign currency assets or liabilities, are taken to the capital return column of the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on investments held at fair value are included within changes in fair value.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 88 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017
