19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 34 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the 36th Annual General months from the passing of this resolution, Meeting AGM of Personal Assets Trust Public whichever is the earlier, unless previously Limited Company will be held at The Principal revoked, varied or extended by the Company in Edinburgh formerly The George Hotel, 19-21 George a general meeting, save that the Company may Street, Edinburgh, on Thursday 20 July 2017 at at any time prior to the expiry of this authority 12 noon for the following purposes: make an offer or enter into an agreement which would or might require Securities to be allotted To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following or granted after the expiry of such authority and resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary the Directors shall be entitled to allot or grant Resolutions: Securities in pursuance of such an offer or 1.
That the Report and Accounts for the year to agreement as if such authority had not expired.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following 2.
That the Policy on Directors Remuneration be resolutions which will be proposed as Special approved.
That the Directors Remuneration Report for the 11.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights year to 30 April 2017 be approved.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 10 4.
That Hamish Buchan, who retires from office above, and in substitution for any existing power annually, be re-elected as a Director.
but without prejudice to the exercise of any such power prior to the date hereof, the Directors of 5.
That Gordon Neilly, who retires from office the Company be and are hereby generally annually, be re-elected as a Director.
empowered, pursuant to Section 570 of the 6.
That Frank Rushbrook, who retires from office Companies Act 2006 the Act, to allot equity annually, be re-elected as a Director.
securities as defined in Section 560 of the Act, including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or 7.
That Jean Sharp, who retires from office at the to convert securities into, Ordinary shares in the first Annual General Meeting following her Company for cash either pursuant to the appointment to the Board, be re-appointed as a authority given by Resolution 10 above or by Director.
way of a sale of Treasury shares as defined in 8.
That Robin Angus, who retires from office Section 724 of the Act as if Section 561 1 of the annually, be re-elected as a Director.
Act did not apply to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 9.
That Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as Auditors and that the Directors be authorised to a expires at the conclusion of the next determine their remuneration.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or on the 10.
Authority to allot shares expiry of 15 months from the passing of That, in substitution for any existing authority, this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save but without prejudice to the exercise of any such that the Company may, before such expiry, authority prior to the date hereof, the Directors make an offer or agreement which would of the Company be and are hereby generally and or might require equity securities to be unconditionally authorised in accordance with allotted after such expiry and the Directors Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the may allot equity securities in pursuance of Act to exercise all the powers of the Company any such offer or agreement as if the power to allot shares in the Company and to grant conferred hereby had not expired: and rights to subscribe for or to convert any security b shall be limited to the allotment of equity into shares in the Company Securities securities up to an aggregate nominal value provided that such authority shall be limited to of 2,470,150, being 10 per cent.
of the the allotment of shares and the grant of rights in nominal value of the issued share capital of respect of shares with an aggregate nominal the Company at 1 June 2017. value of up to 2,470,150, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual This power applies in relation to a sale of shares General Meeting of the Company after the which is an allotment of equity securities by passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 virtue of Section 560 2 of the Act as if in the first Page 34
