as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily 3.
A proxy form which may be used to make this 7.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies Official List for the five business days immediately appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment preceding the day on which such share is contracted this notice.
Details of how to appoint a proxy are set service may do so by utilising the procedures described to be purchased: out in the notes to the proxy form.
As an alternative in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
to completing a hard copy proxy form, proxies may be euroclear.
CREST Personal Members or d. the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the end appointed by using the electronic proxy appointment other CREST sponsored members and those members of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company service in accordance with the procedures set out in Note who have appointed a voting service provider s, should after the passing of this resolution unless previously 6 below.
CREST members may appoint proxies using the refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, renewed, varied or revoked by the Company in CREST electronic proxy appointment service see Note 7 who will be able to take the appropriate action on their general meeting: and below.
In each case the appointment must be received behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment made by means e. the Company may make a contract to purchase its by the Company not less than 48 hours, excluding non of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message.
a Ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred business days, before the time of the Meeting.
CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated prior to the expiry of such authority, which contract in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds 4.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only will or may be executed wholly or partly after the EUI specifications and must contain the information to persons who have been nominated by a member to expiry of such authority, and may purchase its required for such instructions, as described in the enjoy information rights under section 146 of the Act Ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
The message, regardless of whether it a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy By Order of the Board constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment cannot be exercised by a Nominated Person: they can to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, Katie Wood only be exercised by the member.
However, a Nominated must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be Company Secretary Person may have a right under an agreement between received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the latest 26 June 2017 him and the member by whom he was nominated to be time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in Registered office: appointed as a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of Northgate Centre, Lingfield Way, Darlington, DL1 4PZ.
If a Nominated Person does not have receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by such a right or does not wish to exercise it, he may have a Notes the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST right under such an agreement to give instructions to the 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to member as to the exercise of voting rights.
General Meeting the Meeting may appoint another retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner 5.
To be entitled to attend and vote, whether in person or person s who need not be a member of the Company prescribed by CREST.
The Company may treat as invalid by proxy, at the Meeting, members must be registered to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in in the register of members of the Company at close of vote at the Meeting.
A member can appoint more than regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated business on Friday 15 September 2017 or, in the case of one proxy in relation to the Meeting, provided that each Securities Regulations 2001. an adjourned meeting, at close of business on the day proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to which is two days before the meeting excluding days different shares held by him.
which are not working days.
Changes to entries on the 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company register after this time shall be disregarded in determining but must attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your the rights of persons to attend or vote and the number proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the of votes they may cast at the Meeting or adjourned Company or another person who has agreed to attend to meeting.
Your proxy must vote as you instruct and 6.
Shareholders wishing to appoint a proxy online should must attend the Meeting for your vote to be counted.
com and follow the instructions Appointing a proxy does not preclude you from attending on screen.
If you have not already registered with The the Meeting and voting in person.
Share Portal you will need to identify yourself with your personal Investor Code see Attendance Card.
To be valid your proxy appointment s and instructions should reach Capita Registrars no later than 48 hours, excluding non business days, before the time set for the Meeting.
124 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 125 FINANCIALS 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING CONTINUED 8.
A member of the Company which is a corporation may 10.
The Company must cause to be answered at the Meeting 14.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the Act, members authorise a person or persons to act as its representative s any question relating to the business being dealt with meeting the threshold requirements in those sections at the Meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of the at the Meeting which is put by a member attending the i have the right to require the Company to give, to Act, each such representative may exercise on behalf Meeting, except in certain circumstances, including if members of the Company entitled to receive notice of of the corporation the same powers as the corporation it would interfere unduly with the preparation for the the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members could exercise if it were an individual member of the Meeting or if it is undesirable in the interests of the intend to move and which may properly be moved Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to Company or the good order of the Meeting that the at the Meeting: and or ii to include in the business to the same shares.
It is no longer necessary to nominate a question be answered or if to do so would involve the be dealt with at the Meeting any matter other than a designated corporate representative.
proposed resolution which may properly be included in the business at the Meeting.
Members satisfying the thresholds in section 527 of the 11.
As at 27 June 2017 being the latest practicable date prior be moved, or a matter properly included in the business, Act can require the Company to publish a statement on to the publication of this notice, the Companys issued unless a in the case of a resolution only it would, its website setting out any matter relating to a the audit share capital consists of 133,232,518 Ordinary shares of if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any of the Companys accounts including the auditors report 50 pence each, carrying one vote each and 1,000,000 inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before preference shares of 50 pence each, which do not carry constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any the Meeting: or b any circumstances connected with an any rights to vote on the above resolutions.
Therefore, person: or c it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the the total voting rights in the Company are 133,232,518. pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic last Annual General Meeting, that the members propose 12.
The contents of this notice of meeting, details of the form, must identify the resolution of which notice is to be to raise at the Meeting.
The Company cannot require the total number of shares in respect of which members are given or the matter to be included in the business, must members requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
entitled to exercise voting rights at the Meeting, the total be authenticated by the person s making it and must be Any statement placed on the website must also be sent voting rights that members are entitled to exercise at the received by the Company not later than 8 August 2017, to the Companys auditor no later than the time it makes Meeting and, if applicable, any members statements, being the date six clear weeks before the Meeting, and its statement available on the website.
The business members resolutions or members matters of business in the case of a matter to be included in the business which may be dealt with at the Meeting includes any received by the Company after the date of this notice only must be accompanied by a statement setting out statement that the Company has been required to publish will be available on the Companys website: www.
the grounds for the request.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this notice of meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Term Definition Term Definition ABI Association of British Insurers HMRC Her Majestys Revenue & Customs GLOSSARY AGM Annual General Meeting IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards Annual That section of the Remuneration report which is subject ISO International Organisation for Standardisation Report on to an advisory shareholder vote ISS Institutional Shareholder Services Remuneration KPIs Key Performance Indicators CEO Chief Executive Officer LCV Light commercial vehicle: the official term used within CFO Chief Financial Officer the European Union for a commercial carrier vehicle with CPI Consumer Price Index a gross vehicle weight of not more than 3.5 tonnes CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Listing Rules The Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority DABP Deferred Annual Bonus Plan MPSP Management Performance Share Plan closed to new awards from 2013 DEFRA The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs NBS New Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon plc EBIT Earnings before interest and taxation Net tangible Net assets less goodwill and other intangible assets equivalent to operating profit assets EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation NPS Net promoter score: a standardised measure of customer and amortisation satisfaction EPS Basic earnings per share PBT Underlying profit before tax EPSP Executive Performance Share Plan PPU Profit per unit loss per unit this is a non-GAAP measure used to describe the adjustment in the depreciation ESG Environment, social and governance charge made in the year for vehicles sold at an amount ESOS Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme different to their net book value at the date of sale net of attributable selling costs, divided by the number of EU European Union vehicles sold Facility Calculated as facilities of 571.9m less net borrowings PwC  LLP headroom of 311.9m.
Net borrowings represent net debt of 309.9m excluding unamortised arrangement fees of ROCE Underlying return on capital employed: calculated 2.0m and are stated after the deduction of 41.2m as underlying operating profit see non-GAAP of cash balances which are available to offset against reconciliation divided by average capital employed borrowings.
SIP The Companys HMRC approved share incentive plan, FCA Financial Conduct Authority also known as the All Employee Share Scheme Free cash flow Net cash generated before the payment of dividends SMEs Small and medium sized enterprises FY2016 The year ended 30 April 2016 The Code The UK Corporate Governance Code FY2017 The year ended 30 April 2017 The Company Northgate plc FY2018 The year ending 30 April 2018 The Group The Company and its subsidiaries GAAP Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: TSR Total Shareholder Return meaning compliance with International Utilisation Calculated as the average number of vehicles on hire Financial Reporting Standards divided by average rentable fleet in any period Gearing Calculated as net debt divided by net tangible assets as defined below GHG Greenhouse Gas 126 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 127 FINANCIALS 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgateplc.
com stock code: NTG Classification SHAREHOLDER Information concerning day-to-day movements in the price of the Companys Ordinary shares can be found on the Companys website at: INFORMATION www.
com The Companys listing symbol on the London Stock Exchange is NTG.
The Companys joint corporate brokers are Barclays Bank plc and Numis Securities Limited and the Companys Ordinary shares are traded on SETSmm.
Financial calendar December Publication of interim statement January Payment of interim dividend June Announcement of year end results July Report and accounts posted to shareholders September Annual General Meeting Payment of final dividend Secretary and registered office Katie Wood Northgate Centre Lingfield Way Darlington DL1 4PZ Tel: 01325 467558 Registrars Capita Registrars The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 10p per minute plus network extras Overseas: 44 208 639 3399 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four Northgate plc Northgate Centre, Lingfield Way Darlington, DL1 4PZ Tel 01325 467558 Web www.
