com stock code: NTG REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their report and the There are no specific restrictions on the size Interests in shares audited consolidated accounts for the year of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, The following interests in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company have been ended 30 April 2017. which are both governed by the general notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of the Disclosure provisions of the Articles of Association and Transparency Rules: Results the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Details on financial performance and 30 April Directors are not aware of any agreements dividends can be found in the Strategic 2017 % between holders of the Companys shares Report from pages 8 to 39.
BlackRock Inc. 5,126,407 3.85 that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Crystal Amber Fund Ltd 5,706,442 4.28 Close company status So far as the Directors are aware the close JO Hambro Capital Management Ltd 6,722,974 5.05 Details of employee share schemes are set company provisions of the Income and Norges Bank 6,722,974 5.05 out in the Remuneration Report.
Shares Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to held by the Capita Trust are voted on the the Company.
Since 30 April 2017 no changes in interests have been notified to the Company.
instructions of the employees on whose behalf they are held.
Shares in the Guernsey Capital structure Directors Directors indemnities Trust are voted at the discretion of the Details of the issued share capital, together Details of the present Directors are listed As permitted by the Companys Articles Trustees.
with details of any movements during the on pages 42 and 43.
All have served of Association, qualifying third party year, are shown in Note 23.
The Company throughout the year except Kevin Bradshaw, indemnities for each Director of the No person has any special rights of control has one class of Ordinary share which carries who was appointed on 11 January 2017, Bob Company were in place throughout their over the Companys share capital and all no right to fixed income.
Each share carries Contreras, who retired from the Board on periods of office during the year and, for issued shares are fully paid.
the right to one vote at general meetings of 11 January 2017 and Bill Spencer, who those currently in office, remained in force the Company.
With regards to the appointment and joined the Board in June 2016. as at the date of signing of this report.
replacement of Directors, the Company is The cumulative Preference shares of Resolutions to reappoint each of the The Companys Articles of Association are governed by the Articles, the UK Corporate 50p each entitle the holder to receive a Directors in office at the date of this report available on the Companys website: Governance Code, the Companies Act and cumulative preferential dividend at the rate will be proposed at the AGM.
com of 5% on the paid up capital and the right may be amended by special resolution of the Termination provisions in respect of to a return of capital at either winding up shareholders.
The powers of Directors are executive Directors contracts can be found or a repayment of capital.
The cumulative set out in the Articles.
in the Remuneration policy, starting on Preference shares do not entitle the holders page 56. to any further or other participation in the The Directors are not aware of any profits or assets of the Company.
agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide The percentage of the issued nominal value for compensation for loss of office or of the Ordinary shares is 99.255% of the employment that occurs because of a total issued nominal value of all share capital.
