We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the Our responsibilities and those of the Directors financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities set out on page 77, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the give a true and fair view.
extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance a combination of both.
with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Parent Companys information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Report of the Directors and Corporate it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Governance Statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required What an audit of financial statements involves by applicable legal requirements.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: | whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: | the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and | the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Ian Morrison Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Leeds 26 June 2017 82 Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 83 GOVERNANCE 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
