com stock code: NTG NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and nineteenth or agreement which would or might require shares to a. limited to the allotment of equity securities or Annual General Meeting of Northgate plc the Company be allotted or rights to subscribe for or convert securities sale of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of will be held at 10 Paternoster Square, London EC4 at 11.30 into shares to be granted after such expiry and the Board 3,330,000: and am on 19 September 2017 for the purpose of considering may allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert b. used only for the purposes of financing or and, if thought fit, passing the following resolutions, of securities into shares in pursuance of such an offer or refinancing, if the authority is to be used within six which resolutions 1 to 13 will be proposed as ordinary agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not months after the original transaction a transaction resolutions and resolutions 14 to 17 will be proposed as expired.
which the Board of the Company determines to special resolutions: 15.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 14 the Board be an acquisition or other capital investment of a be authorised to allot equity securities as defined in the kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles 1.
To receive the Directors Report and audited accounts of Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently the Company for the year ended 30 April 2017. by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date 2.
To declare a final dividend of 11.6p per Ordinary share.
the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 of this notice, 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report in the of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such such authority to expire at the end of the next Annual form set out on pages 54 to 73 of the 2017 Annual allotment or sale, such authority to be limited: General Meeting of the Company or, if earlier, at the Report and Accounts.
a. to the allotment of equity securities in favour of close of business on 19 December 2018 but, in each 4.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy in the form Ordinary shareholders where the equity securities case, prior to its expiry the Company may make offers, set out on pages 56 to 64 of the Directors Remuneration respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary and enter into agreements, which would, or might, Report in the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be require equity securities to be allotted and treasury to the respective numbers of Ordinary shares held by shares to be sold after the authority expires and the 5.
To appoint  LLP as auditor of the them: and Board may allot equity securities and sell treasury shares Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had Annual General Meeting.
b. to the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury not expired.
shares otherwise than under paragraph a above up 6.
To authorise the Audit and Risk Committee to determine to a nominal amount of 3,330,000, such authority to 17.
That a general meeting, other than an Annual General the remuneration of the auditor.
expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting Meeting, may be called on not less than 14 clear days 7.
To re-elect Mr A Page as a director.
of the Company or, if earlier, at the close of business notice.
To re-elect Mr AJ Allner as a director.
on 19 December 2018 but, in each case, prior to its 18.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally 9.
To re-elect Miss J Caseberry as a director.
expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into authorised to make market purchases within the agreements, which would, or might, require equity 10.
To re-elect Mrs C Miles as a director.
meaning of s693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 of securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be Ordinary shares of 50p each of the Company on such 11.
To re-elect Mr B Spencer as a director.
sold after the authority expires and the Board may terms and in such manner as the Directors may from time 12.
To re-elect Mr P Gallagher as a director.
allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under to time determine, provided that: any such offer or agreement as if the authority had 13.
To elect Mr K Bradshaw as a director.
a. the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby not expired.
That the Board be and it is hereby generally and authorised to be acquired is 13,300,000, representing 16.
That subject to the passing of Resolution 14, the Board unconditionally authorised pursuant to s551 of the approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary share be authorised in addition to any authority granted under Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all powers capital of the Company as at 26 June 2017: Resolution 15 to allot equity securities as defined in the of the Company to allot shares in the Company and to b. the minimum price which may be paid for any such Companies Act 2006 for cash under the authority given grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security Ordinary share is 50p: by that resolution and or to sell ordinary shares held by into shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal c. the maximum price excluding expenses which may the Company as treasury shares for cash as if section 561 amount of 22,000,000 provided that this authority shall be paid for any such Ordinary share is an amount of the Companies Act 2006 did not apply to any such expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting equal to 105% of the average of the middle market allotment or sale, such authority to be: of the Company after the passing of this resolution save quotations for an Ordinary share in the Company that the Company may before such expiry make an offer 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
