01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their report together shares.
The aggregate consideration paid deemed to have a non-beneficial interest Between 30 April 2017 and 20 June 2017 believes these policies to be effective in Scope 1 direct emissions relating to office, with the audited consolidated and for these shares was 64.5 million.
As at in 424,872 2015: 338,061 ordinary shares the Company has also been notied of the promoting and protecting human rights sales and development site activities: and company financial statements for the year 30 April 2017 the Company held 2,418,472 held by the Trustees of The Berkeley following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of by establishing clear ethical standards for work-related travel in company owned ended 30 April 2017. shares in Treasury.
These shares have no Group Employee benefit Trust EBT.
The the DGTR: ourselves and our expectations for those vehicles: voting rights.
Authority will be sought from Trustee of the EBT has waived entitlement external parties who work with the Group Principal activities and review of the Scope 2 indirect emissions from Number shareholders at the forthcoming Annual to dividends until further notice and has or on our behalf.
business electricity and heat consumed for office, of General Meeting to renew the authority agreed not to vote on any shares held in The Company is the UK holding company ordinary % of Sustainability sales and development site activities: given at the 2016 Annual General Meeting the EBT at any general meeting.
shares voting Nature of of a Group engaged in residential-led The Group is committed to being a i for a further year, permitting the Company Scope 3 other indirect emissions relating held rights holdings property development focusing on urban There were no contracts of signicance responsible and sustainable business to purchase its own shares in the market up to office, sales and development site regeneration and mixed-use developments.
during, or at the end of, the financial year in which thinks about the long-term and BlackRock Inc. 13,784,370 10.00 Indirect to a limit of 10% of its issued share capital.
activities: work-related travel in leased and The Company is incorporated and which a Director of the Company is, or was, creates positive environmental, social and i The number of ordinary shares held and percentage employee owned vehicles: business air domiciled in England and Wales and is Movements in the Companys share capital materially interested, other than those set economic impacts.
These aspects are of voting rights held is as stated by the shareholder at travel: transmission and distribution losses quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
are shown in note 18 to the consolidated out in note 25 to the consolidated financial considered in the Groups approach to the time of notication.
of purchased electricity and heat: and financial statements.
statements, the contracts of employment managing its operational activities and in The information that fulls the upstream emissions.
Donations of the Executive Directors, which are the homes and places it develops.
requirements of the Strategic Report Information on the Groups share option The Group made no political donations terminable within one year, and the Emissions include 50% of those resulting can be found on pages 2 to 75 of the schemes is set out in note 5 to the The Group has an integrated strategy for 2016: nil during the year.
appointment terms of the Non-executive from the Groups joint ventures on the basis Annual Report which provide more consolidated financial statements.
Details the business: Our Vision.
Sustainability is a Directors, which are renewable annually of its equity share.
Employment policy detailed commentaries on the business of the Long-Term Incentive Schemes key element of the Groups strategy with a and terminable on one months notice.
The Groups policy of operating through performance during the year together with and Long-Term Incentive Plans for key number of commitments directly relating The intensity ratio has been calculated autonomous subsidiaries has ensured close the outlook for the future.
In particular, executives are set out within the Directors Directors indemnities to sustainability.
Information on Our Vision using the total number of direct employees consultation with employees on matters information in respect of the principal Remuneration Report on pages 89 to 107.
The Companys practice has always been can be found within the Strategic Report across the Group and the number of likely to affect their interests.
The Group is financial and operating risks of the to indemnify its Directors in accordance and on the Groups website.
contractors working on our sites.
Articles of association rmly committed to the continuation and business is set out on pages 59 to 69 of the with the Companys Articles of Association The Articles of Association set out the The Directors have ultimate responsibility The UK Government Environmental strengthening of communication lines with Strategic Report.
and to the maximum extent permitted basic management and administrative for sustainability within the Group.
The Reporting Guidelines 2013 and UK all its employees.
Qualifying third party indemnities, Trading results and dividends structure of the Company.
They regulate Sustainability Leadership Team, which Government GHG Conversion Factors under which the Company has agreed An Equal Opportunities Policy was The Groups consolidated profit after the internal affairs of the Company and meets monthly to set strategic direction for Company Reporting have been used to indemnify the Directors, were in force introduced in 2001.
Following periodic taxation for the financial year was 645.1 cover such matters as the issue and and review performance, consists of to calculate and report the Groups during the financial year and at the date reviews the most recent in September million 2016: 404.1 million.
The Groups transfer of shares, Board and shareholder the Chief Executive, the Board Director greenhouse gas emissions.
of approval of the financial statements, in 2010 the policy is now an Equality joint ventures contributed a profit after meetings, powers and duties of Directors Responsible for Sustainability and the accordance with the Companys Articles 2016 data has been revised based on and Diversity Policy with the aim of taxation of 63.8 million 2016: 36.5 and borrowing powers.
In accordance with Group Sustainability Team.
Dedicated of Association and to the maximum extent more accurate data now being available ensuring that all employees, potential million.
the Articles of Association, Directors can operational practitioners work throughout permitted by law, in respect of all costs, for energy consumption within the period.
employees and other individuals receive be appointed or removed by shareholders the business to ensure sustainability is An interim dividend of 100 pence per charges, expenses, losses and liabilities, Further details on these changes, our equal treatment including access to in a general meeting.
share was paid to shareholders on 15 which they may incur in or about the established reporting criteria and the employment, training and opportunity September 2016 and a further interim The Articles may only be amended by execution of their duties to the Company, Greenhouse gas emissions methodology adopted for the overall for promotion regardless of their age, dividend of 85.24 pence per share was paid special resolution at a general meeting or any entity which is an associated calculations can be found at berkeleygroup.
disability, gender reassignment, marriage 2017 2016 to shareholders on 24 March 2017.
Copies are available by company as dened in Section 256 of co. uk sustainability reports-and-caseand civil partnership, pregnancy and A A Scope 1 tCO e 2,265 2,378 interim dividend is proposed to be paid as writing to the Company Secretary and the Companies Act 2006, or as a result studies.
maternity, race, religion or belief including 2 part of the 138.8 million shareholder return are also open to inspection at Companies of duties performed by the Directors lack of belief, sex and sexual orientation.
A A Scope 2 tCO e 10,056 11,822 The Directors confirm that reported 2 to be provided by 30 September 2017 House.
on behalf of the Company or any such It is the policy of the Group to support the greenhouse gas emissions have been A A Scope 3 tCO e 11,383 13,667 through a combination of dividends and associated company.
employment of people with disabilities 2 Directors prepared in accordance with the Groups share buy-backs.
The amount to be paid as wherever practicable and to ensure, A A 23,704 27,867 Total tCO e The Directors of the Company and their Substantial shareholders 2 established reporting criteria, are free a dividend will be announced on 17 August, as far as possible, the training, career proles are detailed on pages 78 to 81.
The Company has been notied of the from material misstatement and have Emissions intensity 1.76 2.29 taking account of any share buy-backs development and promotion opportunities All of these Directors served throughout following interests, pursuant to Rule 5 of been presented in a manner that provides tCO e person made during the period 2 December 2016 2 are available to all employees.
This policy the year under review.
In addition, G J Fry the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency relevant, reliable, comparable and to 30 September 2017.
The dividend will be includes employees who become disabled 2017 A and 2016 A information has been separately served as a Director of the Company from Rules DGTR, as at 30 April 2017: understandable information.
paid on 15 September 2017 to shareholders subject to limited assurance by  whilst employed by the Group.
For further details of the assurance provided in 2017 on the register on 25 August 2017.
Takeover directive agreements Number of All disclosures concerning diversity of the and 2016, see the independent assurance reports found ordinary % of The Articles of Association of the Company Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the at berkeleygroup.
co. uk sustainability reports-and-casePost balance sheet event shares voting Nature of Groups Directors, senior management require Directors to submit themselves for Company is required to disclose whether i i studies.
held rights holdings There are no post balance sheet events.
and employees as required under the re-election every three years.
In addition, there are any significant agreements that First Eagle 15,197,119 11.02 Indirect Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report The Group has reported on greenhouse Share capital all Directors are subject to election at the take effect, alter or terminate upon a Investment and Directors Report Regulations 2013 gas emissions for which it is responsible, as Management The Company had 140,157,183 ordinary first opportunity after their appointment to change of control.
ii LLC are contained within the Strategic Report required under the Companies Act 2006 shares in issue at 30 April 2017 2016 the Board.
However, in accordance with the BlackRock Inc. 13,752,976 9.97 Indirect Change of control provisions are included on page 41.
Strategic Report and Directors Reports 138,257,183.
During the year to 30 April UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 all of as standard in many types of commercial Standard Life 6,443,253 4.76 Direct Regulations 2013.
The emissions disclosed 2017 and in accordance with the authority the Directors will offer themselves for reThe Group has implemented Human Investments Indirect agreement, notably bank facility are aligned to the Groups financial provided by shareholders at the 2015 election at the forthcoming Annual General Rights, Modern Slavery and Child Labour A W Pidgley, CBE 5,498,916 3.9868 Direct agreements and joint venture shareholder reporting year, are considered material and 2016 Annual General Meetings, the Meeting.
policies in support of human rights which i The number of ordinary shares held and percentage agreements, for the protection of both to its business and have the following Company has purchased 2,418,472 ordinary is implicit in all of its pre-existing corporate of voting rights is as stated by the shareholder at the The Directors interests in the share capital parties.
Such standard terms are included parameters: shares with a nominal value of 120,924 time of notication.
The Group of the Company and its subsidiaries are in Berkeleys bank facility agreement ii First Eagle Overseas Fund have notied the Company which equated to 1.7% of the called up shown in the Directors Remuneration that they hold 4,212,259 ordinary shares which is share capital of the Company at the Report on pages 97 and 98.
At 30 April 3.02% of voting rights.
This holding is included in beginning of the period, excluding Treasury the indirect interests of 11.02% held by First Eagle 2017 each of the Executive Directors were Investment Management LLC.
108 109 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED which contains provisions that give the Statement of Directors responsibilities and hence for taking reasonable steps for The Directors have a reasonable banks certain rights upon a change of in respect of the Annual Report and the the prevention and detection of fraud and expectation that the Company has control of the Company.
Similarly, in certain Financial Statements other irregularities.
adequate resources to continue its circumstances, a change of control of The Directors are responsible for preparing operational existence for the foreseeable The Directors are responsible for the either National Grid or Berkeley may give the Annual Report, the Directors future and for this reason they continue maintenance and integrity of the the other joint venture partner the ability to Remuneration Report and the financial to adopt the going concern basis of Companys website.
Legislation in the sell its interest in the joint venture.
statements in accordance with applicable accounting in preparing the annual United Kingdom governing the preparation law and regulations.
In addition, the Companys share schemes and dissemination of financial statements contain provisions which take effect Company law requires the Directors may differ from legislation in other By order of the Board upon change of control.
These do not to prepare financial statements for jurisdictions.
entitle the participants to a greater each financial year.
Under that law the Directors responsibility statement interest in the shares of the Company Directors have prepared the Group G E M Parsons Each of the Directors, whose names and than that created by the initial grant of Financial Statements in accordance with Company Secretary functions are listed on pages 78 to 81 the award.
The Company does not have International Financial Reporting Standards The Berkeley Group Holdings plc confirm that, to the best of each persons any arrangements with any Director that IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Registered number: 5172586 knowledge: provide compensation for loss of office or and have prepared the Parent Company 21 June 2017 employment resulting from a takeover.
Financial Statements in accordance with a. the Group financial statements, which United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been prepared in accordance with Independent Auditors and disclosure of United Kingdom Generally Accepted IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, information to Auditors Accounting Practice and applicable law.
give a true and fair view of the assets, Each of the persons who is a Director at liabilities, financial position and profit of the the date of approval of this Annual Report Under company law the Directors must not Group: confirms that: approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and b. the Strategic Report, together with the So far as the Director is aware, there is fair view of the state of affairs of the Group Directors report, includes a fair review no relevant audit information of which and the Company and of the profit or loss of the development and performance the Companys auditors are unaware: of the Group for that period.
of the business and the position of the and Group, together with a description of the In preparing these financial statements, the The Director has taken all the steps that principal risks and uncertainties that it Directors are required to: he she ought to have taken as a Director faces, including those that would threaten in order to make himself herself aware select suitable accounting policies and its business model, future performance, of any relevant audit information and to then apply them consistently: solvency or liquidity: and establish that the Companys auditors make judgements and estimates that are c. the Annual Report, taken as a whole, are aware of that information.
reasonable and prudent: is fair, balanced and understandable and This conrmation is given and should provides the information necessary for state whether IFRS as adopted by be interpreted in accordance with the shareholders to assess the Companys the European Union and applicable provisions of Section 418 of the Companies financial performance and position, UK accounting standards have been Act 2006. business model and strategy.
followed, subject to any material A resolution to re-appoint KPMG LLP as departures disclosed and explained Going concern auditors to the Company will be proposed in the Group and Parent Company The Groups business activities together at the Annual General Meeting.
Financial Statements respectively: and with the factors likely to affect its future development performance and position Annual general meeting prepare financial statements on are set out in the Strategic Report.
The The Annual General Meeting of the the going concern basis unless it is financial position of the Group, its cash Company is to be held at the Woodlands inappropriate to presume that the Group ows, liquidity position and borrowing Park Hotel, Woodlands Lane, Stoke will continue in business.
facilities are all described in the Trading and DAbernon, Cobham, Surrey KT11 3QB at The Directors are responsible for keeping Financial Review on pages 72 to 75.
The Notice adequate accounting records that of Meeting, which is contained in a separate The Group has significant financial are sufficient to show and explain the letter from the Chairman accompanying resources and the Directors have assessed Companys transactions and disclose this report, includes a commentary on the the future funding requirements of the with reasonable accuracy at any time the business to be transacted at the Annual Group, including the return of 2.2 billion financial position of the Company and the General Meeting.
to shareholders by 2021, and compared Group and to enable them to ensure that this to the level of committed loan facilities Share capital structure the financial statements and the Directors and cash resources over the medium term.
The Company is compliant with DGTR Remuneration Report comply with the In making this assessment consideration 7.2.
6. and the information relating to the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards has been given to the uncertainty inherent Companys share capital structure is the Group financial statements, Article in future financial forecasts and where included in the Directors Report on page 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also applicable reasonable sensitivities have 108. responsible for safeguarding the assets of been applied to the key factors affecting the Company and the Group the financial performance of the Group.
110 111 02 GOV VERNANCE 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 FINANCIALS 03 FINANCIALS Royal Arsenal Riverside, Woolwich 112 113
