Strategic report 1.1 Introduction Stagecoach Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of a group of companies the Group principally involved in the sale and operation of passenger transport.
The directors of Stagecoach Group plc the Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 29 April 2017.
This section contains the Strategic report, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a strategic report in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 2 of this Annual Report and the Directors report is set out in section 3.
1.2 Cautionary statement The Strategic report has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and for no other persons.
Its purpose is to inform shareholders of the Company and to help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote the success of the Company.
This Strategic report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Strategic report will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1.3 Overview of the year ended 29 April 2017 We have achieved our recent expectation of adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 29 April 2017.
Although the continuing trading challenges faced by our businesses are reflected in the financial results, we continue to manage the Group with its long-term success in mind.
That approach is reflected in the substantial investment in the business during the year.
Our priority remains delivering safe, high quality and value-for-money travel for our customers.
We are working closely with public sector partners to deliver on our joint responsibility for improving services, while also responding to the competitive environment from other modes of travel.
We have made further significant investment in measures to make travel easier and more attractive to customers, as well as ensuring we have strong and sustainable transport businesses for the long-term.
Overall we have achieved further revenue growth during the year, although the rate of growth was more subdued than in previous years.
Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items was 192.8m 2016: 228.8m.
Unadjusted operating profit for the year was 47.3m 2016: 171.1m.
Earnings per share before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items adjusted earnings per share were 24.4p 2016: 27.7p, with the year-on-year decrease mostly due to the previously anticipated fall in operating profit from our UK Rail Division.
Basic, unadjusted earnings per share decreased to 5.5p 2016: 17.1p, principally due to exceptional charges relating to Virgin Trains East Coast that are explained below.
We are engaged in discussions with the Department for Transport regarding the terms of our continued operation of the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, taking account of our respective rights and obligations under the current franchise agreement.
While any new agreement remains subject to approvals and contract, based on our interactions with the Department for Transport, we expect to finalise new commercial terms during the next year.
These will provide clarity for customers, staff, investors and other stakeholders on the future operation of the franchise, and offer value for money for taxpayers.
We look forward to continuing to deliver our vision and plans for the franchise through to at least 2023.
Reflecting our contractual rights and obligations, and based on our ongoing discussions with the Department for Transport and the reprioritisation of Network Rails infrastructure programme, we expect Virgin Trains East Coast to be profitable from 2019 with the potential to earn a profit margin commensurate with that of a direct award franchise.
However, we also expect Virgin Trains East Coast to incur losses under the current contract.
Accordingly, in the financial statements for the year ended 29 April 2017, we have recorded an exceptional pre-tax charge of 84.1m to reflect that the current contractual arrangements give rise to an onerous contract.
The calculation of that onerous contract provision takes account of the Stagecoach parent companys 165m loan commitment to Virgin Trains East Coast, from which 57.5m was already loaned at 29 April 2017.
10% of any loan is funded by Virgin.
We have also recorded a 44.8m impairment of intangible assets associated with the right to operate the franchise.
The impairment charge is essentially an acceleration of amortisation and is a non-cash charge.
We have proposed a final dividend of 8.1p per share 2016: 7.9p, which, if approved, would give a total dividend per share for the year up 4.4%.
We have slowed the rate of dividend growth relative to recent years to ensure that the dividend remains at a level we consider to be sustainable.
The dividend per ordinary share grew significantly from 2001 2 to 2015 16 at a compound annual growth rate of over 11% and we continue to seek to grow the dividend.
The final dividend would be payable on 4 October 2017 to shareholders on the register at 1 September 2017.
Shareholders who wish to participate in the dividend re-investment plan for this dividend should elect to do so by 13 September 2017.
Election requests should be made to the Companys registrars in good time before that date.
In our UK Bus operations, regional growth trends are mixed, reflecting the variable economic picture and retail environment in town and cities in different parts of the country.
We have taken actions in response to the period of subdued revenue trends.
As well as strengthening our UK Bus management team, ours low fares strategy has given us scope to have a targeted approach to pricing and network changes.
We are pleased at the increasing take up of our digital offerings, which benefit our customers and allow us better insight into their needs.
We have maintained our sustainable approach to bidding for bus contracts in London, with a focus on cost efficiencies and capital discipline.
While this can result in changes to the scale of our contract portfolio at certain points in the bidding cycle, we believe our approach brings long-term benefits to the business.
In North America, we see some evidence of improving revenue trends in markets previously affected by sustained low fuel prices, and heightened competition from cars and airlines.
Measures we have taken to match service provision with consumer demand are starting to flow through to improved yields.
We are also pleased that our strategy of seeking to grow our contract work has resulted in some recent success.
We are a significant and experienced participant in the UK rail market.
As well as managing our existing portfolio and investing in improvements for our customers, we are actively pursuing other opportunities which we believe can deliver long-term value.
While we were disappointed not to have been awarded the new South Western franchise, there are other new franchise opportunities.
We have been shortlisted for the new East Midlands and South Eastern franchises and have formed a new joint venture with Virgin and SNCF to bid for the West Coast Partnership franchise.
Across the UK, revenue growth in the franchised rail market remains low by historical standards.
Growth rates in 2016 17 at our inter-city businesses out-performed those at our London commuter business.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 1 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 2 Strategic report 1.3 Overview of the year ended 29 April 2017 continued We continue to invest in our people to equip them to meet the growing expectations of customers.
Our employees are fundamental to our success and the Board extends its thanks to them for their hard work and professionalism.
During the year, we have strengthened the Board with the appointments of Ray OToole and Julie Southern, both of whom bring considerable senior management experience and an in-depth understanding of transport.
Looking ahead, we remain cautious on the short-term outlook for revenue trends and operating profit in our bus and rail markets in the UK.
Nevertheless, we have not significantly changed our expectation of our 2017 18 adjusted earnings per share and there are several medium to long-term positive drivers for our businesses.
These include urbanisation, population growth, and the growing demand for action on road congestion and air quality.
We remain confident that we can continue to deliver long-term value to our customers and investors.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE 2017 2016 Functional 2017 2016 Growth m m currency Functional currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 1,015.7 1,032.8 1,015.7 1,032.8 1.7 % megabus Europe 20.2 18.4 20.2 18.4 9.8% UK Bus London 263.4 267.1 263.4 267.1 1.4 % North America 488.8 430.9 US$ 632.3 647.7 2.4 % UK Rail 2,160.7 2,129.1 2,160.7 2,129.1 1.5% Intra-Group revenue 7.6 7.2 7.6 7.2 Group revenue 3,941.2 3,871.1 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT 2017 2016 Functional 2017 2016 m % margin m % margin currency Functional currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 121.1 11.9% 137.3 13.3% 121.1 137.3 megabus Europe 4.3 21.3 % 24.1 131.0 % 4.3 24.1 UK Bus London 18.4 7.0% 20.2 7.6% 18.4 20.2 North America 19.3 4.0% 18.9 4.4% US$ 25.0 28.4 UK Rail 31.0 1.4% 66.7 3.1% 31.0 66.7 Group overheads 14.1 11.9 Restructuring costs 4.8 3.1 Operating profit before joint ventures, intangible 166.6 204.0 asset expenses and exceptional items Joint ventures share of profit loss after tax Virgin Rail Group 24.8 24.2 Citylink 1.4 1.4 Twin America 0.8 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 192.8 228.8 Intangible asset expenses 16.8 15.8 Exceptional items 128.7 41.9 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit loss after taxation 47.3 171.1 More details on the financial results for the year are provided in sections 1.5 and 1.6 of this Annual Report.
page 2 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 3 1.4 The Stagecoach Group 1.4.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group and its business model Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, the United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 40,000 people and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
During the year ended 29 April 2017, the Group exited the operations of its megabus Europe Division.
We offer greener, smarter travel in the UK and North America.
Our principal business is providing passenger transport services, primarily by transporting people by bus, coach, train or tram.
Our This is Stagecoach Group infographic provides more information and can be found on our website at: http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoach-Group Attachments pdf .
pdf This section summarises the Groups business model.
We have revised the description of the business model included in prior years annual reports in an effort to more clearly describe the business model and reflect good practice in our reporting.
The remaining parts of this section 1.4 are also important to an understanding of our business model and we cross-reference them where appropriate.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
2 summarises our strategy and section 1.4.
3 explains what we do and provides a description of each of our key business segments, markets and where appropriate, market share.
Business culture We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
The Group began life as a family business in 1980 and the entrepreneurism and expertise of the founding family has played a significant part in its growth.
The founding family continues to play a part in the management of the Group.
Although we have been publically listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1993, we aim to maintain an entrepreneurial culture, reflecting our family heritage.
That involves encouraging sensible risk taking while managing risks appropriately and responding to risks that do crystallise.
It is inevitable and appropriate for a group of its size that the Group has a number of policies and procedures to ensure appropriate behaviours but these are designed to avoid stifling entrepreneurism.
More information on the Groups core values and policies is provided in section 1.8.
We operate a relatively devolved management structure.
That reflects our view that in operating local transport services, day-to-day decision making should be made by local managers who understand the dynamics of their particular markets.
We aim to have relatively short chains of command that facilitate the effective exchange of information and enable timely decision making.
Delegated authorities and other policies and procedures are in place to achieve an appropriate balance between the benefits we perceive of devolved management and the need for proportionate management of overall risk.
Sources of revenue We have a number of revenue streams, principally arising from: Amounts we receive from individuals or groups of individuals to travel on our transport services: Amounts we receive from government bodies in respect of travel by individuals on our transport services for example, in the UK, older people and people with disabilities are legally entitled to travel on our bus services at certain times free of charge but we receive revenue from government bodies in respect of that travel: Amounts we receive from government bodies as payment to us for operating transport services under contract for example, a US Transit Authority may pay us to run specified bus services.
Any amount payable by individual passengers would flow to the US Transit Authority and our revenue would be from that authority: Amounts we receive from corporations or others for operating transport services under contract for example, a university might pay us to operate a bus service to shuttle students around its campus: Subsidy we receive from government bodies to financially support the operation of transport services they consider to be socially desirable.
We also earn other income, which may include income from: commissions for selling travel on other operators transport services: undertaking maintenance work on other operators vehicles: selling advertising space on vehicles and premises we operate: access income for others to use railway stations and depots that we operate: selling fuel to other transport operators: property rental: Network Rail in respect of UK railway operating performance regimes: The UK Department for Transport under UK rail revenue risk sharing arrangements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 3 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 4 Strategic report 1.4.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group and its business model continued Key costs and inputs Our main tangible fixed assets are property, coaches, buses and technology.
Our trains, as well as some of our property, buses and coaches, are operated under operating leases.
Our people are key to providing our services.
Notwithstanding developments in technology, our business remains relatively labour intensive.
Around a third of our consolidated operating costs are staff costs and in our bus divisions, the proportion is higher.
Relationships with our people and their trade unions are important to the success of the business.
Our other major operating costs are: amounts payable to the UK Department for Transport under rail franchise agreements for the right to operate the relevant franchises: amounts payable to Network Rail by our UK train operating companies for use of the railway infrastructure tracks, stations etc.
: diesel and electricity to fuel or power our buses, coaches, trains and trams: insurance costs and claims costs: material and consumables, including replacement parts for vehicles: depreciation and lease charges for the vehicles, properties and technology that we operate.
4 of this Annual Report sets out more information on the key relationships and resources that underpin what we do.
Cash conversion For the most part, our revenues and operating costs excluding depreciation are converted to cash within a short timescale.
Indeed, payment for travel by individuals tends to occur prior to or at the time of travel whereas costs tend to be settled in arrears.
The exceptions to this are most significant in the UK Rail segment where the complex, contractual arrangements can result in greater timing differences between the recognition of items in income and the effect of those items on cash.
Competitive advantages We see our key sources of competitive advantage as being: Our operational excellence providing safe, reliable, good quality, value for money, customer-focused transport services: Innovation we have a long record of innovation, including being the first private company to secure a rail franchise in the UK in the 1990s and also, in disrupting the market for inter-city coach travel by introducing megabus.
com in the 2000s as a low-cost, internet-only coach travel retailer: Our commercial expertise in designing transport networks, pricing our services and marketing our services: Our brands our operational excellence and commercial expertise is reflected in our generally high customer satisfaction scores meaning that our key brands are well regarded in their respective markets: Our relationships we view our relationships with employees, trade unions and government bodies, in particular, as key advantages to our business: Our expertise in bidding and managing complex contracts, particularly in the UK Rail market where we see success as being predicated on a combination of bidding and winning new contracts on acceptable commercial terms, actively managing those contracts during their term and effective management of the day-to-day train operations: The economies of scale of being a relatively large transport provider.
Value for other stakeholders As well as the financial value we generate for our investors, lenders and people, we provide value to a wider group of stakeholders, including: Public transport offers environmental benefits versus wide-scale car usage and can contribute to efforts to reduce pollution and improve air quality, benefiting the public in general: Our business generates significant tax contributions to public finances across employee, sales, corporation, property and other taxes: We contribute around 1m per annum to charities as well as providing non-financial support to charities and the communities in which we operate.
Risks We do face a number of risks.
5 sets out the principal risks to the achievement of our strategy and objectives which include political, regulatory, technological and macroeconomic risks.
Changes in regulation and technology in particular are likely to drive an evolution of our business model.
6 describes how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of the Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations by providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused transport services that deliver a positive customer experience at a reasonable price: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected rail franchises and bus contracts to seek to secure new franchises and contracts where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 6,900 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates inter-urban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
com, and the UK Bus regional operations Division includes megabus.
com coach services within the UK.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro.
The joint venture is responsible for the Scottish Citylink express coach network and megabus.
com branded services to, from and within Scotland.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading retailer of scheduled, inter-city coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators licence may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
Most of the Divisions revenue is from customers paying for their own travel by bus.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 10% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
For some services, the Group receives revenue from passengers as well as tendered revenue from a local authority.
Around 24% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from statutory concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying older people and people with disabilities, at no charge to the passenger, on the same bus services that are also available to the wider public.
So, the Group would typically receive both revenue from passengers and also, concessionary revenue from a local authority in respect of a single bus service and in some cases, may also receive tendered revenue for the same service.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver value over time driven by organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused bus services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new tendered or contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 23% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel within Great Britain by residents of England.
The NTS found that bus is mainly used for trips of between one and 25 miles, and that in 2015, there was an average of 914 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 78% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 10% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 7%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus.
According to the NTS, around 30% of bus journeys are for shopping, 20% for leisure, 17% for education, 21% for commuting and business, 12% are for personal business e. g. visits to services such as banks, medical consultations etc.
Macroeconomic factors Although UK Bus regional operations revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
We estimate that around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
New, potential, sources of competition are emerging, often enabled by digital developments.
Potential new competitors include ride-sharing websites, digitally-driven taxi services and aggregators of travel services.
Future market The level of Government investment in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in developments Bus Service Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying older people and people with disabilities at no charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Division does continue to face risks related to regulatory changes and availability of public funding as noted in section 1.4.
Technological developments present both opportunities and threats to growing passenger volumes.
There are positive long-term conditions for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by population growth, increasing urbanisation, rising road congestion, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 6 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued megabus Europe Description The megabus Europe Division operated megabus.
com inter-city coach services within mainland Europe and between the UK and mainland Europe.
The Divisions revenue was principally derived from the sale of inter-city coach journeys via its own websites until the sale of the retailing part of the Division to FlixBus in July 2016.
Since that date, the Divisions revenue was principally derived from operating services under contract to FlixBus.
Regulatory environment The regulatory environment for inter-city coach services in Europe varies by country.
The principal countries served by the Division were the UK, France, Germany and Italy.
Each of those countries permits commercially operated inter-city coach services but some require specific route authorisations to be held.
Strategy and Having sold the retailing part of the megabus Europe Division to FlixBus, and ceased operating services under contract to market opportunity FlixBus, the Group now has no further operations within the Division.
UK Bus London Description The Group is the fourth largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 13% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,300 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
The UK Bus London Division currently has over 80 separate contracts to provide bus services on behalf of Transport for London this spreads the Divisions risk of financial performance being adversely affected when a contract expires and the business is unsuccessful in winning the replacement contract.
Strategy Our strategic focus in the London bus market is now on maintaining good operational performance and tight control of costs while seeking to bid competitively for new contracts.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 13% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because the business receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win Transport for London contracts from other bus operators, the largest of which are Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP, Transit Systems and Abellio.
Future market In the short-term, revenue growth could come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher developments rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
Continuing population growth in London and positive government policy on public transport can contribute to a positive long-term outlook for the business.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued North America Description The North America Division provides bus and coach transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include the operation of bus services under contract to transit authorities and others: commuter bus services: inter city coach services: bus tours: charter operations: and sightseeing bus services.
com North America, a low cost inter-city coach business, which sells inter-city coach journeys within North America and operates or sub-contracts the coach services.
The North America business is headed by a chief operating officer.
Stagecoach currently operates approximately 2,200 vehicles in the United States and Canada.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach had an interest in a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY, which the Group sold to its joint venture partner in February 2017.
The joint venture principally operated sightseeing bus services in New York.
Prior to disposing its stake in Twin America, the Group held 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities and services contracted by corporations.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes as a result of providing safe, reliable, good quality, customer-focused services at a reasonable price to customers.
This may be supplemented by winning new contract work and or acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group estimates that it has less than 4% of the bus and coach market in North America.
The latest US Department of Transportations Bureau of Transportation Statistics, published in 2017, show that in 2015 some 86% of transportation to work was by car, compared with only 5% by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are arguably more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
Demand for its services, particularly megabus.
com, is also affected by movements in oil prices.
It nevertheless has some flexibility over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from other coach operators, airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are also major operators of coach and bus services in North America.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, has grown rapidly and while megabus.
com revenue has declined more recently reflecting lower oil prices, we expect the inter-city coach market to continue to present significant long-term opportunities to the Group.
We are also exploring new contract opportunities in North America.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 07 07 2017 10:55 Page 8 Strategic report 1.4.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UKRail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal rail subsidiaries are South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast.
South West Trains runs train services in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is due to run until August 2017 and the Group will not operate that business thereafter.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains business.
The business comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until at least March 2018.
The UK Department for Transport has the option to extend the franchise by up to one-year and has already indicated its intention to extend the franchise until at least November 2018.
Stagecoach has a 90% share in the Virgin Trains East Coast business with the Virgin Group of Companies holding the other 10%.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise began in March 2015 and is planned to run until 31 March 2023, with the option for a one-year extension at the discretion of the UK Department for Transport.
It provides inter-city train services between London and a number of locations including Edinburgh, Newcastle, Leeds and York.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until March 2018.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains, Virgin Trains East Coast and the tram operations each have a managing director, who reports to the Managing Director of the UK Rail Division, who in turn reports to the Chief Executive.
Virgin Rail Group has a managing director, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK rail operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With a number of franchises expected to be tendered within the next few years, there is scope to win new franchises.
Macroeconomic factors The rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product GDP and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups South West Trains franchise has significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group agreed franchise terms.
The Groups East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, as well as the West Coast Trains franchise operated by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture, are not entitled to revenue support in the form received by South West Trains.
They do, however, have GDP sharing agreements that are intended to ensure that the Department for Transport bears most of the risk of variances in revenue resulting from UK GDP differing from that expected at the time of the applicable franchise agreement.
On bids for new franchises, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, Go Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, Trenitalia, SNCF, Eurostar, Serco and Abellio.
Future market The UK Department for Transport has a clear schedule in place for re-tendering rail franchises.
The Group will assess each developments opportunity to bid for a new rail franchise on a case-by-case basis.
The UK continues to see growth in demand for rail services presenting opportunities for the Groups existing rail interests and also in its bids for new franchises.
page 8 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 9 Strategic report 1.4.
4 What we need, to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the quality, delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and our businesses have regular and ongoing discussions with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in its record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in our main countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for Transport, the Scottish Government, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Government and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the Department for Transport governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers, including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Information technology is increasingly important to effectively operate our services and to meet our customers expectations.
Significant investment, internal management resource and external supplier input support the development and operation of IT systems.
Corporate reputation, brand strength and market position Stagecoach is one of the best known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced efficiently and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and industry representation groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Rail Delivery Group and the American Bus Association.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 10 Strategic report 1.4.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there is a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The Board of Directors determines the nature and extent of the principal risks that it is willing for the Group to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
Information on the risk management process is provided in section 4.12.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 29 April 2017 and since Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is While it is not possible to fully No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a eliminate these risks, the Group has a major operational incident resulting proactive culture that puts health and in significant human injuries or safety at the top of its agenda in order damage to property.
This could have to mitigate the potential for major a significant impact on claims against incidents.
In the unlikely event that a the Group, the reputation of the major incident did occur, the Group has Group and its chances of winning procedures in place to respond.
The and retaining contracts or franchises.
Group periodically rehearses its In extreme cases, services could be response to a hypothetical major suspended or structural changes incident.
The Group has insurance imposed on the Group as a result of arrangements in place to reduce the regulatory or other action.
financial effect on the Group of certain claims against it.
A series of less severe incidents could have similar consequences.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of The Group has plans in place 1.5.
5 We believe that recent high profile terrorism on public transport systems designed to reduce the operational terrorist attacks in major European and other terrorist attacks that, whilst and financial impact of a terrorist cities, including London and not directly targeting public transport, incident.
It also has checks in place Manchester, continue to suppress have discouraged travel.
There is a risk such as vehicle inspections to demand for public transport, that the demand for the Groups reduce the risk.
particularly for longer distance UK Rail services could be adversely affected by services.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
5 The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and During the year ended 29 April 2017, geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order the Groups wholly owned South West operates affects the demand for the to match capacity to demand and Trains rail franchise received revenue Groups bus and rail services.
In where possible, minimise the impact support from the Department for particular, the revenue of the of adverse economic trends on the Transport, such that the Department Groups UK rail operations is Group.
External forecasts of was and is at risk for the majority of any historically correlated with factors economic trends form part of the difference between actual and such as UK Gross Domestic Product Groups assessment and expected revenue.
In management of economic risk.
The Virgin Trains East Coast franchise, North America, a greater proportion In bidding for new rail franchises, East Midlands Trains franchise and of the revenue from bus operations the evaluation of macroeconomic West Coast Trains franchise, operated is derived from tour, charter and risks is a key element of the bid by the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint sightseeing services than in the UK process.
venture, all have GDP sharing and these services tend to be more agreements that are intended to ensure Further information on the susceptible to economic changes.
that the Department for Transport and relevance of macroeconomic factors Other factors, such as movements in the train operator share the risk of to each business segment is fuel prices, can also affect revenue, variances in franchise revenue resulting provided in section 1.4.
The revenue and from UK GDP differing from that profit of the Group could therefore expected at the time of the respective be positively or negatively affected franchise agreements.
by changes in the economy.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 29 April 2017 and since Annual Report Economy continued We believe that macroeconomic factors 1.5.
5 have contributed to slower revenue and passenger volume growth in the UK businesses during the year and since.
The ongoing negotiation of the terms of the UK leaving the European Union may lead to continuing economic, consumer and political uncertainty.
That may in turn affect asset values and foreign exchange rates, which have a bearing on the amounts of our pension, financial instruments and other balances.
UK policy following the UK leaving the European Union may affect the UK economy, including the availability and cost of staff.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible 1.5.
5 Revenue growth at Virgin Trains 2.5.
4 in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail East Coast has been lower than essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements.
The Groups that assumed in the bid, which rail franchise agreements, the Group is franchise bids are designed to has reduced the expected obliged to provide a minimum level of deliver an acceptable risk-reward profitability of that business.
We train services and is therefore unable to trade-off.
As described above, have recorded a 84.1m pre-tax flex supply in response to short-term economic and terrorism risks are exceptional expense to provide 2.5.
In addition, the for the current onerous status of significant part of the cost base is Group remains focused on the contract at Virgin Trains East comprised of payments to the controlling costs in the UK Rail Coast.
infrastructure provider, Network Rail, Division.
4 and payments under train operating leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profit A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the The Group was unsuccessful in its bid 1.5.
6 revenue and profit is generated by Group has devoted significant for the new South West Trains franchise, and the existing franchise is UK rail franchises, which have a management resource and financial due to end in August 2017.
There is a risk that investment to bidding for new rail the financial impact of losing the the Groups revenue and profit franchises.
franchise to include an increase in the could be significantly affected Appropriately experienced Groups reported net debt of around either positively or negatively as a personnel are retained to work on 100m.
result of the Group winning new rail bids and third party consultants During the year, the Government franchises or failing to retain its are engaged to provide additional confirmed that it requires a short-term existing franchises.
The Board approves the franchise of approximately twelve that overall risk, is the risk that the overall rail bidding strategy and the months to cover the period from the Group wins a franchise on terms key parameters for each bid.
end of the current West Coast franchise that are unrealistic whether due to in March 2018 until the planned start error or overly optimistic of the West Coast Partnership franchise assumptions and which as a result, in April 2019.
Virgin Rail Group is in adversely affects the Groups discussions with the Department for financial performance and or Transport with a view to agreeing financial position.
commercial terms for Virgin Rail Group to continue operating the West Coast Trains business through to at least March 2019.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is contracted to run until at least March 2018, although the DfT has an existing contractual option to extend it up until March 2019.
The Group is one of three shortlisted bidders for the next East Midlands Trains franchise.
The Group is also shortlisted for the new South Eastern rail franchise.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 12 Strategic report 1.4.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 29 April 2017 and since Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to We are engaged in constructive 1.5.
5 certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
discussions with the Department for franchise agreements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an Transport regarding the terms of our comply with these conditions, it may important part of our rail activities continued operation of the Virgin be liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are Trains East Coast franchise, taking potential termination of one or more managed can be a significant account of our respective rights and of the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
obligations under the existing would result in the Group losing the franchise agreement.
4 Compliance with franchise conditions is right to continue operating the new agreement remains subject to closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, approvals and contract, we expect procedures are in place to minimise the the related revenues and cash flows.
to finalise new commercial terms risk of non-compliance.
The Group may also lose some or all The Group maintains an overview of of the amounts committed for the Virgin Rail Groups business risk shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more committee.
to prevent breaches of franchise where it has control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Changing customer habits There are opportunities for the Group The Group monitors trends in revenue Lower rates of growth seen recently in 1.5.
5 and passenger numbers across its to shape its services and its interaction the UK rail sector are partly a result of with its customers in response to businesses.
In forecasting future changes in working patterns.
On our revenue and passenger numbers, London commuter rail services, we changes in customer habits such as including in respect of bids for new rail their working patterns and shopping.
have seen evidence of changing franchises, the Group considers working patterns resulting in variations People travel on the Groups bus, train research and evidence on changing in demand by weekday.
and tram services for a variety of customer behaviour.
In recent years, we have adjusted the reasons, including in some cases, to get The Group will, from time to time, vary timetables for certain of our North to and from work and or to get to and its timetables, pricing, range of ticket America commuter bus services to from shopping locations.
types and transport networks in adapt to changes in working patterns.
Changes in peoples working patterns, response to actual or anticipated shopping habits and or other changes in demand.
preferences could affect demand for the Groups transport services, which could in turn affect the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
For example, increases in the proportion of working time that people spend at home, or in the level of shopping undertaken online, could affect demand for travel.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme liabilities have 1.6.
There asset allocation and benefit promises increased during the year, principally due to a fall in corporate bond yields.
is a risk that the reported net pension are taken by management and or asset liability and or the cash pension scheme trustees in contributions required to these consultation with trade unions and schemes increases or decreases due to suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions changes in factors such as investment Oversight Committee comprising the performance, the rates used to discount Finance Director, a Non-Executive liabilities and life expectancies.
Director and other senior executives, Intervention by regulators could also oversees the Groups overall pensions affect the contributions required.
The Board participates in increase in contributions will reduce the major decisions on the funding and Groups cash flows.
Any significant design of pension schemes.
increase in pension liabilities could affect the Groups credit ratings.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 29 April 2017 and since Annual Report Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect The Group has a proactive culture No significant matters to report.
of traffic incidents and employee that puts health and safety at the claims.
The Group protects itself top of its agenda and this helps against the cost of such claims mitigate the potential for claims through third party insurance policies.
Where claims do arise, they An element of the claims is not are managed by dedicated insurance insured as a result of the excess on and claims specialists in order to insurance policies.
minimise the cost to the Group.
There is a risk that the number or Where appropriate, legal advice is magnitude of claims are not as obtained from appropriately qualified advisors.
The balance expected and that the cost to the between insured and retained risks Group of settling these claims is significantly higher or lower than is re-evaluated at least once a year expected.
In the US, in particular, and insurance and claims activity is monitored closely.
there is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could adversely impact the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors The greater devolution of powers 1.5.
1 relevant proposals for changes in the degrees of regulation across the within the UK, reflected in the Bus locations in which the Group operates.
regulatory environment and Services Act 2017, could see the communicates the Groups views to There is a risk that changes to the introduction of franchised bus regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
The networks in some areas of England, the Groups prospects.
We see the Group actively participates in various which could affect our commercialised greatest risk in this respect as being trade bodies and government forums.
the risk that some bus services in the The Group seeks to maintain good, There are growing signs that the UK outside London become subject to cooperative relationships with all Scottish Government is considering franchising whereby a government levels of government, by developing giving local authorities the option to body specifies the bus services and and promoting ideas that offer cost franchise bus services and councils to puts them out to tender compared to effective ways of improving public set up municipal bus companies as the current model where commercial transport.
part of measures to be included in a bus operators are free to design and planned Transport Bill.
Some of the Where regulatory changes are known operate their own services.
measures in the Bus Services Act or reasonably likely, the Group Similarly, many of the Groups referred to above such as open data develops plans to seek to mitigate any businesses benefit from government and smart ticketing could provide a adverse effects on it.
investment in bus and train services, basis for developing bus policy in The Group uses internal and or including tax rebates, the provision of Scotland.
The timing of the Transport external experts to advise it on equipment, contracted services and Bill is yet to be confirmed.
The Bill is compliance and management in concessionary travel schemes for also expected to cover legislation on specialist areas such as tax and passengers.
There is a risk that the enhancing and improving the transport law.
availability of government finances regulation of road works, matters changes due to political, regulatory or around parking and also, air quality.
The Ontario Ministry of There is also a risk that the Group Transportation is consulting on suffers financial or reputational proposals to deregulate the current damage as a result of non-compliance market, which may ultimately lead to with laws or regulations or as a result a more open, private-sector driven of the Group having a different inter-city coach market in this part of interpretation of laws or regulations Canada.
In addition, in the case of tax, there is a risk the Group suffers reputational damage because of how others perceive the Groups approach to a tax matter even where the Group has complied with the applicable laws and regulations.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors Changes in the Companys Board of services of its senior employees, and senior management is an Directors during the year are explained including its directors and important issue and as such is in section 1.3 of this Annual Report.
management who have skills that considered by the Nomination are important to the operation of Committee as described in section 6.5 the Groups business.
The success of and the Board.
The appropriate level of the Group could be adversely management deals with recruitment affected if effective succession and retention of other staff.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 14 Strategic report 1.4.
5 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 29 April 2017 and since Annual Report Disease There is a risk that demand for the The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
Groups services could be adversely respond to any significant outbreak affected by a significant outbreak of of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Information security There is a risk that confidential and or An Information Security Board No significant matters to report.
commercially sensitive information oversees the management of relating to and or held by the Group information security risks, and takes is subject to unauthorised access, use, appropriate advice from suitably disclosure, modification, perusal, experienced third party consultants recording or destruction.
Investment is made in appropriate There is also a risk that the Groups information and or systems are policies, people and technology to reduce the severity and likelihood of subject to disruption, corruption or failure due to security breaches.
Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in A Digital and Technology technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, Committee was established during back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the the year to monitor the technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information development and effectiveness of could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new digital strategies across the Group.
digital platforms and continues to look An increasing proportion of the Groups to ensure that it secures reliable sales are made digitally.
There is a risk service provision.
that the Groups capability to make and sales digitally either fails or cannot meet levels of demand and the time 5.1 2.5.
3 taken to implement restorative actions is unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue.
Litigation The Group is exposed to the risk of The Group has compliance The US Department of Justices 1.5.
6.2 commercial and consumer litigation programmes in order to reduce the investigation of the conduct of arising from the legal environment in risk of material litigation against the company personnel in responding to some markets, particularly the United Group.
discovery obligations relating to Twin States.
America is no longer ongoing.
Competition Loss of business to existing We monitor competitive developments Sustained low fuel prices have led to 1.5.
4 competitors or new entrants to the in each of our markets and respond as increased competition from cars and and 1.5.
5 markets in which we operate could appropriate.
have a significant impact on our developments in technology and business.
We face competition for business models that could affect the customers not only from other competitive landscape.
Multi-modal operators of trains, trams, coaches and travel portals, taxi hailing technology buses but also from other modes of and businesses, ride-sharing transport.
The Group regards its technology and businesses, and primary competitor as the private car autonomous vehicles are amongst the and aims to encourage modal shift developments we are monitoring and from car to public transport.
Developments in new technology We work with local authorities, and or new business models could including passenger transport affect the competitive environment in executives, regional transport which the Group operates.
committees and transit authorities, in Technological developments could the delivery and planning of bus and enable new competitors and or rail services.
business models to be developed that disrupt or compete with the Groups 1.5.
3 of this Annual Report includes comments on competition in the context of each of the Groups key divisions.
Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risk to operating costs arising from movements in fuel prices.
6 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that people want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 Target pence pence pence Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of the UK Consumer Prices Index 24.4p 27.7p 26.7p Organic growth The following measures of organic growth are monitored: UK Bus regional operations and megabus Europe growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
UK Bus London and North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America and all of the revenue in UK Bus London is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
Certain of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes.
All of the organic growth KPIs are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of the relevant year and the preceding year.
The growth figures for the year ended 29 April 2017 are also normalised for differences in the number of days in each year.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 1.5 % 0.8 % 0.1% megabus Europe passenger journeys n a 235.0% 65.1% UK Bus London revenue 0.8 % 2.5% 6.4% UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains 0.8 % 2.7% 3.9% each year East Midlands Trains 2.1% 1.2% 6.3% Virgin Trains East Coast 2.1% 1.7% n a Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 5.9% 2.6% 10.2% North America revenue 2.1 % 3.5 % 0.9% The reduction in passenger journeys at UK Bus regional operations in the year ended 29 April 2017 is partly attributable to weak underlying local economic conditions in some parts of the UK, sustained lower fuel prices, worsening road congestion and increased competition from other transport providers.
The lower revenue in North America during the year ended 29 April 2017 reflects the actions we have taken at our megabus.
com inter-city coach business to match our services with changes in demand from customers.
The increase in passenger miles at West Coast Trains during the year ended 29 April 2017 partly reflects the prior year impact of the temporary closure of Lamington viaduct in southern Scotland, which carries the West Coast mainline railway.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 16 Strategic report 1.4.
6 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Eight of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended Target 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 18.6 20.4 19.8 accidents per 1 million miles travelled megabus Europe number of blameworthy n a 11.9 6.7 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 45.8 35.6 28.5 accidents per 1 million miles travelled US number of blameworthy accidents per 6.9 6.2 4.4 1 million miles travelled To decrease each year ultimate target South West Trains workforce lost time injuries is zero 1.4 1.4 1.5 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 0.9 1.3 1.1 per 1,000 staff Virgin Trains East Coast workforce lost time injuries 1.1 1.5 n a per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.0 1.3 1.8 injuries per 1,000 staff An increased proportion of newer, less experienced bus drivers, combined with the impact of greater road congestion, have contributed to the increased rate of blameworthy accidents at UK Bus London during the year ended 29 April 2017.
While the increase tends to be mostly low speed manoeuvring incidents, each incident is investigated and health and safety remains our top priority.
We believe the increase in the number of blameworthy accidents in North America during the year ended 29 April 2017 reflects an increased focus on reporting all such incidents, irrespective of how minor, rather than being indicative of deteriorating safety performance.
Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations, megabus Europe and UK Bus London reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the Department for Transports Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American Division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 30 April 2015 Target % %% UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.5% 99.4% 99.5% megabus Europe reliability 99.0% n a 99.7% 99.3% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 97.9% 97.4% 97.2% UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 87.0% 90.0% 90.1% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 92.1% 92.8% 92.3% Virgin Trains East Coast 85.0% 83.1% 85.0% n a Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 89.4% 86.2% 84.4% The adverse trends in punctuality during the year ended 29 April 2017 at South West Trains and Virgin Trains East Coast in particular, reflect the poor Network Rail operational performance on these parts of the network.
In contrast, punctuality has improved at West Coast during the year, reflecting positive work by Network Rail and Virgin Rail Group.
page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 17 Like-for-like combined commercial and concessionary revenue was 0.5% 1.5 Divisional Performance lower than in the previous year, although there was some improvement in 1.5.
1 UK Bus regional operations revenue trends in the second half of the year.
Summary Total like-for-like passenger journeys fell by 1.5%, largely as a result of weak underlying local economic conditions in some parts of the UK, High margin public transport business c. 12% operating margin sustained lower fuel prices and worsening road congestion.
We continually High passenger satisfaction 86% in England, 90% in Scotland review and adjust our local bus networks to take account of changing Further investment in digital and technology patterns of demand.
We have therefore taken action in response to the Action taken in response to a period of subdued revenue trends current period of subdued revenue trends.
targeted network, pricing and management changes In partnership with transport authorities, we seek to maximise the value No change in our expectation of 2017 18 operating profit from their funding for socially necessary services to provide as wide a set of bus networks as possible for local communities.
Revenue from tendered Financial performance and school services provided under contract has continued to decline, as a The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations Division result of local authorities reducing spending due to budget constraints.
excluding exceptional items for the year ended 29 April 2017 is While contract revenue also declined year-on-year, that revenue stream summarised below: does vary from year to year based on the particular contract opportunities available.
2017 2016 m m Change Road works and worsening road congestion in many towns and cities are increasingly having a negative impact on customer use of bus services, Revenue 1,015.7 1,032.8 1.7 % damaging reliability and adding to operating costs.
Along with other bus Like-for-like revenue 1,008.3 1,023.7 1.5 % operators, we are increasing pressure on local authorities to take practical Operating profit 121.1 137.3 11.8 % steps to address road congestion and invest in bus priority measures which Operating margin 11.9% 13.3% 140 bp can help improve mobility and air quality for everyone.
The movement in operating margin was built up as follows: While the operating profit for the year ended 29 April 2017 of 121.1m Operating margin 2015 16 13.3% 2016: 137.3m fell short of the target we set at the start of the financial Change in: year, the UK Bus regional operations Division remains a strong business with an operating margin of almost 12%, passenger satisfaction of 86% in Staff costs 1.8 % England and passenger satisfaction of 90% in Scotland.
We have made Fuel costs 1.5% further investment in the future of the business, in new vehicles and new Gain on disposal of property 0.6% Depreciation 0.6 % technology.
Other 1.1 % The Division is organised and managed based on a number of core regional bus businesses.
Across those businesses, the operating margins in the year Operating margin 2016 17 11.9% ranged upwards from around 8%.
Although the margin varies from The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: business to business, each of them continues to deliver a satisfactory level Staff costs have continued to rise against a backdrop of subdued of profitability.
Like-for-like revenue can be analysed as follows: Fuel costs have reduced, reflecting market fuel prices and our fuel 2017 2016 hedging programme.
m m Change Non-exceptional gains on property disposals, principally on two specific Commercial on and off bus revenue properties, were higher than in the previous year.
com 23.8 24.0 0.8 % Our continued investment in our vehicle fleet and technology is other 596.6 601.0 0.7 % reflected in higher depreciation charges.
Concessionary revenue 246.6 246.2 0.2% Other costs have increased, including higher ITand digital costs as we Commercial & concessionary revenue 867.0 871.2 0.5 % progress our digital programme.
Tendered and school revenue 99.9 110.3 9.4 % Networks and pricing Contract revenue 38.8 39.3 1.3 % Providing our customers with value-for-money travel is at the heart of Hires and excursions 2.6 2.9 10.3 % our strategy.
Independent research by transport specialists TAS, Like-for-like revenue 1,008.3 1,023.7 1.5 % published in February 2017, found that weekly bus travel offered by Stagecoach is almost 10% cheaper than the UK average.
Stagecoach was The like-for-like revenue growth rates across our core regional bus also found to have the countrys lowest average single bus fares.
Our businesses ranged from around minus 4% to plus 4% in the year, reflecting market-leading low fares, and the fact that there were no price rises on our view that the subdued revenue trends reflect variations in local many of our tickets in the previous 12 months, has also given us economies and traffic conditions to a greater extent than they reflect any flexibility to make targeted changes to pricing recently whilst remaining nationwide structural changes in transport markets.
competitive to the private car.
The age at which older people are entitled to free bus travel in England has We are pleased to have partnered with Special Olympics Great Britain to been increasing in line with changes to the state pension entitlement age.
support its National Games in Sheffield in August 2017.
We will provide Therefore, the number of older people eligible for free bus travel in daily transport for around 3,000 competitors and their sports coaches England has reduced year-on-year.
While that has some adverse effect on between their event accommodation and the 13 sports venues.
the number of concessionary passenger journeys on our bus services, it should have a positive effect on the number of commercial i. e. where the We are continuing to develop our megabus.
com inter-city coach brand in the UK.
In May 2017, we significantly expanded the network with a series passenger pays for his or her own travel journeys.
To understand the year-on-year revenue trends, therefore, we consider commercial and of new routes across the Midlands and south-west England, offering concessionary revenue together.
direct links to Heathrow or Gatwick Airport from 13 towns and cities.
See definitions in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 18 Strategic report Enhanced customer experience a significant focus on partnerships and that some proposals introduced We are continuing to invest in the quality of our services, initiatives to during its passage through Parliament which would not have benefitted further increase customer satisfaction, and steps to deliver better air quality either customers or taxpayers have been reversed.
The important for local communities.
In April 2017, we announced orders worth 70m for associated statutory instruments and guidance linked to the Act are not yet around 340 new Euro 6 standard vehicles for 2017 18, most of which will finalised and we are continuing to engage constructively with key be built in the UK and support the country's manufacturing sector.
Our focus is to ensure that there are proper protections for half the new vehicles ordered meet the Governments Low Carbon Emission passengers, taxpayers and bus operators, including a robust and transparent Bus specification, while around two-thirds feature innovative stop-start assessment process for evaluating any proposed franchising of bus services.
technology to help improve fuel consumption and reduce emissions.
All A National Transport Bill is expected to be introduced in Scotland in the near new vehicles are fitted with CCTV and USB charging points, while most will future.
We are engaging with key stakeholders on what this may mean for also offer free Wi-Fi.
It brings our total investment in new buses and our bus operations in Scotland and will continue to monitor developments.
coaches in the UK to well over 1bn in the past 11 years, delivering around Outlook 7,000 new vehicles.
We continue to expect subdued revenue trends from our local bus services We have also further invested in our digital offerings.
Our new Stagecoach in the short-term.
We have implemented targeted mileage reductions and Bus smartphone app provides customers with journey planning, next-stop selective fare rises, as we make changes to our services that we consider information and live bus tracking, and enables people to buy and download will support the long-term success of the business.
Our costs remain well bus tickets straight to their mobile phone.
Smart ticketing is in place at all controlled, although the reduction in fuel costs in 2017 18 is anticipated to Stagecoach regional companies with more than two million be more modest than that for the year ended 29 April 2017.
StagecoachSmart cards in circulation and more than 330 million smart transactions every year.
In partnership with other bus companies, we have We have not significantly changed our expectation of the Divisions ensured multi-operator smart ticketing is available in all of Englands city operating profit for the year ending 28 April 2018 since our last update on regions, benefitting around 15 million people.
We are pleased to have been trading.
part of the launch of Scotlands first smartcard multi-operator initiative 1.5.
2 megabus Europe covering Aberdeen City and Aberdeenshire, as well as the introduction of a similar initiative in Dundee.
Further multi-operator schemes are set to follow Summary in Glasgow and Edinburgh.
These projects will provide a platform to deliver Exit from megabus Europe business completed multi-modal travel in partnership with transport authorities.
During No further losses expected 2016 17, we started the roll-out of contactless payment technology across our UK regional bus services.
This technology allows passengers to pay for their travel with contactless credit or debit card, Apple Pay and Android Pay.
Financial performance The most recent independent research by Transport Focus shows that our The financial performance of the megabus Europe Division excluding customers continue to have high levels of satisfaction with Stagecoach exceptional items for the year ended 29 April 2017 is summarised below: services, as high as 93% in some areas, and we have again been rated as 2017 2016 offering the best value for money of any major bus company.
m m Change Local partnerships and devolved arrangements Revenue and like-for-like revenue 20.2 18.4 9.8% One of the Divisions strengths is the breadth of partnership working with Operating loss 4.3 24.1 82.2 % local authorities who understand the joint responsibility we share for Operating margin 21.3 % 131.0 % 10,970bp improving bus services for passengers.
We are pleased to have signed a new partnership agreement that will deliver significant investment in improved The Group completed the sale of the retailing part of the megabus Europe bus services in Merseyside over the next five years.
The Liverpool City Region business to FlixBus on 1 July 2016.
The consideration was satisfied by the Bus Alliance, a partnership with Merseytravel and Arriva, will deliver more issue of a loan note and that loan note was settled in full in December 2016. than 25m worth of investment in bus services in the first year to boost The Group also agreed to transfer a number of vehicles to FlixBus, or a services for existing passengers and attract more people to bus travel.
These transfers are now largely completed.
After taking Around 80% of public transport journeys in the Liverpool City Region are account of costs and losses related to the sale, we have reported a pre-tax made by bus, with overall customer satisfaction at 89%.
The partnership will exceptional loss on the disposal of the business of 6.9m.
The exceptional provide a more modern bus fleet, improved smartcard ticketing, Wi-Fi and loss has increased from the loss of 2.8m reported for the half-year ended USB charging on all new buses, joint marketing campaigns, improved bus 29 October 2016, mainly reflecting additional costs relating to the Groups links, and clearly defined targets around punctuality and passenger exit from its operations in France.
This builds on existing strong partnerships in several other city regions and local authority areas around the country.
We are developing The operating loss of 4.3m shown above represents the loss incurred prior similar partnership proposals in conjunction with fellow bus operators for to 1 July 2016, partly offset by a small profit from the operation from 1 July other key regions.
2016 of an international network of coach services between the UK and mainland Europe.
These services were operated by us under contract to New mayors have been appointed in a number of areas where we operate local bus services.
A further mayoral election for the Sheffield City Region FlixBus, where the revenue from passengers flowed to FlixBus and FlixBus paid us for the operation of the coach services.
These services have now will take place in May 2018.
We look forward to continuing to engage with ceased operating.
We have also ceased operating the other coach services the newly appointed mayors and local authorities in these regions and demonstrating how a partnership between bus operators and the public we previously ran in mainland Europe prior to 1 July 2016.
Losses on all of these services since 1 July 2016 and costs associated with terminating sector offers the best and most cost effective route to deliver on their aspirations for stronger and smarter local bus networks.
services, where applicable, have been accounted for as part of the exceptional loss on the sale of the retail business.
The Bus Services Act came into effect in April 2017 and makes some amendments to the framework for the delivery of bus services in England No further profits or losses are currently expected in respect of megabus Europe.
We are pleased that this enabling legislation has retained page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 19 volume risk in the short-term, a combination of declining revenues and 1.5.
3 UK Bus London moves by central government to make the London bus network selfSummary financing means that Transport for London's current business plan envisages no significant growth in London bus mileage for the next five Significant value delivered since 2010 acquisition years.
London Bus operator of the year 2017 Pressure on wage rates and competition for new contracts Outlook expected to result in lower operating profit in short-term We currently expect our UK Bus London operating profit to reduce in the Significant value in freehold property portfolio year ending 28 April 2018.
That reflects two main factors.
Firstly, to ensure we recruit and retain sufficient bus drivers to continue to reliably provide Financial performance the contracted bus services, we plan to increase our starting rates of pay for The financial performance of the UK Bus London Division for the year bus drivers reflecting market conditions in London.
Secondly, we are seeing ended 29 April 2017 is summarised below: heightened competition for contracts in some parts of our London operations resulting in us losing some contracts.
While this means that the 2017 2016 2017 18 operating margin is likely to be below our long-term aspiration of m m Change at least 7%, we plan to continue to bid for new contract opportunities at Revenue 263.4 267.1 1.4 % prices we believe would deliver appropriate rates of return.
4 North America Operating margin 7.0% 7.6% 60 bp Summary We have generated significant value from our acquisition of the London Actions taken to adjust megabus.
com networks to reflect bus business in 2010, when we paid around 60m to acquire the business.
passenger demand In the last three years alone, the business has delivered over 60m of New contract wins operating profit.
Introduction of low-cost digital offerings for customers The value of the business is supported by its freehold property portfolio.
Targeting growth in operating profit in 2017 18 Property in London is expensive and our properties provide a strong base for the continuing operation of our bus services in East and South East Financial performance London.
We believe the properties would also realise significant value if The financial performance of the North America Division for the year they were to be sold to third parties.
ended 29 April 2017 is summarised below: As expected, like-for-like revenue was slightly down at 0.8% below the 2017 2016 prior year.
That reflected a net reduction in vehicle miles operated US$m US$m Change resulting from contract tenders concluded in the prior year.
Revenue per vehicle mile increased 1.4%.
Revenue 632.3 647.7 2.4 % Like-for-like revenue 632.6 646.2 2.1 % The movement in operating margin was built up as follows: Operating profit 25.0 28.4 12.0 % Operating margin 2015 16 7.6% Operating margin 4.0% 4.4% 40 bp Change in: Insurance and claims costs 0.7% Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: Fuel costs 0.6% Staff costs 0.3 % 2017 2016 Operating lease costs 0.4 % US$m US$m Change Other 1.2 % megabus.
com 193.0 202.9 4.9 % Operating margin 2016 17 7.0% Scheduled service Commercial revenue 158.1 159.5 0.9 % Insurance and claims costs have reduced due to lower costs on the selfSupport from local authorities 20.5 19.0 7.9% insured portion of claims.
Charter 119.0 121.7 2.2 % Although the Divisions fuel costs have reduced year-on-year, there is an Sightseeing and tour 23.8 27.9 14.7 % offsetting effect from the impact of lower fuel costs on the indexation of Contract services 118.2 115.2 2.6% contract revenue.
Staff and other costs have continued to rise as a Like-for-like revenue 632.6 646.2 2.1 % proportion of revenue.
We have built a sustainable business in the contracted London bus market The market in North America has been challenging in recent years due through a measured approach to bidding, a focus on high operational to the effects of sustained lower fuel prices, which have heightened car quality and a close control of costs.
Our East London bus business was and air competition.
However, trading at our megabus.
com inter-city named Bus Operator of the Year at the 2017 London Transport Awards in coach business shows some signs of improvement with the rate of recognition of high levels of reliability, driving standards and customer revenue decline further moderating and revenue per mile for the year satisfaction.
up 3.2% including as a result of the positive action we have taken to Road works and traffic congestion are a continuing challenge for match our services with changes in demand from customers.
As well as operators in the London bus market.
Engagement is ongoing with both having taken proactive steps to reduce the mileage operated by Transport for London and the London Assembly on these issues.
com in North America, we are making targeted use of smaller believe congestion is a major factor in the decline in bus passenger vehicles.
In addition, we have moved the core operating bases of our volumes, which are now falling at a faster rate in the capital than in the Midwest operation from Chicago to Wisconsin and Ohio to deliver a rest of the country.
While London bus operators do not take passenger more efficient service.
Marketing activity to promote the megabus.
com Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 07 07 2017 10:52 Page 20 Strategic report brand in North America and to generate new customers is particularly 1.5.
5 UK Rail focused on digital channels.
We remain well positioned to quickly Summary respond to further recovery in demand.
Trading at the other businesses in North America remains in line with Engaged in discussions with Department for Transport on our expectations.
While revenue from the more leisure-dependent contractual matters at Virgin Trains East Coast, including implications activities charter, sightseeing and tour reduced during the year, we of Network Rails reprioritised infrastructure programme saw better trends in our scheduled service and contract revenues.
The Onerous contract provision at Virgin Trains East Coast, reflecting fall in like-for-like revenue from sightseeing and tours largely reflects expected losses in the near-term, but business expected to be reductions in mileage at our sightseeing business in California.
Contract profitable from 2019 revenue growth of 2.6% includes recent contract wins and we are Rate of Stagecoach UK Rail revenue growth ahead of sector currently in discussions regarding several further opportunities to secure South West Trains franchise due to end in August 2017 new contract business.
Shortlisted for new East Midlands and South Eastern franchises As in the UK, the North America Division is expanding its digital Joint venture with Virgin and SNCF shortlisted to bid for new West initiatives.
Given the smaller size of the North America business relative Coast Partnership franchise to our UK business, a number of our digital initiatives in North America Shortlisted for involvement in California High Speed Rail project have been focused on ideas that are relatively low cost to the business but which are valued by customers.
As well as offering a link to buy Financial performance travel on some of our current commuter services to and from New York The financial performance of the UK Rail Division excluding exceptional City, our new www.
com website also allows commuters items for the year ended 29 April 2017 is summarised below: to provide us with details of their commutes to enable us to develop new services for journeys not already well served by public transport.
2017 2016 Our airport express services have increased their online sales m m Change significantly following the launch of more mobile-friendly websites.
We Revenue 2,160.7 2,129.1 1.5% currently have a small group of staff working on how we can further Like-for-like revenue 2,160.7 2,118.0 2.0% improve our digital offerings, marketing, branding and overall customer Operating profit 31.0 66.7 53.5 % service at our airport express services.
com website has recently been launched to Operating margin 1.4% 3.1% 170 bp promote and sell our new coach services between Stewart International As expected, profit at the UK Rail Division has declined year-on-year, Airport and New York City, linking the city to new low-cost international principally due to our operations at Virgin Trains East Coast and South flights from Norwegian Air.
West Trains, where passenger revenue growth was insufficient to cover The movement in the operating margin was built up as follows: the combination of increased premia payments to Government and Operating margin 2015 16 4.4% movements in operating costs.
Change in: Revenue growth at our UK Rail Division, and for the UK rail sector as a Fuel costs 2.3% whole, has been lower over the last eighteen months or so than was Insurance and claim costs 1.1 % generally seen in preceding years.
Like-for-like revenue growth in our UK Staff costs 1.0 % Rail Division was 2.0%.
After normalising for differences in the timing of Other 0.6 % events between years and for one-off revenue effects, we estimate that underlying revenue growth was around 2.4%.
This compares favourably Operating margin 2016 17 4.0% to our estimate of 2.0% normalised revenue growth for UK franchised train operators in general over that period.
We believe the reduced rate The main changes in the operating margin shown above are: of growth over the last eighteen months or so reflects a number of Fuel costs have reduced by around US$16m reflecting changes in factors including the following: vehicle miles operated, market fuel prices and our fuel hedging Poor Network Rail operating performance impacting some train programme.
companies within our UK Rail Division, although Virgin Rail Groups The change in insurance and claims costs reflects our latest assessment West Coast franchise is seeing notable improvements in infrastructure of the required provision for claims.
Overall staff costs are in line with the previous year but have risen as a Increased car competition as a result of historically low fuel prices.
proportion of our lower revenue base.
Continued aggressive competition from airlines in light of lower fuel prices.
Outlook Slower UK GDP growth and weakened consumer and business As oil prices have stabilised, the trend in our megabus.
com revenue per confidence, including uncertainty among consumers and businesses vehicle mile has improved.
If these revenue trends continue to recover, following the UKs decision to leave the European Union.
we have the fleet capacity and operational plans to increase our overall The effect of changing working patterns on commuter services.
We also see growth opportunities for the Division in new contract wins Virgin Trains East Coast contractual arrangements but will remain disciplined in ensuring that our contract bids are designed We are engaged in discussions with the Department for Transport to deliver a satisfactory rate of return on capital.
regarding the terms of our continued operation of the Virgin Trains East Given the actions we have taken to match our services with customer Coast franchise.
This takes account of our respective rights and demand, and new contract opportunities, we are targeting growth in the obligations under the existing franchise agreement, including in respect Divisions operating profit in 2017 18. of the reprioritisation of Network Rails infrastructure programme.
Accordingly, we expect Virgin Trains East Coast to be profitable from 2019 under new commercial terms.
Virgin Trains East Coast has already delivered extensive promised improvements for passengers and completed a significant part of its page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 21 overall 140m investment programme for the franchise to create a more we have had a positive response from customers to our Beam personalised travel experience for customers.
This has included a entertainment system, and we have introduced free WiFi for those complete upgrade of the existing train fleet, new services and extra customers that book direct with Virgin Trains East Coast.
We have also capacity, improved fares and ticketing, as well as harnessing new transformed the dining and shopping experience for customers with a technology to deliver better information, on-board service and station revamped menu and food bar packed with new products.
As a result, Virgin Trains East Coast has amongst the highest Trains brand advertising campaign has been launched and Virgin Trains customer satisfaction of any franchised rail operator.
At the same time, has also expanded its customer contact centre in Newcastle.
Virgin Trains East Coast has continued to meet its contractual and Our investment programme and marketing initiatives have had a financial obligations, including delivering around 525m to 29 April 2017 positive impact on passenger volumes and customer satisfaction.
There in premium payments to the taxpayer.
This is around 30% more than the has been an increase in the number of passengers choosing train over average monthly payments made by Directly Operated Railways when it plane, the result of a deliberate strategy by Virgin to win market share ran the East Coast route.
Trading, however, at Virgin Trains East Coast on the UKs busiest domestic air route.
Customers consistently rate have been challenging for some time, for the reasons we have set out in Virgin Trains as one of the top long-distance rail franchise operators in previous reports.
Revenue and profit at Virgin Trains East Coast have the National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS commissioned by industry been below the levels anticipated in our 2014 bid for the franchise, albeit watchdog, Transport Focus.
Figures for the autumn 2016 survey show the shortfalls are primarily due to macroeconomic and other external 91% satisfaction, which is the best autumn result on the East Coast factors beyond its control.
Revenue growth for the UK rail sector as a route in three years and puts Virgin Trains East Coast top of the whole has also been adversely affected by macroeconomic and other franchised long-distance rail operators.
Recently, the business has incurred operating losses.
While revenue trends showed some improvement in the second half of East Midlands Trains the year to 29 April 2017, revenue is not growing as strongly as we Like-for-like revenue at East Midlands Trains grew 3.3% in the year.
The anticipated and most recently, revenue has been adversely affected by business is delivering a strong financial performance and a share of that increased terrorism concerns and political uncertainty.
In addition, the strong performance is being paid to the Department for Transport under amounts payable to and receivable from Network Rail in respect of the franchise profit share arrangement.
The current East Midlands operating performance remain volatile and uncertain.
Trains franchise is contracted to run until 4 March 2018.
The Department Our bid for the franchise reflected forecast financial benefits of new for Transport has the option to extend the contract by up to one year on rolling stock and enhanced railway infrastructure.
While we and the commercial terms that have been agreed and has already indicated its Department for Transport continue to expect improved rolling stock and intention to extend the franchise to November 2018. infrastructure, the scope and timing of those have been reprioritised such that they are not consistent with what was assumed in our South West Trains franchise bid and then contracted.
Our contractual position is that the South West Trains like-for-like revenue grew by 0.6% in the year.
It financial risks related to changes in the scope and timing of new rolling currently receives revenue support from the Department for Transport stock and infrastructure rest with the Department for Transport.
such that any future shortfall in revenue versus our current expectation We expect Virgin Trains East Coast to incur losses under the current would be 80% offset by increased revenue support income from the contract but taking account of our contractual rights and obligations, we Department.
would expect the franchise to be profitable from 2019.
Accordingly, in the We were disappointed to hear in March 2017 that we had been financial statements for the year ended 29 April 2017, we have recorded unsuccessful in our bid to operate the next South Western franchise.
an exceptional pre-tax charge of 84.1m to reflect that the current The current South West Trains franchise is due to expire in August 2017. contractual arrangements give rise to an onerous contract.
We have also In the final months of our franchise, we are continuing to work hard to recorded a 44.8m impairment of intangible assets associated with the deliver a professional service to our customers, meet our obligations right to operate the franchise.
The impairment charge is essentially an and ensure a smooth transition to the new operator.
Satisfaction acceleration of amortisation and is a non-cash charge.
The Stagecoach amongst South West Trains passengers is continuing to increase, with parent company is committed to loan up to 165m to Virgin Trains East the latest independent research by Transport Focus showing that overall Coast, of which 10% is to be funded by Virgin.
As at 29 April 2017, the loan satisfaction has risen to 83%, up from 81% in autumn 2015.
Overall to Virgin Trains East Coast was 57.5m.
satisfaction with South West Trains services was higher than both the national and London & South East sector average.
Virgin Trains East Coast revenue, investment and customer satisfaction We are proud to have operated the network under the South West Trains brand for more than 20 years.
Over that time, we have delivered As previously highlighted, revenue at Virgin Trains East Coast remains significant improvements for our customers.
We believe we submitted below our original plans for the franchise, with like-for-like revenue a strong bid for the new South Western franchise.
It offered a growth in the year of 3.2%.
However, customers are responding well to transformation in the travel experience for our customers, more our improvements and we are yet to deliver some of the major investment to help the railway support the communities and economy elements of our planned investment programme to transform customer of the south-west, as well as a substantial and deliverable financial journeys and increase revenue.
benefit to taxpayers to help fund better public services.
We have now completed a 40m investment in upgrading the existing We have received feedback from the Department for Transport on the train fleet, which has seen nearly 25,000 new seats installed.
Customers can also now benefit from 42 additional services per week between various elements of our bid.
Together with our own review of our bid, this will inform our approach to bids for other new franchises.
Edinburgh and London, providing 22,000 extra seats.
Next year should see the introduction of completely new Azuma trains being built in the We are most grateful to all of our employees and partners who have UK by Hitachi.
We are continuing to innovate to make travel easier and been involved in delivering our vision for the railway in the south-west more enjoyable for our customers.
In an industry first, Virgin Trains East over the past two decades as well as those who contributed to our Coast extended its booking horizon from the industry standard of three strong bid for the new franchise.
We know they share our months to six months in advance for weekday tickets and has recently disappointment in the result.
extended this to include weekends.
We have launched a global first in Franchising update rail travel technology with our new Explorer app which helps customers navigate their way around stations to locate friends, shops and We are pleased that the Group is one of three bidders to have been shortlisted by the Department for Transport for the new East Midlands platforms.
The app also enables real time automatic sign translation for international customers to read signs in their own language.
The new franchise, which is likely to be for between seven Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 22 Strategic report and 15 years, is due to start in 2018 when the current East Midlands 1.5.
6 Joint Ventures Trains contract comes to an end.
6.1 Virgin Rail Group We have also been shortlisted to bid for the new South Eastern Summary franchise.
The franchise, which runs from 2018, incorporates rail services in south east London, Kent, the Medway towns and East Sussex.
Profit growth, record punctuality and high customer satisfaction In April 2017, we confirmed that Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group Revenue growth ahead of sector average had joined forces with French high speed operator, SNCF, to bid for the Opportunity for further Direct Award franchise through to West Coast Partnership rail franchise.
This creates a powerful worldMarch 2019 class partnership, bringing together the team which has transformed inter-city rail travel in the UK with the most recognised and capable high Financial performance speed operator in Europe.
Collectively, we have been shortlisted to bid for the new franchise, which is expected to run from 2019 and include The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail Group joint venture current West Coast services and the first three to five years of operation for the year ended 29 April 2017 is summarised below: of High Speed 2 services.
Stagecoach has a 50% share in the bid vehicle, 2017 2016 West Coast Partnership Limited, with a 30% share held by SNCF and the 49% share m m remaining 20% owned by Virgin.
It is envisaged that services under a successful bid would carry the Virgin brand.
Revenue 556.8 525.3 We take some encouragement from how the UK franchising model is Operating profit 31.5 32.6 developing.
The parent company of a franchised train operator is Net finance income 0.5 0.7 required to commit loan facilities, which can be drawn down by the Taxation 7.2 9.1 train operator where necessary to meet contractual obligations or funding needs.
We are encouraged by early signs of moderation in the Profit after tax 24.8 24.2 amount of such loan commitments.
We are also encouraged to hear Operating margin 5.7% 6.2% that the Department for Transport recognises that the risk sharing arrangements on franchises awarded in recent years leaves train Our share of Virgin Rail Groups profit after tax increased from 24.2m operators too financially exposed to risks outside of their control in in 2015 16 to 24.8m in 2016 17.
The business continues to deliver that regard, we welcome moves towards something more akin to a full strong profit margins for a franchised UK rail operator, notwithstanding sharing of revenue risk rather than just risk sharing arrangements based the slowing of UK rail sector revenue growth.
Virgin Rail Group's West on specific macroeconomic measures.
Coast rail franchise continues to perform well, with revenue growth We remain, however, concerned that the Department may continue to higher than the industry average, and that is benefitting taxpayers expect train operators to bear significant financial risks in relation to the through profit share payments by the business to the UK Department availability of the train paths required to operate the train services that for Transport.
The franchise, which is contracted to run until March an operator planned in its franchise bid and or in relation to Network 2018, is continuing to perform ahead of our expectations at the time Rails delivery of infrastructure improvements.
Both of these risks are the contract was agreed.
The Government has confirmed that it plans a affected by events outside of a train operators control yet can have short-term franchise of approximately 12 months to cover the period substantial financial consequences.
We will continue to share our views from the end of the current West Coast franchise in March 2018 until and ideas on the UK franchising model with the Department for the planned start of the West Coast Partnership franchise in April 2019.
Virgin Rail Group is in discussions with the Department for Transport We are one of five bidders shortlisted for an early train operator with a view to agreeing commercial terms to that end.
ETO contract for a new high-speed railway being constructed in In March 2017, Virgin Trains marked 20 years of operating services on California.
The ETO will provide advice during the design and the West Coast route.
Over the past two decades, Virgin Trains has construction of the new rail system and would also be expected to revolutionised UK train travel with the introduction of new trains and initially run the train service.
We look forward to further understanding increased frequency along the route, as well as setting the industry the objectives and expectations of the high-speed rail authority with benchmark for customer service.
Latest National Rail Passenger Survey regards to the project.
results showed 90% customer satisfaction on West Coast, amongst the Outlook highest in the UK franchised rail sector.
Passenger growth and Our UK Rail operating profit for 2017 18 will reflect the end of our satisfaction have also coincided with punctuality reaching its highest South West Trains franchise with an expected full-year profit at East ever level since privatisation, as a result of strong partnership working Midlands Trains being partly offset by the costs of bidding for new with Network Rail.
We continue with our emphasis on growing revenue, During 2016 17, Virgin Trains West Coast has delivered further controlling costs and managing contracts.
It is the first train company to automatically compensate customers who book advance tickets through Revenue has been weaker in recent weeks reflecting the effects on demand of the dreadful terrorist attacks in Manchester and London as virgintrains.
com or its app if their train service is delayed.
In partnership well as political uncertainty related to the General Election and the UKs with thetrainline.
com, Virgin Trains has also become the first operator planned exit from the European Union.
This in turn increases to give customers the option to add train tickets straight to their Apple uncertainty in forecasting revenue for the weeks and months ahead.
Recently, the company unveiled its vision for the station of the future, with a radical new 1m-plus open plan design for Birmingham We will continue to consider rail bidding opportunities where we Internationals ticket office.
It features more user friendly information believe we can deliver benefits to passengers and add value for our screens, improved ticket machines and touch screen information points.
Our record of winning franchises, actively managing the contracts during the life of franchises and operational excellence leaves Customers can access roving staff equipped with tablets, wireless charging for devices, cashless payment at car park barriers to reduce us well placed to consider contract opportunities, not just in the UK but also overseas.
queues and free station Wi-Fi.
6.2 Twin America 1.6 Other financial matters Financial performance 1.6.
1 Pre-exceptional EBITDA, depreciation and intangible In February 2017, the Group completed the sale of its interest in the asset expenses Twin America LLC joint venture.
Twin America was a joint venture Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, between Stagecoach North America and City Sights.
It principally depreciation, intangible asset expenses and exceptional items preoperated sightseeing bus services in New York City.
Stagecoach North exceptional EBITDA amounted to 345.4m 2016: 370.0m.
PreAmerica, which held 50 per cent of the voting rights and 60 per cent of exceptional EBITDA can be reconciled to the consolidated financial the economic rights of the joint venture, sold its interest to City Sights.
statements as follows: We have recognised an exceptional gain of 11.6m in respect of the 2017 2016 disposal.
Our share of Twin Americas profit for the year ended 29 April m m 2017 is not material.
In the year ended 30 April 2016, we determined Total operating profit before that the carrying value of the Groups investment in Twin America was intangible asset expenses and impaired and an impairment loss was recorded to reduce the carrying exceptional items 192.8 228.8 value to nil as at 30 April 2016.
Depreciation 145.5 132.2 Litigation Add back joint venture finance income & tax 7.1 9.0 Related to the Twin America litigation involving the Group's North America Division, which we have set out in previous reports and which as Pre-exceptional EBITDA 345.4 370.0 noted in our annual report for the year ended 30 April 2016 was settled, the Department of Justice investigated the conduct of company The income statement charge for regular intangible asset amortisation personnel in responding to discovery obligations in the investigation and increased from 15.8m to 16.8m, principally due to higher software litigation.
The Group co-operated with the investigation, which is no amortisation associated with investment in technology.
longer ongoing, and we do not anticipate any further action.
Depreciation increased by 13.3m, reflecting continued capital investment and the effect of foreign exchange movements on the 1.5.
7 Other businesses sterling amount of depreciation for the North America Division.
We see both structural risks and opportunities from advancements in areas such as autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles, digital transport information 1.6.
2 Exceptional items and retail channels, the sharing economy such as digitally enabled car The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended sharing and different operating models for transport.
We continue to 29 April 2017: monitor developments in and participate in trials in these areas.
A pre-tax exceptional loss of 3.2m was recognised in respect of an In some cases, our participation in these areas sits outside our existing, impairment of surplus vehicles following the withdrawal of the core operating divisions.
That is because we believe we can better megabus Sleeper services in the UK.
harness multi-modal opportunities and explore new areas of transport A pre-tax exceptional gain of 7.1m was recognised in respect of the outwith the day-to-day management of the core divisions.
disposal of a depot within the UK Bus regional operations Division.
For example, earlier in 2017, we launched the TravelHero app.
The We do not ordinarily show gains and losses on the disposals of land and TravelHero concept is to provide a customer the opportunity to select buildings as exceptional items.
However, we consider that this gain from multiple travel modes and or operators for his or her journey.
The arising from the sale of a single UK Bus depot is sufficiently large that it app allows customers to plan, book, pay for and make travel.
We are should be presented as an exceptional gain to allow a proper currently trialling it in Canterbury, East Kent where it can be used to understanding of the Groups financial performance.
plan and purchase travel by buses and taxis.
2, a pre-tax exceptional loss of 6.9m was Also, earlier this year, we invested in Global Travel Ventures and now recognised in relation to the sale of the retailing part of the megabus hold around 20% of the equity in that company.
Global Travel Ventures Europe business.
builds clever technology to create better deals for travellers.
In January A pre-tax exceptional loss of 3.7m was recorded in relation to the 2017, it launched the first independent rail ticketing website, megabus.
com Midwest restructuring of operations, as explained in www.
com, in Great Britain for five years and the UKs first section 1.5.
4. post-pay contactless bus ticketing system outside London.
5, an exceptional pre-tax expense of 84.1m www.
com uses Global Travel Ventures in-house cloud has been recorded in respect of an onerous contract provision for technology to offer more cheap train journeys than anywhere else, Virgin Trains East Coast and an exceptional charge of 44.8m has also saving up to 60% compared with station kiosks or other websites for onbeen recognised in respect of Virgin Trains East Coast intangible assets.
6.2, a pre-tax exceptional gain of 11.6m was recognised in respect of the disposal of the Groups interest in Twin America.
The net effect of exceptional items was a pre-tax loss of 124.0m 2016: 67.2m.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 24 Strategic report Taking account of the planned further reduction in the rates of UK 1.6.
3 Net finance costs corporate tax rate, and assuming that the composition of the Group Net finance costs, excluding exceptional items, for the year ended 29 remains broadly unchanged, we consider the Groups sustainable, April 2017 were 34.1m 2016: 41.4m and can be further analysed as effective tax rate to be in the range of 18% to 23%.
5 Fuel costs Finance costs, excluding exceptional items The Groups operations as at 29 April 2017 consume approximately 411m litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, loan notes, overdrafts and trade finance 4.7 5.9 to movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel costs Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 1.7 2.1 include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the Interest payable and other finance costs on bonds 22.0 25.9 underlying product.
Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.5 3.9 movements in oil prices.
Interest charge on defined benefit pension schemes 3.7 5.3 The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is now hedged using fuel swaps is as follows: 35.6 43.1 Year ending April: 2018 2019 2020 2021 Finance income Interest receivable on cash 1.2 1.4 Total Group 81% 70% 48% 1% Effect of interest rate swaps 0.3 0.3 The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond April 2021.
1.5 1.7 Net finance costs, excluding exceptional items 34.1 41.4 1.6.
6 Cash flows and net debt The fall in net finance costs includes the benefit of the full-year effect of Net debt as analysed in note 29 c to the consolidated financial our 2015 bond re-financing.
statements has, as expected, increased from 30 April 2016, reflecting additional investment in our businesses, movements in foreign exchange 1.6.
4 Taxation rates causing an increase in the sterling value of our US dollar debt, Our share of profit from joint ventures is reported after tax in arriving at dividend payments and UK Rail working capital timing differences, partly the profit before tax in the consolidated income statement.
To better offset by continued strong cash generation from operations.
understand the Groups effective tax rate, we show below the Groups Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 29 April tax charge including our share of joint ventures tax relative to the 2017 was 253.7m 2016: 301.9m and can be further analysed as Groups profit before tax excluding joint ventures tax.
On that basis, the follows: effective tax rate for the year ended 29 April 2017, excluding exceptional 2017 2016 items, was 17.5% 2016: 18.9%.
m m The tax charge can be analysed as follows: EBITDA of Group companies before Year to 29 April 2017 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate exceptional items 312.1 336.2 m m % Cash effect of exceptional items 3.7 Excluding intangible asset expenses 166.3 28.3 17.0% Gain loss on disposal of property, and exceptional items plant and equipment 4.3 0.5 Intangible asset expenses 16.8 2.1 12.5% Equity-settled share based payment expense 1.9 2.2 149.5 26.2 17.5% Working capital movements 53.7 35.2 Net interest paid 26.7 30.6 Exceptional items 124.0 18.8 15.2% Dividends from joint ventures 28.1 28.8 25.5 7.4 29.0% Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 253.7 301.9 Reclassify joint venture taxation for reporting purposes 7.6 7.6 Net cash from operating activities before tax was 253.7m 2016: 301.9m and after tax was 232.1m 2016: 278.9m.
Net cash outflows Reported in income statement 17.9 0.2 1.1 % from investing activities were 100.7m 2016: 178.9m.
Net cash used in financing activities was 203.7m 2016: 114.8m.
The effective tax rate, excluding exceptional items, of 17.5% is lower than the 19.9% rate of UK corporation tax for the year.
The difference is The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the principally due to the utilisation of previously unrecognised historic tax year on net debt was 203.3m 2016: 213.5m.
This primarily related to losses.
expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of 155.5m 2016: 191.2m and new hire purchase and finance lease The cash tax paid in the year of 21.6m compares to a tax credit for Group companies of 0.2m shown above.
The largest difference relates debt of 47.8m 2016: 22.3m.
In addition, 46.0m 2016: 26.5m cash was received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
to the 18.8m tax credit recognised on exceptional items that has yet to affect cash tax.
The net impact of purchases and disposals of property, plant and Where there is uncertainty regarding the amount of tax that will equipment on net debt net capital expenditure, split by division, was: ultimately be payable, the Group generally recognises a liability for the 2017 2016 maximum amount it expects will be payable or an asset for the minimum m m amount it expects to receive.
In respect of periods up to 29 April 2017, the Group therefore considers there to be a low risk that it will be UK Bus regional operations 97.4 118.5 required to pay significantly more tax than is provided for in the megabus Europe 7.0 consolidated financial statements.
The areas where the Group sees UK Bus London 1.6 2.8 uncertainty around the amount of tax that is payable relate to the North America 37.4 45.6 financing of and transactions with overseas operations, losses incurred UK Rail 20.9 13.1 by overseas operations in the ordinary course of business and overseas 157.3 187.0 tax audits.
page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 25 The movement in net debt, showing train operating companies 1.6.
8 Net assets separately, was: Net assets at 29 April 2017 were 68.5m 2016: 177.8m.
Year to 29 April 2017 Train operating The decrease is after 67.1m of dividend payments and is principally due companies Other Total to the actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes and the Virgin m m m Trains East Coast exceptional items, partially mitigated by the solid EBITDA of Group companies financial results for the year ended 29 April 2017 and fair value gains on before exceptional items 46.6 265.5 312.1 cash flow hedges.
Cash effect of exceptional items 3.7 3.7 Loss gain on disposal of property, 1.6.
9 Retirement benefits plant and equipment 0.5 4.8 4.3 The reported net assets of 68.5m 2016: 177.8m that are shown on Equity-settled share based the consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net pre-tax payment expense 0.7 1.2 1.9 retirement benefit liabilities of 232.5m 2016: 96.7m, and associated Working capital movements 42.1 11.6 53.7 deferred tax assets of 44.4m 2016: 21.0m.
Net interest paid 1.7 25.0 26.7 The Group recognised net pre-tax actuarial losses of 127.6m in the year Dividends from joint ventures 28.1 28.1 ended 29 April 2017 2016: gains of 68.5m on Group defined benefit Net cash flows from operating activities pension schemes.
before taxation 4.0 249.7 253.7 The discount rate used to determine pension scheme liabilities is Inter-company movements 29.2 29.2 determined with reference to AA-rated bond yields.
As AA-rated bond Tax paid 12.7 8.9 21.6 yields have generally decreased in the year ended 29 April 2017, the Investing activities 25.8 122.7 148.5 forecast future cash flows to settle pension scheme liabilities are now Financing activities 70.2 70.2 discounted at a lower rate.
This is the principal reason for the pre-tax Foreign exchange other 23.5 23.5 actuarial losses and the increase in the pre-tax retirement benefit liabilities as at 29 April 2017.
10 Capital The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt The cash held by the train operating companies at any point in time is and any similar items.
As at 29 April 2017, the Groups capital comprised: affected by the timing of rail industry cash flows, which can be individually substantial.
The working capital cash outflow shown above 2017 2016 principally arises from funding received for specific projects in prior years m m within the overall franchise payments made by our train operating Market value of ordinary shares in issue companies, in advance of the related expenditure being made in the excluding shares held in treasury 1,167.3 1,478.6 year to 29 April 2017.
5, the current South West Trains franchise is Cash 313.3 382.3 due to expire in August 2017.
We anticipate that, at around that time, Gross debt 722.7 781.6 certain assets and liabilities of the Group will transfer to the operator of Net debt see section 1.6.
6 409.4 399.3 the next South West Trains franchise.
We currently anticipate that the net impact of the transfer on our consolidated net assets will be The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital immaterial.
However, taking account of the net cash that will transfer, is to optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the we would forecast that the expiry of the current South West Trains Groups ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to franchise will result all other things being equal in an increase in our continue to generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group takes consolidated net debt of approximately 100m in 2017 18.
As at 29 April account of the interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on 2017, 68.5m of cash held within South West Trains is included in our its capital structure.
consolidated net debt and the credit rating agencies already exclude such The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will cash from their own adjusted leverage figures.
be adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure of the Group, economic developments and other changes in 1.6.
7 Financial position and liquidity the Groups risk profile.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from The Group has maintained investment grade credit ratings and time to time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, appropriate headroom under its debt facilities.
return of value to shareholders and borrowing repayment of debt.
There During the year ended 29 April 2017, we extended the duration of are a number of factors that the Group considers in evaluating capital 480m of our committed, bi-lateral core bank facilities by a further year structure.
The Directors principal focus is on maintaining an investment to October 2021. grade credit rating.
As well as considering the measures applied by credit The Group continues to have an appropriate mix of long-term debt rating agencies, the other principal ratios that the Directors consider are enabling it to plan and invest with some certainty.
1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and 3 Net Debt to market The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what the optimal levels The ratio of net debt at 29 April 2017 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for are for these ratios.
Although Net Debt to market capitalisation has risen the year ended 29 April 2017 was 1.2 times 2016: 1.1 times.
in the year due to the Companys lower share price, the Directors remain Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 29 April 2017 was 10.3 content with the Groups capital structure.
times 2016: 9.0 times pre-exceptional net finance charges including It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating.
joint venture net finance income.
The Group is currently rated investment grade by three major, Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 333.8m at 29 April 2017 independent credit rating agencies.
That enhances our ability to access 2016: 281.2m were available to be drawn as bank loans with cost-effective funding on a timely basis and enables us to demonstrate further amounts available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the financial strength when bidding for UK rail franchises and other Group has available asset finance lines.
The financial standing of interested parties is considered by The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment government in determining the short list of bidders for a UK rail grade credit ratings to the Group.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 26 Strategic report The Board is continuing with its dividend policy of seeking to grow the 1.6.
13 Use of non-GAAP measures rate of dividend per share over time, and has increased the proposed Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with dividend for the year by over 4%.
The Group will continue to regularly International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European review its financial strategy and capital structure.
Union and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In measuring our performance, the financial measures that we 1.6.
11 Dividend policy use include those which have been derived from our reported results in It is the Groups policy to seek to grow the rate of dividend per ordinary order to eliminate factors which distort period-on-period comparisons.
share over time while aiming to maintain the dividend rate at a level These are considered non-GAAP financial measures, and include which is sustainable.
Taking account of the proposed final dividend of measures such as like-for-like revenue, pre-exceptional EBITDA and net 8.1 pence per share, the total dividend per share in respect of the year debt.
We believe this information, along with comparable GAAP ended 29 April 2017 is 11.9 pence.
measurements, is useful to shareholders and analysts in providing a basis The Group has not set specific targets for dividend growth or dividend for measuring our financial performance.
Note 34 to the consolidated cover ratios for the following reasons: financial statements provides further information on these non-GAAP The Group does not wish such targets to be viewed as a commitment financial measures.
or promise by the Board which, in turn, could act as pressure to pay certain levels of dividend in the future even when at that future point 1.7 Current trading and outlook in time, that might not be in the best interests of the Company and its We have made a satisfactory start to the year ending 28 April 2018 and stakeholders.
have not significantly changed our expectation of adjusted earnings per The appropriate pay-out ratio may vary based on many factors share for the year.
including the mix of bus versus rail in the Groups portfolio and factors We see positive long-term prospects for public transport.
There is a affecting the outlook that are not reflected in the historically reported large market opportunity for modal shift from cars to public transport figures.
against a backdrop of technological advancements, rising road Earnings may be volatile from year-to-year.
We would look for congestion and increasing environmental awareness.
We have a growth strategy built on continued investment, value-for-money travel and high dividend rates to be more stable and not to fluctuate as significantly as earnings simply to achieve target cover ratios.
The Group is in good financial shape.
Our core debt is committed and in As at 29 April 2017, the Companys distributable reserves totalled place for over a further four years and we remain investment grade 247.7m 2016: 338.0m, which compares to dividends paid in cash in rated.
In addition, we consider that the Companys distributable reserves could be further 1.8 Corporate Social Responsibility increased through dividends from subsidiary companies and or changes in the Group structure.
The Group considers there to be a low risk that statement of non-financial information the level of distributable reserves will be a constraining factor on Section 1.4.
1 of this Annual Report contains a description of the Groups dividend payments for the foreseeable future.
6 describes key performance indicators, The Group has significant undrawn, committed bank facilities as including non-financial performance indicators, relevant to the Groups explained further in section 1.6.
5 includes a description of principal risks and this there to be a low risk that the level of available liquidity cash resources section 1.8 provides information on how we approach our social will be a constraining factor on dividend payments for the foreseeable responsibilities.
Our business and our people make a significant contribution to society.
10 above, the Directors are focused on On average, more than three million journeys a day are made on our maintaining an investment grade credit rating and as noted in section transport services and in enabling those journeys, we: 1.6.
7, the three main credit rating agencies continue to assign Connect people, families and communities investment grade credit ratings to the Group.
Where the Group was no Help individuals access health, education, employment and leisure longer investment grade rated or there was a significant risk of that, the Support jobs, the skills base and economic growth Board would review the dividend policy.
Play our part in tackling climate change 1.6.
12 Treasury policies and objectives Like most businesses, we want to generate value for our employees and our Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central shareholders, but we want to do that responsibly and in partnership with all treasury department together, Group Treasury under policies our stakeholders.
Our responsible approach to business includes taking an approved by the Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges appropriate approach to our people and our customers: safety and security: financial risks in co-operation with the Groups operating units.
The Board the accessibility and affordability of our transport services: environmental provides written principles for overall treasury risk management, as well stewardship and performance: good governance: and building community as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, relationships.
Our strong customer focus, commitment to sustainability, and interest rate risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments and sector-leading reputation has been independently recognised by a range of investing excess liquidity.
Right across our global operations, we will continue to work with our stakeholders to become a better employer, a stronger business The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, and a more effective community partner.
lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the business.
We have published separate documents setting out our approach to corporate social responsibility.
These documents can be found on our See note 25 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of website at the following link: the Groups exposure to financial risks: http: www.
the Groups treasury risk management: This section includes just a small number of examples of our work to the Groups management of interest rate risk: demonstrate the steps we are taking to meet our responsibilities.
the Groups fuel hedging: the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and the Groups management of credit risk.
page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 27 Also in 2016 17, we surveyed our staff across the Group.
1 Living our values results of the surveys and working with employee representatives, we Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies, which are are progressing further improvements in how we operate.
detailed in our Group Code of Conduct.
Stagecoach promotes a culture of openness across all its businesses and our objective is to ensure the highest standards of probity and accountability.
4 Diversity further updated during the year, sets out key principles and provides The Group recognises and values the individuality and diversity that each practical examples and guidance to help shape employees corporate employee brings to the business.
We value diversity in its wider sense behaviour across all levels of the business.
The Board of Directors and it is our policy to facilitate diversity of age, gender and background remains committed to ensuring appropriate processes, controls, across our workforce.
We are particularly focused on promoting gender governance and culture exists to support the maintenance of these diversity.
The Code of Conduct is subject to periodic The table below shows the gender split at different levels within the review.
A copy of our Code of Conduct can be found at the following link: organisation, as at 29 April 2017.
The Groups workforce is around 82.8% http: www.
male and that high proportion is common in the ground transportation In addition, we have a Speaking Up policy, also updated in 2016 17, industry.
which is designed to ensure that employees can raise serious concerns %% without fear of victimisation, discrimination or disadvantage.
A copy of Population Male Female Total Male Female the document is available at: Board 83 11 72.7% 27.3% http: www.
2 Supporting and recognising our people Our employees are fundamental to the success of the Group and we Senior management is defined as those employees who receive awards under encourage diversity across our business.
We believe in empowering and the Groups Executive Participation Plan and individuals who are statutory engaging with our people, promoting a positive culture where employees directors of the corporate entities whose financial information is included in the are treated with respect and given equal opportunity to develop.
This Groups 2017 consolidated financial statements in the Annual Report.
This means that we are able to provide a better service to our customers.
satisfies the definition set out in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and We have initiatives in place designed to nurture the next generation of Directors Report Regulations 2013. talent to support the business and help our people achieve their The equivalent figures as at 30 April 2016 were: potential.
We have strong vocational training programmes in our bus and rail businesses and we continue to invest in developing our people.
%% Population Male Female Total Male Female We are proud that Stagecoach UK Bus won the Large Employer Category at the People 1st Apprenticeship Awards in 2017 for the robustness of Board 82 10 80.0% 20.0% our programme, which has been in place for more than a decade.
During Senior management 93 23 116 80.2% 19.8% National Apprenticeship Week in 2017, we launched an initiative to Whole workforce 33,488 6,637 40,125 83.5% 16.5% encourage more women to join the bus industry as engineers and we are continuing with our campaign to attract more female bus drivers.
5 Promoting safety We also have programmes in place to promote the health and well-being Safety is at the heart of our business and our overall approach is given of our people.
Our annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which are direction through the Groups Strategic Safety Framework.
We have a open to all employees, recognise excellence in the areas of safety, strong focus on employee training, accident reduction, regulatory community, health, customer service, environment and innovation.
Health and safety processes and In 2016 17, we have further extended the use of our intranet, The Loop.
performance are monitored and reported on across the Group with The Loop provides further opportunities for communication among our action taken should there be a need to address issues within our people.
Our Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by a non-executive director, considers this area of the business and Further information is available here: monitors a range of performance indicators, reporting to the Board on http: www.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have the same commitment as our employees to complying with appropriate health and 1.8.
3 Employment policies safety regulations and policies.
We aim to have a motivated team of people that will meet the expectations of our customers, improve our business and be rewarded Each of our divisions and operating companies has policies which are for their commitment.
Equality of opportunity is one of our key values, appropriate to the transport modes they deliver.
We are focused on regardless of disability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, belief, age, meeting and in many cases exceeding regulatory requirements and nationality, race or ethnic origin.
The Group gives full consideration to performance standards.
Detailed policies, risk assessments and safe applications for employment from people with disabilities.
working procedures are in place covering various aspects of our activities including noise, vibration, display screen equipment and the Working Where existing employees become affected by a disability and where Time Directive.
Performance is measured and reviewed at operating practicable, our Group policy is to provide continuing employment under company and Group level.
This is supported by analysis of audit results normal terms and conditions.
We also provide training, career and review of civil liabilities claims to address any issues around policies development and equal consideration for promotion.
The Group is and working procedures.
A core part of our approach is encouraging committed to employee participation and we use a variety of methods to employees to report any concerns.
inform, consult and involve employees.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business through the Groups bonus and other We work with local communities to encourage a safe environment remuneration schemes and are encouraged to invest through around our transport networks and use of our services, particularly with participation in share schemes.
We are also committed to a continuing young people.
We invest in technologies which can make our services dialogue with trade unions, which represent the majority of the Groups safer for customers, our employees and other people.
Further employees, on a wide range of issues.
A wide range of communications information and examples of our initiatives are available at: channels are used to keep our people informed and engaged.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 28 Strategic report 1.8.
6 Accessible and affordable travel 2016 17 We believe that providing accessible and affordable travel is central to Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 encouraging modal shift from the private car to greener, smarter public of revenue transport.
Stagecoach has regularly been independently assessed as Scope 1 having the lowest bus fares of any major operator in the UK.
Recent research by Transport Focus found that bus passengers rated Stagecoach Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, as the best national UK bus operator for value for money.
petrol and heating oil 998,765 0.25 Stagecoach is the only UK bus operator to operate a long-term Operation of facilities refrigerants 20,467 0.01 nationwide discounted travel scheme for jobseekers and we have a range Total Scope 1 1,019,232 0.26 of discounted ticketing options for young people.
Scope 2 We are committed to improving accessibility of our buses, trains and stations.
Our planned investment of 70m in 340 new buses and coaches Purchased electricity 345,544 0.09 for 2017 18 will ensure that all of our local bus fleets in the UK are fully Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,364,776 0.35 accessible.
It will mean Stagecoach Group has invested over 1bn in more than 7,000 greener and more accessible buses and coaches since 2015 16 2006 07.
Automatic vehicle location technology is fully deployed across our UK regional bus fleet, providing real time service information to Greenhouse Gas Emission Source tonnes CO e Kg CO e 2 2 customers via our smartphone app and online.
It also provides a of revenue technology platform to deliver audio visual next stop information via Scope 1 smartphones, including those which support blind and partially-sighted people.
In the UK, Stagecoach is a founder partner in the national Fuel combustion natural gas, diesel, Accessible Travel Alliance, an industry-leading group of travel operators petrol and heating oil 1,009,003 0.26 working with the Whizz-Kidz charity to improve transport accessibility Operation of facilities refrigerants 23,586 0.01 for young wheelchair users.
On our rail networks, we are working with Total Scope 1 1,032,589 0.27 government to introduce easier disabled access at stations.
The Group is also investing in new digital technologies and working with Scope 2 other transport partners to introduce simpler travel through smart, Purchased electricity 394,906 0.10 integrated ticketing.
Statutory total Scope 1 & 2 1,427,495 0.37 For further information, please go to: http: www.
aspx Statutory carbon reporting disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
7 Environmental stewardship The Group has used the UK Government Environmental Reporting Stagecoach Group has a sustainability strategy covering the five years to Guidance methodology in reporting its greenhouse gas emissions, April 2019.
It follows a 30% reduction in Stagecoach Groups carbon together with emissions factors from the DEFRA DECC Greenhouse Gas intensity since 2007 08 and the achievement of previous targets 12 Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2016. months ahead of schedule.
By April 2019, the Group is aiming to reduce We define our organisational boundary using the financial control buildings carbon emissions by 7%: cut like-for-like fleet transport carbon approach and use a materiality threshold for the Group of 5% of emissions by 2%: lower water consumption by 9% and achieve a waste estimated Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
We have reported on all the recycling rate of 83%.
The Group has already been awarded the Carbon emissions sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Trust Standard for measuring, managing and reducing its global carbon Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
All of these sources fall footprint, becoming the first public transport operator to have its within businesses that are included in our consolidated financial boundaries certified outside of Europe.
A copy of the Groups statements.
sustainability strategy and further information about our initiatives and performance is available at: Group Metrics 2016 17 2015 16 http: www.
Revenue m 3,941.2 3,871.1 Part of the Groups approach to sustainability is the ongoing review of Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions its plans, performance and targets.
Policy information and annual performance data is provided on the Groups website.
Stagecoach also tonnes tCO e 1,364,776 1,427,495 2 makes an annual submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, Intensity ratio an organisation focused on carbon disclosure which collates Scope 1 & 2 emissions per of environmental information and works with thousands of companies and revenue Kg CO e 0.35 0.37 investors to tackle climate change.
2 The data below shows our greenhouse gas emissions for the year ended 29 April 2017 with comparative data for the year ended 30 April 2016. page 28 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 29 The Groups independent internal auditors review the Groups anti- 1.8.
8 Supporting our communities and the economy corruption framework at least every three years and report their Stagecoach Group is a major employer, supporting direct employment findings to the Groups Audit Committee.
Our investment in improving our transport A list of Relevant Employees is maintained, which comprises services also supports thousands of other jobs through the supply chain.
employees in those groups of staff that are considered to be most likely Further information is available at: to have the opportunity to participate in or have knowledge of material http: www.
Specific anti-bribery and anti-corruption training is provided We share our success with local people and communities by investing to these Relevant Employees, including case studies.
These employees part of our profits in good causes.
During the year ended 29 April 2017, are required to certify annually their continuing compliance with the 0.9m 2016: 0.9m was donated by Stagecoach Group to help a Groups anti-corruption policy.
number of charities and to support fundraising events and vital services.
The Group also has a number of other internal controls in place Significant additional in-kind support, such as complimentary bus and designed to minimise the risk of anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
rail travel, is provided by the Group to good causes.
We have a number of initiatives in place to help young people, including mentoring and 1.8.
11 Conclusion internship programmes to help students gain a better understanding of Our responsible approach to business is reflected in the policies and the skills and routes to enter work, further and higher education and examples set out in this section 1.8.
We continue to believe that training.
We also have partnerships with veterans groups in the UK and corporate social responsibility and good financial returns go hand in North America.
Stagecoach Group has demonstrated its commitment to hand, reflecting consideration of all stakeholders.
the UK Armed Forces by signing a corporate covenant to support the countrys military community.
More information on our community support and programmes is available at: Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: http: www.
9 Human rights The Group does not see human rights matters as presenting material issues or risks for the Group and therefore the Group does not have specific, detailed policies in respect of human rights.
However, in the Groups code of conduct see section 1.8.
1, the Group recognises the Mike Vaux fundamental civil, political, economic and social human rights and Company Secretary freedoms of every individual and strives to reflect this in its business.
A respect for human rights is reflected in our wider policies and in how we 28 June 2017 do business with customers, suppliers, employees and other stakeholders.
10 Anti-corruption and anti-bribery The Group has an anti-bribery and anti-corruption framework in place.
The Groups attitude to bribery and corruption is set by the Board of Directors and is reflected in the Groups Code of Conduct see section 1.8.
The Group does not tolerate any form of bribery or inducements for any purpose whether directly or through a third party.
Any known instance of fraud, bribery or attempted bribery that was designed to give an advantage to the Group is reported to the Groups Audit Committee for consideration and appropriate follow up.
There were no such matters arising during the year ended 29 April 2017 that were sufficiently significant to report in this Annual Report.
The Speaking Up policy provides a channel for the reporting of fraud, bribery or attempted bribery where reporting through other channels is not appropriate.
A Group Compliance Committee is in place to monitor compliance with laws and regulations and to monitor the effectiveness of the anticorruption framework, policies and procedures.
The Group Compliance Committee assesses the nature and extent of the risks relating to bribery and corruption to which the Group is exposed.
The Committee considers not only bribery and corruption risks within the Group itself but also within the Groups supply chain.
Supplier due diligence is undertaken where considered appropriate to the particular supplier.
