Nomination Committee report The search for candidates for non-executive directors during the last two 6.1 Introduction from Sir Brian Souter, years was undertaken on the basis of search specifications that set out Stagecoach Group Chairman and Chairman of the key experience, skills and attributes that had been identified by the the Nomination Committee Company.
The Nomination Committee identified Julie Southern as a The Nomination Committee has an important place in the governance potential candidate for appointment to the Board during the process, structure of the Stagecoach Group.
An effective board needs to maintain described more fully in the 2016 report from this committee, that led to balance over time, taking account of planned and unplanned changes to the appointments of James Bilefield and Karen Thomson.
We continued membership and the changing needs of the business.
As Chairman of the our discussions over the summer and were able to announce Julies Committee, I ensure that we regularly review our Board composition and appointment to the Board in October 2016. ensure that the mix of skills available is appropriate.
We are aware that Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new talented individuals can come from diverse backgrounds and aim to appointments, the expected time commitment is agreed with the promote diversity in the recommendations that we make to the Board.
I director and included in the letter of appointment.
welcome the Report into the Ethnic Diversity of UK Boards published by No director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 the Parker Review Committee.
The Stagecoach Group aims to identify and company.
break down barriers to candidates from diverse backgrounds throughout The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the business and ensure that its talent pipeline reflects the diversity of the the Groups website at: population.
com  the last year we have continued to adjust the composition of our Committee.
pdf Board and the Nomination Committee was key to managing this process.
As we announced our results last year, we proposed the appointment of Ray OToole to the Board.
His appointment was confirmed by shareholders 6.4 Board diversity at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
During the process to recruit Karen The Company believes strongly that its Board benefits from being Thomson and James Bilefield, we identified Julie Southern as a candidate comprised of talented people with a range of perspectives and from who could bring a complementary set of skills to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee reflect appointed by the Board on 7 October 2016.
Julie will stand for election by this in the criteria for identifying suitable candidates for nomination to shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
We have reviewed the performance and length of service of our executive The Company was co-founded by Ann Gloag and throughout its life as a and non-executive directors and are pleased to be able to recommend all listed company it has had at least one woman on its Board and for of the Directors for election or re-election as appropriate at the 2017 almost all of the time since May 2001, at least two.
Following the Annual General Meeting.
appointment of Julie Southern to the Board, there are currently eleven directors of the Company, of whom three are women.
Women constitute 27% of the full Board and 38% of the Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
Sir Brian Souter The Board aspires to maintain at least 25% female representation on the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Board in future.
In addition to board diversity, the Company believes in 28 June 2017 promoting diversity at all levels of the organisation, further detail of which is provided in section 1.8.
6.2 Composition of the Nomination Committee 6.5 Succession planning arrangements The composition of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of 4.9.
The Committee also invites other non-executive directors to attend succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the its meetings from time to time.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers 6.3 Operation of the Nomination Committee to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history The Nomination Committee keeps under review the overall structure, of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior size and composition of the Board, and is responsible for evaluating the positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and its programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to committees.
Where appropriate, the Committee will suggest adjustments become managing directors of individual business units, both in the UK to achieve that balance.
For a proposed appointment, the Committee will and North America.
prepare a description of the role and the attributes required of the candidates, which will include a job specification and the estimate of the The Nomination Committee aims to ensure that appropriate succession time commitment expected.
In making any appointment, the Groups arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee policy on directors having other significant commitments will be taken and the Board seek to identify new directors and senior managers to into account and potential candidates will be asked to disclose their ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
The meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report Committee believes that it is important to develop and promote existing any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The talent from within the organisation.
Committee identifies and evaluates suitable candidates and makes The Chief Executive has established a talent group involving human proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the resources, training and other professionals from within the Group.
The responsibility of the Board as a whole.
The appointments process takes talent group is taking a lead role to further enhance the recruitment, account of the benefits of diversity of the Board, including gender retention and development of talented employees throughout the diversity, and in identifying suitable candidates the Committee considers Group.
candidates from a range of backgrounds.
When seeking to appoint a new non-executive director, the Nomination Committee compiles a shortlist of potential new non-executive directors by taking account of known candidates and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
page 46 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 47 The Groups Directors bring a broad range of skills to the Board, including general management skills.
In its succession planning, the Committee considers the need to maintain and enhance this wide range of skills with particular emphasis on the following: Health and safety As is explained in section 1.8.
5, safety is at the heart of our business.
The Group has a separate Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and the Nomination Committee considers it appropriate that the Non-Executive Directors collectively have an understanding of health and safety matters.
A number of the Directors bring skills in these areas.
Transport sector The Committee considers it beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to collectively have experience of transport businesses to bring a sector-specific perspective on matters such as health and safety, transport operations, sector regulation and accounting.
Ray OToole brings considerable experience of bus, rail and the broader transport sector to the Board.
Julie Southern has considerable financial and commercial experience gained within the transport sector.
Will Whitehorn brings significant aviation and rail experience and Ann Gloag, as a co-founder of the Group, has significant public transport expertise.
Financial The Committee considers it essential that the NonExecutive Directors collectively have recent and relevant financial experience, in order for the Audit Committee to function effectively but also to bring broader financial insights to the Board.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a serving FTSE 100 finance director, Gregor Alexander brings substantial recent and relevant financial expertise.
Sir Brian Souter, Sir Ewan Brown and Julie Southern are qualified accountants, while James Bilefield has investment banking experience, bringing further financial insight to the Board.
Digital and technology In recent years, the Committee has identified the increasing importance of digital and technological opportunities and risks to the Groups strategy.
It identified a possible skills gap in this respect and considered that it would be desirable to enhance the collective experience of the Non-Executive Directors in those respects.
The appointments of James Bilefield and Karen Thomson to the Board have enhanced the Boards skills in these areas.
Listed company The Committee believes it is beneficial for the NonExecutive Directors to have collective experience of other publically listed companies to contribute in the areas of corporate governance, management of potential conflicts, investor relations and regulatory compliance.
Each of Gregor Alexander, Sir Ewan Brown, Ray OToole, Julie Southern, Karen Thomson, and Will Whitehorn serve or have served on the boards of other publically listed companies.
Regulatory The Group operates in regulated markets and the risk of regulatory change is a principal risk.
The Committee therefore values the Non-Executive Directors insight on regulatory matters.
A number of the Directors have significant skills on regulatory matters, including Ray OToole from the transport sector, Will Whitehorn from the transport sector, Gregor Alexander from the regulated energy business and Sir Ewan Brown from his experience in banking and financial services.
Given the importance of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the views of the members of the Committee.
