Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report 7.1 Introduction from Ray OToole, 7.2 Composition of the Health, Safety and Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Environmental Committee The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is summarised in section 4.9.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibilities by recommending Group policy in these areas The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental and monitoring compliance with the Group policy.
Helen Mahy stepped Committee are available on the Groups website at: down from the Board and as Chairman of this Committee on 29 February http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoach- 2016, after serving six years on the Board.
As Chairman of the Health, Group Attachments about .
pdf Safety and Environmental Committee, Helen promoted a strong culture of safety from the Board into the whole Group.
Having served on the 7.3 Operation of the Health, Safety and Committee since September 2013, our Deputy Chairman, Will Whitehorn, took over the chair from Helen Mahy in February 2016 and Environmental Committee handed over to me when I joined the Group in September 2016.
I extend The Committee considers health, safety and environmental risks, my thanks to both Helen and Will for their contributions to the mitigations and issues across the Group and reports to the Board on Committee.
As the new Chairman of the Committee, I am determined to these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall ensure that the Committee challenges the Group management team to strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and further strengthen its safety management processes over time.
also external consultants, where required.
I intend to continue involving a range of contributors from the Groups Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and businesses in the business of the Committee and ensure that the safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
Committee actively engages with those businesses to help the Group to Senior managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings evolve its health, safety and environmental strategy.
Members of the of the Committee, providing the Committee with an opportunity to Committee are encouraged to be visible to the Groups managers and question and challenge management on health, safety and staff by engaging with operating divisions through regular site visits.
As incidents occur, the Committee, aided by the Managers are invited to attend meetings of the Committee and are safety management teams, is able to analyse those incidents and learn encouraged to bring more junior members of their management teams lessons to further improve the Groups safety processes.
to engage with the Committee.
By bringing contributors together at its The Committee and its members visit operational locations to observe meetings, the Committee aims to share knowledge between the Groups health, safety and environmental management in practice.
The businesses and to challenge its business managers and safety advisers to Committee met at the Groups new Exeter bus depot in November 2016. promote sustained improvement over time.
The new facility provides greatly improved maintenance and training The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is facilities as well as incorporating new technologies to reduce the fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel environmental impact of its operations.
The Committees April 2017 and health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
meeting was held in the North America Divisions headquarters in Paramus, New Jersey, where Committee members were given the opportunity to view the Divisions fleet monitoring technology in action and were able to visit operations at the New York Port Authority.
As part of their induction, the North America management team provided the new members of the Board with the opportunity to visit a number of operational locations in the North East United States and to use the Ray OToole Groups megabus.
com services during their stay in the United States.
Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee allocates time in its agendas to receive detailed briefings 28 June 2017 on areas of specific interest or concern to it.
During the year, presentations were received on a range of topics, including suicide prevention initiatives on the railways, the North America Divisions safety culture, UK Bus carbon reduction environmental targets and updating of the Groups sustainability strategy targets, an update on the UK Bus Divisions use of the Green Road telematics system and enhancements to the UK Bus Divisions proactive maintenance procedures.
The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators across the Group as well as information on significant incidents involving the Group.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of each major operating division.
Training, where relevant, is provided to the Committee on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal objectives.
Members of the Committee review entries for the annual Stagecoach Champions Awards, which reward employees for excellence in the areas of safety, environment, community, health, customer service and innovation.
