Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 1 3 5 Martin Griffiths Sir Brian Souter Gregor Alexander Chief Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 2000 Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 2013 Age: 51 Age: 63 Age: 54 Committee membership: Health, Safety and Committee membership: Nomination Chair.
Committee membership: Audit Chair Environmental.
Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Executive responsibilities: Martin Griffiths was Accountant, Sir Brian Souter co-founded Stagecoach.
Skills and previous experience: A Chartered appointed Chief Executive from 1 May 2013.
Martin Sir Brian was named UK Master Entrepreneur of the Accountant, Gregor Alexander has significant recent Griffiths is responsible for Group health, safety and Year at the 2010 Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the and relevant financial experience.
He is the Finance environmental matters, overall strategy and Year Awards and, in 2012, became the first public Director of SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company.
He has management of all of the Groups operations.
transport entrepreneur to be inducted into the worked in the energy industry since 1990, when he British Travel and Hospitality Industry Hall of Fame.
He was appointed Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Sir Brian is the architect of the Groups strategy and Finance Director and joined the Board of SSE in 2002, Accountant, Martin Griffiths joined Stagecoach in philosophy and was the Groups Chief Executive until having previously been its Group Treasurer and Tax 1997 as Group Business Development Manager, 1 May 2013.
He has extensive knowledge of the Manager.
before being appointed to the Board as Finance ground transportation industry around the world External appointments: Finance Director of SSE plc.
He has also served as the and continues to support Martin Griffiths and the Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks, a company 33.3% senior independent non-executive director of Robert rest of the management team.
Sir Brian has owned by SSE plc.
Walters plc and as a non-executive director of Troy responsibility for the running of the Board.
He was young Scottish Finance Director of the year in 2004.
External appointments: Chairman, Souter 6 Investments.
President of the Institute of Chartered External appointments: Virgin Rail Group Holdings James Bilefield Accountants of Scotland.
Limited Co-Chairman, AG Barr plc Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director, Rail Delivery Group Limited Non-Executive Director.
Appointment to the Board: 2016 4 Will Whitehorn Age: 48 2 Deputy Chairman and Senior Ross Paterson Committee membership: Digital and Technology Chair, Remuneration and Nomination.
Independent Non-Executive Director Finance Director Skills and previous experience: James Bilefield has Appointment to the Board: 2011 Appointment to the Board: 2013 an international track record of successfully leading Age: 57 growing digital businesses.
He managed the digital Age: 45 transformation of media group, Cond Nast, across Committee membership: Nomination.
Committee membership: Pensions Oversight, Digital 27 countries, scaled Skypes global operations as part and Technology.
Skills and previous experience: Will Whitehorn of its founding management team and held senior joined the Virgin Group in 1987 and served as Group Executive responsibilities: Ross Paterson is commercial and management roles at Yahoo!.
Public Relations manager and as Brand Development responsible for the Groups overall financial policy, Formerly CEO of global advertising technology and Corporate Affairs Director, before being taxation, treasury, corporate finance, City relations, company, OpenX, he also co-founded the local appointed as President of Virgin Galactic from 2007 financial reporting, information technology and information business, UpMyStreet, following an to 2011.
Will is a former non-executive Chairman of employee benefits.
He supports the Chief Executive investment banking career at JP Morgan Chase.
Next Fifteen Communications Group plc and of in the management of the Groups operations and External appointments: McKinsey & Company Crowd Reactive Limited.
He was a member of the new business development.
Senior Advisor, Advent International Industry Science & Technology Facilities Council STFC until Skills and previous experience: A Chartered Advisor, UK Government Digital Service Advisory 2012, chaired its Economic Impact Advisory Board Accountant, Ross Paterson joined Stagecoach in Board Member, Teach First Trustee.
and was a non-executive director of STFC 1999.
He became Director of Finance & Company Innovations Limited.
Secretary in 2007, with responsibility for treasury, corporate finance, City relations, financial reporting, External appointments: Scottish Event Campus internal audit and the company secretariat.
He Limited Chairman, GVC Holdings plc Senior succeeded Martin Griffiths as Finance Director in Independent Director and Purplebricks Group plc 2013.
He is former Deputy Convenor of the Audit and Non-Executive Director.
Member of the First Assurance Committee of the Institute of Chartered Minister of Scotlands GlobalScot Business Accountants of Scotland.
Vice-President of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Scottish Gallery External appointments: Director and Chairman of Aitken Dott Limited Chairman.
Audit Committee, Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited.
Member of the Business Policy Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
page 30| Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Bits V13.
indd 2 06 07 2017 17:17 7 8 9 10 11 7 9 11 Sir Ewan Brown CBE Ray OToole Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: 1988 Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2016 Appointment to the Board: 2016 Age: 75 Age: 61 Age: 55 Committee membership: Pensions Oversight Chair Committee membership: Health Safety and Committee membership: Audit, Health, Safety and Nomination.
Environmental Chair, Audit and Nomination.
and Environmental, Digital and Technology.
Skills and previous experience: Sir Ewan Brown Skills and previous experience: Ray served as the Skills and previous experience: Karen served as served as an executive director of Noble Grossart for Chief Operating Officer of National Express Group Chief Executive of AOL UK and President of AOL 35 years and continues to serve as a non-executive until May 2010.
In November 2013 Ray joined Kier Europe, developing both the telecoms and director of Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd. Sir Ewan was Group, Fleet and Passenger Services as Managing advertising lines of the business.
As a member of the Chairman of Lloyds TSB Scotland from 1999 to 2008.
In July 2015 he led a management buy-out Vodafone UK Board, Karen had responsibility for He has also served as a non-executive director of team with private equity investor, Endless LLP, to developing online strategy, customer experience and Wood Group and Lloyds Banking Group, chairing the create Essential Fleet Services Limited, a company online sales performance.
Karen was a non-executive Audit Committee and the Group Pension Funds, and which provides 3,500 vehicles with contract hire and director of UBM plc from 2006 to 2014 and served as Chairman of Creative Scotland 2009 and Scottish leasing to the local authority and corporate markets on its Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Financial Enterprise.
Ray served as Chief Executive of Essential committees.
Fleet Services Limited until February 2017.
External appointments: Noble Grossart Holdings Ltd External appointments: Outplay Entertainment Non-Executive Director.
External appointments: Yorkshire Water Services Limited Chairman.
8 Ann Gloag OBE 10 Julie Southern Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board: n a co-founder Appointment to the Board: 7 October 2016 Age: 74 Age: 57 Committee membership: Health, Safety Committee membership: Remuneration Chair, and Environmental.
Audit Skills and previous experience: Ann Gloag Skills and previous experience: Julie is a chartered co-founded Stagecoach and served as an executive accountant and has considerable experience in director until 2000.
She has extensive experience in senior finance and management roles, including in transport operations, health and safety matters, the transport sector.
She served as Chief Financial property management and wider business Officer with Virgin Atlantic from 2000 to 2010 and management.
then as the companys Chief Commercial Officer External appointments: Mercy Ships International from 2010 to 2013.
Previously Group Finance Board Member.
Director at Porsche Cars Great Britain and former Finance and Operations Director at HJ Chapman & Co.
External appointments: Rentokil Initial plc Non-Executive Director, DFS Furniture plc Non-Executive Director, Cineworld Group plc Non-Executive Director, NXP Semi-Conductors N. V. Non-Executive Director Stagecoach Group plc |page 31 145376 STC Bits V13.
