Corporate governance report I am confident that the corporate governance structure of the Board 4.1 Introduction from Will Whitehorn, provides an appropriate forum to develop and adapt the Groups Deputy Chairman strategy to address future challenges and opportunities.
The Stagecoach Group is committed to operating with the high standards of corporate governance that are expected of a group with shares traded on the London Stock Exchange.
In this introduction to the Groups corporate governance report I look back at the year 2016 17, at the progress that has been made with the governance of the Group and look forward to the governance challenges for the future.
As the Deputy Chairman, it is my responsibility to promote the highest Will Whitehorn standards of corporate governance throughout the Group and Deputy Chairman particularly at Board level.
This report sets out the governance 28 June 2017 structure in place for the Group, which I believe is both robust and appropriate for the Groups operations.
4.2 Corporate governance and compliance The composition of the Board has continued to evolve over the year.
with the Code Ray OTooles appointment to the Board was approved by shareholders The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups at the 2016 Annual General Meeting and he joined the Board on activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate 1 September 2016.
Julie Southern joined as an additional non-executive governance practices within the Group.
This section 4 of the Annual director on 7 October 2016.
Report sets out Stagecoach Groups corporate governance Martin Griffiths and Ross Paterson continue in their roles as Chief arrangements.
Taken together with the Directors report, it includes the Executive and Finance Director respectively.
As we have adjusted the disclosures recommended by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Board composition over the last two financial years we have appointed UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, and describes how the new non-executive directors who bring substantial experience in areas principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the Code identified as important in the future strategy of the Group.
The Groups have been applied.
In line with the recommendations of the Code and Chairman, Sir Brian Souter, is responsible for the conduct of the Board best practice, separate reports are provided from each of the Audit, as a whole.
Nomination, Health, Safety and Environmental and Remuneration Our Board structure comprises experienced executive directors Committees.
managing the business, non-executive directors with the skills and The Code issued in September 2014 applied to the Companys financial experience both to bring new ideas to the Board and to challenge the year from 1 May 2016 to 29 April 2017.
The Directors believe that executive directors, and our founder and former Chief Executive throughout the year ended 29 April 2017 the Group complied with all continuing as non-executive Chairman.
This structure allows the Board of the provisions of the Code.
A copy of the Code is available at: to develop the strategic direction of the Group to meet future https: www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporatechallenges while ensuring the sound management of the Groups Governance .
I am satisfied that the governance structure allows the views of all of the Directors to be heard and given due weight and In the period from Garry Watts leaving the Board on 31 July 2016 to that our corporate governance procedures are appropriate for the the appointment of Ray OToole to the Nomination Committee on Group.
1 October 2016, the Nomination Committee comprised Sir Brian Souter, James Bilefield, Sir Ewan Brown and Will Whitehorn.
Code The Board focuses on the Groups strategy and seeks to understand the provision B.
2.1 recommends that a majority of members of the risks to the Group and the markets that it operates in.
We aim to nomination committee should be independent non-executive directors.
achieve appropriate returns for our shareholders, balanced against an The Company considers Sir Ewan Brown to be independent and appropriate level of risk.
We look ahead to where we believe considers that during this period the composition of the Nomination opportunities are going to arise and to anticipate and address the Committee complied with the Code.
However, as noted at section 4.5 challenges that the business faces.
I believe that good governance is of this Annual Report, some investors consider that Sir Ewan Brown central to achieving these aims for the business as a whole and to may not be considered to be independent.
While the Company ensure that our management team is properly challenged to meet the considers that it fully complied with the provisions of the Code Groups objectives.
throughout the financial year, if Sir Ewan Brown is considered not to be In the past year, the Board has continued to discuss franchise independent, the composition of the Nomination Committee in the two opportunities available in the rail sector, submitting a bid albeit, month period between Garry Watts leaving the Board and Ray OToole ultimately unsuccessful for the new South Western franchise.
The joining the Nomination Committee did not comply with Code provision Board has continued to review the balance of the Group between its B.
The Board recognises and has discussed in The Group also complies with the corporate governance requirements some detail the risks to the business in the changing political landscape of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, and Disclosure and and the Group has engaged constructively with a range of stakeholders Transparency Rules.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule The Board has continued to discuss how new technology can enhance 7.2.
6 requires the corporate governance statement to the passenger experience and attract more passengers to our services.
contain certain information required by Schedule 7 to the Large and The Board has drawn on the experience of the non-executive members Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports of the Board to develop the Groups digital and technology strategies, Regulations 2008 SI 2008 410.
This information relates to significant looking at how new technologies can support our current business interests in the securities of the Company, securities carrying special model and open up new ways to provide services to the public, and to rights with regard to the control of the Company, restrictions on voting ensure that the Group is able to play a part in emerging transport rights, rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors, solutions.
Following the launch of the enhanced stagecoachbus.
com rules regarding changes to the Companys Articles of Association and website, the UK Bus division launched the Stagecoach Bus App, the Directors powers in relation to the issuing or buying back by the available through the AppStore and Google Play, providing journey Company of its shares.
The relevant information can be found in planning and real-time bus information to passengers in a mobilesections 3.4 and 3.9 of this Annual Report.
friendly form, along with a greater range of ways to pay for tickets on line and to carry tickets on mobile devices.
page 36 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 37 Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an independent 4.3 Composition of the Board viewpoint and create an overall balance.
The Directors have a The composition of the Board is as follows: complementary range of experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the decision-making process.
Date of Independent appointment NonThe Code recommends that independent non-executive directors should if later than Executive Other make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
Throughout 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director the year from 1 May 2016 to 29 April 2017, the Board considers that it complied with this Code requirement.
The current position is that seven Sir Brian Souter Chairman 3 out of the ten Board members excluding the Chairman are considered by the Board to be independent.
In determining the independence of nonGregor Alexander Non-Executive Director 3 executive directors, the Board considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the following questions: James Bilefield Non-Executive Director 3 Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive management?
Sir Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director 3 Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and Ray OToole viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Non-Executive Director 3 Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the Julie Southern Board and its Committees?
Non-Executive Director 3 Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints Karen Thomson for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
Non-Executive Director 3 Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of Will Whitehorn the Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question Senior Independent Director strategy and executive managements running of the business?
& Deputy Chairman 3 Sir Ewan Brown, one of the seven independent Non-Executive Directors, Ann Gloag has served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive director of Non-Executive Director 3 Noble Grossart, which has from time to time provided advice to the Martin Griffiths Company.
The Company recognises and understands investor concerns Chief Executive 3 over longer-serving non-executive directors but continues to regard Sir Ross Paterson Ewan Brown as independent.
Sir Ewan Browns long association with the Finance Director 3 Group and the sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed enables him to provide a robust and effective challenge The Board comprises eleven directors, seven of whom are considered to to management.
The Board believes that Sir Ewan Browns length of be independent by the Board and six of whom meet the criteria suggested service enhances his effectiveness as a non-executive director and that he by the Code for determining director independence.
remains independent in character and judgement.
Seven of the ten members of the Board excluding the Chairman are considered by the 4.4 Division of responsibilities Board to be independent.
If Sir Ewan Brown was not treated as Sir Brian Souter was the Chief Executive of the Group until 1 May 2013. independent, the balance of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors When Sir Brian became the Chairman of the Group and Martin Griffiths complies with the recommendations of the Code.
became Chief Executive, the Board created the new role of Deputy In recognition of the factors suggested by the Code for determining Chairman to maintain the strength of its governance arrangements.
The independence, Sir Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration split of the Chairmans, Deputy Chairmans and Chief Executives Committee or the Audit Committee.
responsibilities has been agreed in writing and has been approved by the All of the Directors stand for election or re-election at each annual general Board.
The Deputy Chairman reports to the Chairman and to the Board meeting of the Company.
and has responsibility for ensuring proper corporate governance.
The Deputy Chairmans role includes ensuring that the Boards consideration of matters is in the best interests of the Group and unaffected by conflicts 4.6 Operation of the Board of interest.
No executives report directly to the Deputy Chairman.
The Board generally meets six times each year.
Additional meetings of the The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Board and for ensuring Board are held, or resolutions are circulated in writing, as appropriate, to that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the consider matters where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its commercial objectives.
The Deputy Chairman is responsible for ensuring Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact that the Board determines the Groups strategy and overall commercial with each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
objectives with the overall success of the Group in mind and to provide The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors periodically meet without guidance in this regard to the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, the Non-Executive for proposing and developing that strategy with support and guidance Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman, meet without the Chairman at least from the Chairman.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the running of annually.
the Groups business and reports to the Chairman and to the Board All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of directly.
All other members of the executive management team report the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary either directly or indirectly to the Chief Executive.
and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups Will Whitehorn, as well as being Deputy Chairman, is the Groups Senior expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and concerns which contact through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance removal is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
ensuring the Board procedures are complied with.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently 4.5 Board independence and balance such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
The Chairman reviews The Directors biographies appear in section 2 of this Annual Report and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective the Directors training and development needs in conjunction with the Board to lead and control the Group.
The Board delegates the operational Company Secretary.
Training can encompass health, safety, environmental, management of the Group to the Chief Executive and Finance Director social and governance matters.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 37 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 38 Corporate governance report The number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board Each division comprises a number of autonomous business units, each typically meets at least once a year at an operational location.
Regular headed by a chairman or managing director who is responsible for the communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman or managing between meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic director is supported by his or her own management teams.
The Board met in Chester, New York in April 2017, One of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail giving the Board the opportunity to inspect the facilities at the Groups Group, is managed independently of the Group.
It is headed by its own operations in the city and to meet the local management team.
The Group has two representatives on the Board of opportunity was taken to allow the new members of the Board to meet Virgin Rail Group.
The other trading joint venture in which the Group has the local management teams in a number of operational locations in North an interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
The Group East US and for the members of the Health Safety and Environmental is responsible for the day-to-day management of that business.
Committee to visit the operation control centre for the North America Division in Paramus, New Jersey.
During the year, the Health, Safety and 4.8 Performance evaluation Environmental Committee also visited the UK Bus Divisions newly developed depot in Exeter and was briefed on the opportunities offered by The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each the new facilities and the environmental initiatives being undertaken at individual Board member: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed that site and more broadly across the Division.
by the Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Boards The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with assessment of the performance of the Chairman is co-ordinated by the principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment Deputy Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the Non-Executive policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Nonrisk management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with performance of the Board and other Board members.
The Deputy Board papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the Board considered during the year ended 29 April 2017 included: performance of the Chairman.
A questionnaire-based process is undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards Rail franchise bids including the submission of a bid for the new South committees.
Western rail franchise The Code recommends board performance evaluation should be Sale of European retail megabus.
com business to Flixbus externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Board appointed UK Rail industry trading conditions, industrial action affecting the Margaret Exley of SCT Consultants to facilitate its evaluation in the year network and challenges at Virgin Trains East Coast.
The evaluation was carried out between January Board succession planning and appointment of new non-executive and April 2017, based on interviews, questionnaires, observation and directors document review.
The evaluation found that the Board had been Changes arising from the Bus Services Act strengthened by introducing four new members.
The report particularly Opportunities and challenges arising from new technologies in the noted the additional experience on the Board in the areas of technology, transport sector digitalisation, the transport industry and marketing.
The evaluation noted a focused, inclusive and open atmosphere to Board meetings with good Information security controls challenge between executive and non-executive directors.
Agendas were UK Rail franchise bid process and long-term outlook found to reflect the important issues and decision making was effective Developments in digital technology, including launch of UK Bus app and and followed through.
The Board has begun to implement the roll out of contactless payment technologies recommendations from the report, including scheduling detailed Adjustments to rail and bus service offerings in response to increased discussions of business risks and business and talent strategies outside car and air competition resulting from sustained low fuel prices the Board meeting cycle and arranging time for more informal Appointment of joint broker discussions between the Board members.
Suggested adjustments to the forward agenda, including giving Board members more opportunity to The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under visit operational locations, will be implemented over the remainder of review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to the 2017 18 financial year.
The Board intends to continue to use external improve the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every and better control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to three years.
The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
concluded that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about in an effective and constructive manner.
the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the 4.9 Composition of Committees Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
The current composition of the various Board Committees is summarised below.
4.7 Operational management of the Group Audit Committee The Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly Number of members of Committee: 4 face-to-face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
All members are independent non-executive directors.
There are four principal operating divisions: Chairman and designated member with recent UK Bus London : headed by a managing director and relevant financial experience UK Bus regional operations : headed by two managing directors Gregor Alexander North America: headed by a chief operating officer Other members UK Rail: headed by a managing director Ray OToole Although the megabus Europe business is reported as a separate segment Julie Southern for financial reporting purposes, it was managed as part of the UK Bus Karen Thomson regional operations operating division.
page 38 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 39 Nomination Committee Health, Safety PARTICIPATION and Environmental Nomination Annual General Number of members of Committee: 5 IN MEETINGS Committee Committee Meeting Chairman Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Sir Brian Souter Sir Brian Souter n a n a 1 1 1 1 Other members Martin Griffiths 4 4 n a n a 1 1 James Bilefield Gregor Alexander n a n a n a n a 1 1 Sir Ewan Brown Ray OToole James Bilefield n a n a 1 1 1 1 Will Whitehorn Sir Ewan Brown n a n a 1 1 1 1 Remuneration Committee Ann Gloag 2 4 n a n a 1 1 Number of members of Committee: 3 Ray OToole 3 3 n a n a n a n a All members are independent non-executive directors.
Ross Paterson n a n a n a n a 1 1 Chairman Julie Southern n a n a n a n a n a n a Julie Southern Karen Thomson 4 4 n a n a 1 1 Other members Garry Watts n a n a 1 1 n a n a Gregor Alexander Will Whitehorn 1 1 1 1 1 1 James Bilefield Health, Safety and Environmental Committee 4.11 Relations with shareholders Number of members of Committee: 4 The Board endeavours to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects in communications Chairman with shareholders.
The Group has periodic meetings and or telephone Ray OToole calls with representatives of major institutional shareholders, other fund Other members managers and representatives of the financial media.
Martin Griffiths The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the full-year and interim results and meetings calls with institutional Ann Gloag investors.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations to Karen Thomson ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The 4.10 Individual director participation at Annual Report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
meetings The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings briefings from the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Executive of committees and the Annual General Meeting by directors during the Directors, reports from the Companys brokers and reports from the year ended 29 April 2017: Companys Financial PR consultants.
All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration General Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee ensure that all the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible to answer questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to question the Chairman and other Sir Brian Souter 6 6 n a n a n a n a directors on a variety of topics and further information is provided at the Martin Griffiths 6 6 n a n a n a n a Annual General Meeting on the Groups principal business activities.
It is Gregor Alexander 6 6 3 3 3 3 the Companys policy to propose a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
All resolutions James Bilefield 6 6 n a n a 3 3 proposed to the 2016 Annual General Meeting were decided by a poll as Sir Ewan Brown 6 6 n a n a n a n a opposed to a show of hands and details of all votes lodged for and against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution of the 2016 Annual Ann Gloag 6 6 n a n a n a n a General Meeting were published on the Groups website at: Ray OToole 4 4 2 2 n a n a http: www.
aspx Ross Paterson 6 6 n a n a n a n a The Group intends to undertake a poll on each resolution put to the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
All votes cast for or against each Julie Southern 3 4 2 2 2 2 resolution, whether by proxy or in person at the meeting, will be Karen Thomson 6 6 3 3 n a n a aggregated and the results will be reported on the Groups website.
Garry Watts 1 1 n a n a 1 1 The Company and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
Will Whitehorn 5 6 1 1 n a n a 4.12 Risk management The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a sound risk culture throughout the Group such that risks are identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
Further details are provided in the sections that follow about the Boards appetite for risk and the Groups risk management process.
4.12.1 Risk appetite The Board considers that it is in the interests of the Groups stakeholders for the Group to evaluate and accept risk.
Delivering the Groups strategy and objectives necessitates some risk taking.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 39 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 40 Corporate governance report It is the Groups objective that the risk of it not remaining viable for the The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal foreseeable future should be low.
Its appetite for risk reflects that overall control and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains objective.
Consistent with that risk appetite: ultimate responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these processes remain rooted throughout the business and the Safety is at the heart of the Groups business as explained in section managing director of each operating unit is responsible for the internal 1.8.
Health and safety risks are carefully control framework within that unit.
assessed and the Group avoids activities where health and safety risks cannot be managed to an acceptable level.
Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division It is the Groups intention to remain focused on the public transport maintaining a separate risk profile.
sector and goods and services related to that.
The Group does not currently have plans to expand into businesses unrelated to public The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function reports to the Audit transport.
Before entering a new country, the Group carefully evaluates Committee and is utilised in monitoring risk management processes to the risks of doing so.
determine whether internal controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
In conjunction with the tender for the provision of external The Group recognises the different risk profiles of each of its businesses audit services for the Group that resulted in the appointment of Ernst & and in particular, recognises that profits and cash flows from UK rail Young as the Companys auditors for the financial year ending 29 April businesses are generally less predictable than those from the Groups 2017, the Audit Committee oversaw a tender for the provision of internal bus businesses.
As a result, the Board considers there to be an audit services to the Group.
As a result of that tender process, the Group acceptable limit to the size of the UK rail business relative to the other appointed  to manage the Group Risk Assurance businesses of the Group.
Function in place of Deloitte with effect from September 2016.
The Group seeks to minimise as far as practical the risk of breaches of A risk-based approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of laws and regulations and applies a zero tolerance approach to employee controls.
The monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the breaches of legal and regulatory requirements, its own Code of Conduct integrity and improving, where possible, the Groups risk management see section 5.4.
5 of this Annual Report, its delegated authority levels process in the context of the Groups overall goals.
and its other internal policies including in respect of health and safety, anti-corruption and share dealing.
The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are It is the Groups objective to maintain an investment grade credit rating recommended by the external auditors.
The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint The Board has set a minimum level of undrawn, committed credit lines ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business that the Group should aim to maintain at all times and which should be risk management processes through representation on the boards and in available for borrowings.
the case of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
Stagecoach Stress testing and reverse stress testing are undertaken in respect of management representatives also meet regularly with representatives of major investment proposals, major contract bids including rail franchise joint ventures to ensure that they follow appropriate risk management bids and generally as part of the Boards assessment of the Groups procedures.
The Groups risk appetite and related objectives are reflected in the 4.12.3 Principal risks and uncertainties objectives that the Remuneration Committee sets for the Executive The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing Directors.
For example, one of the Chief Executives current objectives the Group, including those risks that would threaten the Groups business relates to health and safety, while one of the Finance Directors current model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In making that objectives relates to the Groups investment grade credit ratings and their assessment, the Board considered the likelihood of each risk materialising remuneration is partly linked to the achievement of those objectives.
in the short-term and the longer term.
In assessing the longer term viability of the Group see sections 3.11 and 5.5 of this Annual Report for further 4.12.2 Risk management process information on the Groups viability, the Board has considered the The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principal risks.
the principal risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are summarised in The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part section 1.4.
5 of this Annual Report and that section includes an of business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in explanation of how we aim to appropriately manage and mitigate those some cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to risks.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, 4.13 Internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is designed to provide the Directors with The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, reasonable assurance that any significant risks or problems are identified enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Group has established of the system of risk management and internal control of the Group during an ongoing process of risk review and certification by the business heads of the year.
The key procedures, which the Directors have established, are as each operating unit.
follows: Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
Each an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, identified business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its identifying key risks and opportunities.
The overall Group annual budget potential severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers is approved by the Board.
whether it is appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income controlled or mitigated by the Group.
statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
For those businesses that have been part of the Group for the whole of the Group management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
financial year ended 29 April 2017, the Groups risk management process a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and was embedded throughout the businesses for that year and up to the date business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
of the approval of this report.
third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk where significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and management and internal control environment and such reviews are safety, treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are appropriately managed.
page 40 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 41 a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient business unit to the management accounts received during the year and operations.
obtains explanations for any material differences.
joint control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each representation on the boards of the entities together with regular business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various contact between Stagecoach management and the management of the levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for senior management based on agreed financial and other performance preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
internal consistency, consistency with other statements and arithmetical accuracy.
significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated four-weekly basis.
The Audit Committee receives reports from management and the external auditors on significant judgements, reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and including updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury other pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial management, foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
Board regulates treasury management policies and procedures.
The financial statements of all material business units are subject to defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, external audit including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being acquired or divested.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures ventures that are audited by a different firm of auditors.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the management of each business confirming that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the 4.15 Pension schemes year.
The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of and which is subject to regular monitoring.
There are twelve trustees for the principal an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy with training and compliance UK scheme, three of which are employee representatives nominated by monitoring.
the members on a regional basis and three are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the principal UK scheme is a professional Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and trustee who served for eight years as a fund member elected addressed in the normal course of business.
No control failings or representative on the National Association of Pension Funds investment weaknesses that are significant to the Group as a whole have been council, and is a past Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme identified in the year to 29 April 2017. trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group and UK Bus executives.
4.14 Process for preparing consolidated A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
financial statements This Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Sir Ewan Brown, The Group has established internal control and risk management systems and also comprises one executive director and other members of senior in relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit The key features of these internal control and risk management systems covers all matters affecting the Groups pension schemes from the are: perspective of the Groups shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks consider, develop and propose recommendations to the Board in respect on internal financial controls periodically.
of such issues as may arise.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, risk management and internal controls Management regularly monitors and considers developments in surrounding pension matters accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key By order of the Board finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such developments.
Any recommendations from the auditors, the Financial Reporting Council and others in respect of financial reporting are assessed with a view to continuous improvement in the quality of the Groups financial statements.
Mike Vaux A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each Company Secretary business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been 28 June 2017 reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
