Directors remuneration report In this section of the Annual Report there are three separate sections iii We propose to continue with two performance criteria for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Under the current policy, the dealing with the Directors remuneration report as follows: criteria are based on measures of Total Shareholder Return the annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman: TSR and Earnings Per Share EPS.
Under the new policy, we the remuneration policy: and propose that the criteria will be based on measures of TSR and the annual report on remuneration implementation.
profitability, giving the Committee more discretion to set a measure of EPS or any other appropriate measure of profitability 8.1 A statement to shareholders from the in respect of any new LTIP award.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee iv We propose to introduce claw-back provisions in respect of performance related pay.
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 29 April 2017.
I joined the Activities of the Remuneration Committee Stagecoach Board in October 2016 and assumed the chairmanship of the The main tasks and decisions of the Committee during the year ended Remuneration Committee at that time.
I would like to thank my 29 April 2017 were: predecessor, Garry Watts, for his chairmanship of the Committee.
I am pleased that Gregor Alexander and James Bilefield remain members of Drafted the proposed new remuneration policy and consulted with the Committee, bringing their own insights but also continuity to the major shareholders on the policy.
Committee as a balance to my fresh perspective.
The Committees main Reviewed the performance and approved the Executive Directors focus this year has been the review of the Directors remuneration policy bonuses for the year ended 30 April 2016. and it provided a good opportunity to look at the policy with a fresh pair Set annual performance targets for the Executive Directors bonuses of eyes, taking into account the feedback that we have had from for the year ended 29 April 2017. shareholders and investor representative bodies.
We hope that our new Reviewed performance of the 2013 awards under the LTIP, in June policy will be well supported.
Remuneration policy Reviewed and approved targets for LTIP awards made in the year ended 29 April 2017.
Included within this report is our proposed revised Directors remuneration policy the Policy.
The current Directors remuneration policy was Reviewed and approved the vesting of Deferred Shares under the 2013 EPP award in June 2016. approved by shareholders in 2014 and, under the applicable legislation, we are now required to again seek shareholders approval for a remuneration Decided on levels of pay and benefit increases in the annual salary policy.
The Policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at our review for the Executive Directors and made recommendations to next Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 August 2017. the Board in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
Our remuneration policies are designed with the long-term success of the Company in mind.
We believe our remuneration arrangements Reviewed the remuneration for senior non-Board managers.
should provide a clear alignment between the long-term interests of our Remuneration for 2016 17 shareholders and the corporate strategy to be implemented by the As explained earlier in the Annual Report, we achieved our recent executive management.
We also consider it is important that the expectation of adjusted earnings per share for the year ended 29 April components of remuneration are easily understood and that overall 2017.
Although the continuing trading challenges faced by our remuneration is not excessive.
Feedback received from our major businesses are reflected in the financial results for the year, we continue shareholders has indicated that they have appreciated the straight to manage the business with its long-term success in mind.
That forward and clear components of remuneration set out in the 2014 approach is reflected in the further investment that was made in the policy and the Committee wishes to ensure the new policy retains that business during the year.
As a Committee, we try to maintain clarity.
We have consulted with investor representative bodies and our remuneration arrangements that balance meeting short-term financial major shareholders in the development of the revised policy, and have objectives with supporting the Groups long-term success.
Certain of the also given consideration to the corporate governance policies and best non-financial, personal objectives that we set for the Executive Directors practice guidelines of investor representative bodies.
have the long-term in mind and can be achieved or not irrespective of The principles applied in our approach to executive pay have remained whether short-term financial targets are achieved.
The Committee has taken the opportunity over the last year Consolidated profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group to undertake a review of our remuneration arrangements with the aim of companies and consolidated adjusted earnings per share EPS fell ensuring that pay reinforces the Companys strategy, whilst continuing to short of the demanding targets that we set for the year, reflecting the motivate and retain executive talent.
The target for consolidated net debt, The main changes in policy that are proposed are as follows: however, was met.
Accordingly, of the 70% of basic salary that the i The amount of the annual bonuses payable to the Executive Executive Directors could have earned as an annual bonus based on Directors is partly determined with reference to certain measures financial performance, 23.3% of basic salary is payable for the year, being of the Groups financial performance.
Under the current one-third of the potential opportunity.
remuneration policy, all of the potential bonus amount relating to The Committee determined that Martin Griffiths achieved four out of the a particular financial measure is payable if the target is achieved five personal, non-financial objectives that we set for him for the year.
while none of the potential bonus is payable if the target is not That entitles him to a bonus amount of 24% of basic salary from a achieved.
We are proposing to replace this cliff edge or all or potential 30%.
The Committee determined that Ross Paterson achieved nothing approach with a performance range whereby the three of the four personal, non-financial objectives that we set for him amount of the bonus payable in respect of a particular financial for the year.
That entitles him to a bonus amount of 22.5% of basic target is determined based on the financial performance achieved salary from a potential 30%.
relative to the target set.
The Committee remains focused on ensuring that there is a clear linkage ii To ensure that the Committee has sufficient flexibility to set between pay and performance and that there is a strong alignment of challenging financial targets for annual bonuses under the interests of managers, shareholders and other major stakeholders proposed new arrangements described above, we are proposing through an appropriate mixture of pay, incentives and the use of that the Committee will have the discretion to set the amount of shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors.
the potential bonus that can be earned in respect of financial We are grateful for the work undertaken by the Group and our performance at between 70% and 120% of the annual basic salary remuneration advisers and for the support we have received from our of the relevant Executive Director.
Under the current policy, the major shareholders and investor representative bodies.
We continue to potential bonus that can be earned in respect of financial value shareholders views on our remuneration arrangements and I can performance is fixed at 70% of annual basic salary.
The overall be contacted via the Company Secretary should any shareholder wish to annual bonus potential for an executive director would be meet with me.
determined by the Committee around the start of the each year, At the Groups Annual General Meeting on 25 August 2017, shareholders taking account of the financial and non-financial objectives and it is proposed to be between 100% and 150% of basic salary.
will be invited to approve: Stagecoach Group plc | page 49 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 50 Directors remuneration report i the Directors remuneration policy in a binding vote: and The proposed, revised Policy is broadly consistent with our existing policy.
Key areas of difference between the revised and existing policies ii this statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration together are as follows: in an advisory vote.
the introduction of claw-back provisions: It is my hope that all of our shareholders, whether they are large institutional shareholders or individual shareholders, will find value in the replacement of cliff edge targets by sliding scale targets for the this report.
financial measures in the annual bonus and providing the Remuneration Committee with flexibility to increase the maximum potential bonus potential to 150% of basic salary: and continue to use two performance criteria for the Long Term Incentive Plan, and continuing with total shareholder return but Julie Southern instead of using EPS, the Remuneration Committee may use EPS or Chairman of the Remuneration Committee any other appropriate measure of profitability, as determined prior 28 June 2017 to the grant of any new award.
The details of the proposed changes are reflected in the annual 8.2 Compliance statement statement and the policy table.
This Directors remuneration report covers the year from 1 May 2016 to 29 April 2017 and provides details of the Remuneration Committees role and the remuneration policy we apply in decisions on executive 8.4.
1 Key principles of the remuneration policy remuneration.
In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive This report has been prepared in accordance with the Large & MediumDirectors, the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment packages of terms and conditions that are competitive in the UK and Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations.
In accordance with Sections will attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of 439 and 439A of the Companies Act 2006, an advisory ordinary achieving the Groups objectives and to ensure that they are fairly resolution to approve the statement by the Chairman of the rewarded for their individual responsibilities and contributions to the Remuneration Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration and a Groups overall performance.
binding ordinary resolution to approve the Directors remuneration The Committee believes that remuneration packages for the Executive policy will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Directors should contain meaningful and effective performance-related Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be elements, and that the performance-related elements should be designed made to directors if they are consistent with the approved Directors' to align the interests of the Executive Directors and other senior remuneration policy or otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the managers with the interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee is able to consider all relevant factors Those sections in the remuneration report that have been audited have when setting the Executive Directors remuneration, including been highlighted as such.
The other sections of the remuneration report environmental, social and governance matters.
Performance targets are are not subject to audit.
established to achieve consistency with the interests of shareholders, with an appropriate balance between short-term and long-term targets.
8.3 Remuneration Committee Performance targets include financial measures as well as non-financial The Committees principal function is to determine Stagecoach Groups targets, such as environmental and safety objectives.
The incentive policy on executive remuneration and to approve specific remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors are structured so as not to packages and service contracts for the Groups Executive Directors and unduly increase environmental, social and governance risks by such senior members of the executive management as it is asked by the inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee also has responsibility for making The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the existing recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration of the remuneration of the Executive Directors, making comparisons with peer Chairman and Deputy Chairman.
companies of similar size and complexity and with other companies in the The terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at: public transport industry.
Proposals for the forthcoming year are then http: www.
com  in the light of the prospects for the Group as a whole.
pdf Remuneration Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels of other senior executives employed by the Group.
The approach is 8.4 Directors remuneration policy consistent with that applied for the workforce in that we look to pay This section of the report sets out Stagecoach Groups proposed revised competitively with reference to the market rate for a job.
With regard to Directors remuneration policy the Policy.
The Policy is subject to a pensions, the Remuneration Committee has access to reports from binding shareholder vote at the Companys AGM on 25 August 2017, and pension scheme trustees and scheme actuaries regarding the cost of subject to approval, will apply from that date.
The current remuneration pension obligations.
policy approved on 29 August 2014, can be found in the 2014 Annual We also consult our major shareholders in developing remuneration policy.
Report, available on the Companys website at: http: www.
pdf and will continue to apply until a new policy is approved.
2Remuneration policy table for the Executive Directors This section of our report sets out in tabular form key components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.
2.1Fixed elements of pay BASICSALARY Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value To attract, retain and motivate executives ensuring basic salaries are Basic salary increases are applied in line with the outcome of the competitive in the market.
An executive directors annual basic salary may not exceed 850,000.
Operation The Committee would only set a salary which exceeded the top Basic salaries are generally reviewed as at 1 May each year but the quartile of salaries applicable in FTSE 250 companies in unforeseen Remuneration Committee also has discretion to adjust them at other and exceptional circumstances.
Account is taken of changes in individual responsibilities that may have occurred and the salaries for similar roles in comparable Performance metrics companies.
The Committee also considers the published salary data for Basic salary levels are predicated on continued good performance by FTSE 250 companies and other companies in the public transport industry.
Account is also taken of pay conditions throughout the Group.
Salary levels set effective from 1 May 2017 are set out in section 8.5.
1 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
2.1Fixed elements of pay continued PENSIONS AND LIFE ASSURANCE ARRANGEMENTS Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value To provide relevant life assurance and pension benefits that are Final salary elements are related to basic salary and length of service, competitive in the market.
and any payment to a money-purchase arrangement or an employer cash allowance would be limited to a third of basic salary.
Operation Performance metrics Pension arrangements for executive directors are designed to provide Pensions and life assurance arrangements are predicated on continued pension benefits on retirement of up to two thirds of final pensionable good performance by the director.
pay and may be met through a combination of defined benefit pension arrangements, money purchase or cash allowances.
Her Majestys Revenue and Customs HMRC and pension scheme rules provide that defined benefit pension benefits may not be drawn before age 55.
Freedom and Choice regulations introduced by the United Kingdom Government in 2015 have impacted the flexibility for pension scheme members in transferring benefits out of pension schemes.
Consistent with arrangements for other members of the relevant pension schemes, accrued defined benefits pensions may be transferred out to the beneficiary in accordance with the transfer arrangements established by the trustees, or in the case of the company funded arrangements, at the amount accrued in the consolidated financial statements in respect of such benefits at the point of transfer.
BENEFITS IN KIND AND OTHER ALLOWANCES Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Designed to be competitive in the market.
Benefits vary by role, and are reviewed periodically to ensure they are reasonable relative to market.
There is no maximum value of a core Operation benefit package as this is dependent on the cost to the employing Benefits in kind and other allowances can include: company and the individuals circumstances.
Health-care benefits, life assurance cover, company car allowance, and Participation in the BAYE scheme is subject to HMRC limits.
Performance metrics Opportunities to join the Buy As You Earn BAYE scheme.
Benefits in kind and other allowances are predicated on continued Relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
good performance by the director.
Business related travel and subsistence costs will be met or reimbursed including directors partners attending corporate events or management conferences.
Where the Committee considers it appropriate other benefits may be provided, including on recruitment or relocation.
2.2Variable pay PERFORMANCE-RELATED ANNUAL CASH BONUSES Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Aims to focus the Executive Directors on achieving demanding annual The potential annual bonus that can be earned by an executive targets relating to Group performance.
director in respect of any financial year may never exceed 150% of basic salary.
The maximum annual bonus would be set each year Operation within a range of 100% to 150% of basic salary, of which no more than Around the start of each financial year, the Committee agrees specific 50% of any actual bonus award in the year will be settled in cash.
objectives for each executive director.
Following the end of each financial Performance metrics year, the Remuneration Committee determines the performance-related The performance conditions for the annual bonus awards are subject to annual bonus for each executive director for the year just ended.
This is a combination of financial objectives and individual business related based on each directors performance in achieving the set objectives, and objectives.
Around the start of each financial year, the Committee will determine one In accordance with the rules of the Executive Participation Plan EPP, or more financial measures that will apply for bonus purposes for that at least 50% of any actual bonus will be deferred as shares.
The Committee will also determine the maximum potential bonus Claw-back and malus provisions will apply to the cash and deferred amount expressed as a percentage of basic salary that an executive elements of the annual bonus as described in section 8.4.
director will have the ability to earn in respect of each financial measure.
The aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives will be between 70% and 120% of basic salary.
For each financial measure, the Committee will determine the performance levels that will trigger Threshold, Target and Maximum payout.
The Threshold amount for a given financial measure will be triggered on the minimum performance that needs to be achieved to earn any bonus in respect of that measure.
The Maximum amount is the maximum potential bonus in respect of that measure.
The Target amount will be the arithmetic average of the Threshold and Maximum amounts.
For each financial measure: The maximum potential bonus amount, payable only on the achievement of Maximum performance is the amount set by the Committee subject to the overall aggregate limits explained above: The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be 50% of the maximum potential bonus amount where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is 70% of basic salary.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 51 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 52 Directors remuneration report 8.4.
2.2 Variable pay continued PERFORMANCE-RELATED ANNUAL CASH BONUSES continued The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be 25% of the maximum potential bonus amount where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is 120% of basic salary.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of Threshold performance will be between 25% and 50% of the maximum potential bonus amount, determined on a straight-line basis, where the aggregate maximum potential bonus amount across all financial objectives is greater than 70% but less than 120% of basic salary.
The bonus amount payable on the achievement of performance between the Threshold and the Maximum will be between a the bonus amount payable on Threshold performance and b the maximum potential bonus, determined on a straight-line basis proportionate to the extent actual performance exceeds Threshold performance.
The tables below provide examples of how the above policy may be implemented.
Example 1: Bonus potential of 70% of basic pay for financial performance: Financial objectives Maximum Potential payout as a percentage of: Potential Threshold Target Maximum Maximum award level 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% Basic pay 70.0% 35.0% 52.5% 70.0% Example 2: Bonus potential of 120% of basic pay for financial performance: Financial objectives Maximum Potential payout as a percentage of: Potential Threshold Target Maximum Maximum award level 25.0% 62.5% 100.0% Basic pay 120.0% 30.0% 75.0% 120.0% The aggregate maximum potential bonus amount for achievement of the individual business related objectives will be between 30% and 45% of basic pay.
A number of objectives are set for the individual business related objectives.
To the extent that a particular objective is satisfied then there would be a payout in respect of that objective.
If the objective is not satisfied then there is no payout in respect of that objective.
The minimum level of performance required to be met for payout for each of the discrete objectives is that specified in the objectives.
In assessing the level of bonuses that will be paid, including individual business related objectives, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the level of any pay-outs after taking into account the financial performance and standing of the Group and the overall individual performance of the relevant director.
So, even where one or more of the specified objectives have been achieved, the Committee has the discretion to pay no or a reduced bonus.
Further details of the performance measures used for the 2017 bonus are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration in section 8.5.
ExECUTIVE PARTICIPATION PLAN EPP Purpose and link to strategy objectives Maximum value Aims to align the interests of managers and shareholders by awarding At least 50% of any actual bonus earned in the year will be deferred as interests in shares out of the annual bonus award.
By agreement with the Remuneration Committee, more than 50% may be deferred.
It is also designed to provide an incentive for managers to remain with the Group.
Additional shares are allocated in respect of dividends payable during the relevant period.
Operation The actual value of the awards at vesting will reflect the face value of Participants are awarded Deferred Shares with a minimum 3 year the Deferred Shares at the time of award but also subsequent vesting period, which can be issued as either a conditional award or a movements in the Companys share price and dividends paid by the nil-cost option, with an initial market value approximately equal to the Company.
amount of the actual cash bonus forgone.
Performance metrics Unvested awards are subject to malus details are in section 8.4.
3 The EPP is an effective retention programme in that participants would below.
lose their entitlement to the Deferred Shares if, save for good leaver provisions, they left of their own volition during the three-year deferral period.
It also increases participants effective equity interests in the Group and so better aligns their interests with shareholders.
There are no specific performance conditions attaching to the release of Deferred Shares because the annual bonus under which the Deferred Shares are earned is already subject to performance conditions.
2.2 Variable pay continued LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Purpose and link to strategy objectives Performance metrics Aims to align the interests of shareholders and management in growing Awards granted prior to 25 August 2017 will be subject to the terms of the 2014 remuneration policy that was in effect up to that date.
the return to shareholders and the value of the business over the longterm.
Awards granted from 25 August 2017 would be subject to the following arrangements.
Operation Awards remain subject to two performance conditions, with one half of Participants are awarded Incentive Units, which have a nominal value annual awards being made based on relative total shareholder return equal to one of the Groups ordinary shares.
Incentive Units can be in TSR, and the other half based on challenging profit targets set by the form of a conditional award, a cash award or a nil-cost option.
the Committee for a three-year period.
Awards are subject to malus, and all awards granted after 25 August TSR is calculated as the movement in share value after taking account 2017 are subject to both malus and claw-back details are in section of re-invested dividends.
TSR is measured relative to an appropriate 8.4.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards only in comparator group of FTSE 250 companies or other peer grouping of accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
companies in the public transport industry.
Subject to performance conditions, Incentive Units vest around three In setting targets for the profit based performance condition the years after the date of award.
Committee may take into account a range of factors such as: Maximum value internal and external factors affecting the Group, The maximum award granted in relation to any financial year for an the long-term expectations for each of the operating divisions, and individual is limited to Incentive Units with an aggregate face value at the time of award, not exceeding 150% of basic salary.
The actual value analysts consensus expectations for the operating divisions and the of the awards at vesting will reflect the face value of the Incentive Group as a whole.
Units at the time of award but also subsequent movements in the For the Incentive Units awarded that are subject to the TSR condition, Companys share price, dividends paid by the Company and actual vesting will be as follows: performance relative to the performance metrics.
If the TSR does not exceed the median of the comparator group, then none of the relevant Incentive Units awarded will vest and they will lapse: If the TSR exceeds the median of the comparator group which is the threshold performance level, then one-quarter 25% of the available Incentive Units will vest and the remainder will lapse: If the TSR is in the top quartile of the comparator group, then all of the available Incentive Units will vest: If the TSR is higher than the median but less than the top quartile of the comparator group, then the proportion of the Incentive Units that will vest would be between 25% and 100% of the available Incentive Units adjusted on a straight-line basis depending on the actual ranking against the comparator group.
For the Incentive Units awarded that are subject to the profit condition, vesting will be as follows: If the profit achievement is below the target for threshold vesting set by the Remuneration Committee, then none of the relevant available Incentive Units will vest and they will all lapse: If the profit achievement equals the target for threshold vesting set by the Remuneration Committee which is the threshold performance level, then one-quarter 25% of the available Incentive Units will vest and the remainder will lapse: If the profit achievement equals or exceeds the target for maximum vesting set by the Remuneration Committee then all of the available Incentive Units will vest: If the profit achievement is higher than the threshold vesting target but less than the maximum vesting target, then the proportion of the Incentive Units that will vest would be between 25% and 100% of the available Incentive Units adjusted on a straight-line basis depending on the profit achieved.
The performance conditions are tested over a three year period, being the three years commencing on or around the 1 May or 1 November immediately preceding the date of the relevant award.
The Committee is satisfied that the proposed remuneration policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk taking.
As part of the Directors remuneration policy, the Committee reserves the right to make minor amendments to the policies set out for regulatory, exchange control, administrative or tax purposes.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 53 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 54 Directors remuneration report 8.4.
3 Malus and claw-back For the purposes of this remuneration policy, Malus refers to the withholding, cancellation or reduction of amounts of remuneration otherwise payable to a director.
Malus may apply to unvested awards where stated in the policy table shown above.
Under the malus provisions, the Remuneration Committee can reduce to nil if appropriate awards that have not yet vested.
The circumstances in which the malus provisions may apply are set out below: If a participant has deliberately misled the management of the Group, the market or the Company's shareholders regarding the financial performance of any Group Company or the participant's business unit: If a participant's actions or inactions have caused either the Group, any Group Company or the participant's business unit reputational damage: If a participant's actions or inactions amount to serious misconduct or conduct which causes significant financial loss for the Group, any Group Company or the participant's business unit: If a participant's actions or inactions have caused a serious failure of risk management by the Group, any Group Company or the participant's business unit: or Other similar circumstances, where the Committee determines that the malus provisions should apply.
Claw-back arrangements may apply to awards granted after 25 August 2017 where stated in the policy table shown above.
Under claw-back arrangements, the Remuneration Committee may require a participant to repay the following elements of variable pay: the cash part of the annual bonus will be subject to potential claw-back for a period of two years following payment: the cash received or the cash equivalent value on vesting of shares received under the LTIP will be subject to claw-back arrangements for a period of two years from the vesting of an LTIP award.
The circumstances in which the Remuneration Committee may claw-back awards are set out below: If a participant's actions or inactions amount to serious misconduct which causes significant financial loss for the Group: or a material restatement of the previously published financial statements for the Group other than in respect of a change in accounting policy : or Where and to the extent that there has been an error in the calculation of any payout under an award.
No other element of remuneration is subject to malus or claw-back.
4 Payments from outstanding awards The Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payment under any contractual arrangement agreed under the 2014 remuneration policy or entitlements established prior to the approval and implementation of the 2014 policy, including the vesting of awards granted prior to the revised remuneration policy taking effect on 25 August 2017.
5.1 Annual bonus targets The maximum annual bonus potential would be set by the Committee around the start of each financial year and be within the range of 100% and 150% of basic pay, out of which between 70% and 120% of basic pay would be subject to financial performance measures, and between 30% and 45% of basic pay would be subject to a number of individual business related objectives.
The individual business related objectives used under the Annual Bonus Plan include achievement of personal and strategic goals.
Personal performance measures and targets are proposed by the Chairman for the Chief Executive and by the Chief Executive for other Executive Directors.
The Committee discusses and sets the targets for executive directors and their review is linked to an annual appraisal process.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the personal element are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal management projects, strategic objectives and personal goals and it is not intended that these will be disclosed in advance.
The Committees intention is that a summary of these objectives will be disclosed when they are no longer considered commercially sensitive.
Targets for the Annual Bonus Plan are set with due regard to internal and external forecasts.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable and take into account the economic environment in a given year.
The Committee retains the discretion to amend the number, weightings and components of the financial and non-financial elements of the bonus from year to year and for each executive as appropriate, subject to the overall limits described above.
5.2 LTIP performance targets LTIP awards will be split with one half based on TSR performance against an appropriate comparator group of FTSE 250 companies or other companies in the public transport industry, and the other half based on performance against a profit measure for the Group or key operating divisions.
For the TSR based awards, the TSR must exceed the median of the comparator group before a payout is available.
The amount of Incentive Units released will range from 25% to 100% of each award depending on the actual ranking.
A top quartile ranking is required to achieve 100% release of units.
Demanding targets for the profit measure for the three year performance period will be set for the other half of the awards based on a range of relevant market factors and expectations for the Group or relevant operating divisions as at the date of award.
The maximum level of awards granted for an individual in any financial year is limited to Incentive Units with an aggregate face value at the time of award not exceeding 150% of basic salary.
6 Pension benefits Under the legacy terms of their service agreements, the Executive Directors are entitled to accrue benefits under defined benefit pension arrangements or, if preferred, to receive a cash allowance in lieu of contributions to pension arrangements.
Pension arrangements are intended to provide pension benefits on retirement up to two thirds of final pensionable pay.
The normal retirement age for executive directors is 60.
In accordance with HMRC rules, accrued defined benefits may not be drawn before age 55.
Benefits may only be drawn subject to any necessary employer or trustee consent and in accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
Life assurance of four times basic annual salary is provided under the arrangements for pension benefits.
7 Remuneration policy table for the Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out key components of the remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors.
BASICSALARY FEES Purpose and link to strategy objectives related expenses and travel and accommodation expenses will be met or reimbursed including for partners at corporate events or management To attract and retain non-executive directors with an appropriate conferences.
Home telephone and communications costs may be met or degree of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the reimbursed.
To attract and retain a Chairman and Deputy Chairman to provide Maximum value effective leadership for the Board.
Any fee increases are applied in line with the outcome of the annual review.
Operation Non-Executive Directors fees are subject to an aggregate maximum Fee levels for non-executive directors are generally reviewed by the Board cap which is stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to annually with any adjustments effective 1 May in the year following review shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, that cap will be increased from although there is discretion to adjust them at other times of the year.
800,000 to 1,200,000 and may subsequently be further adjusted by Account is taken of individual responsibilities, involvement in Board an ordinary resolution of the Company.
That cap, as adjusted from committees and fees for similar roles in comparable companies.
time to time, is the only limit in place that acts as setting a maximum Remuneration comprises an annual fee for acting as a non-executive value for fees payable to non-executive directors.
Performance metrics Remuneration for the Chairman comprises an annual fee for acting as Chairman.
Non-executive directors do not participate in pensions or incentive benefits, or receive other remuneration in addition to their fees.
8 Approach to the remuneration of newly appointed directors The Groups approach to remuneration for newly appointed directors is generally the same as that for existing directors.
As a matter of practicality, it is recognised that it may be necessary to pay within the market top quartile salaries in order to attract candidates of the quality the business needs.
Equally, a new recruit may be appointed on a lower than market rate salary with phased increases to bring it to the market level.
New executive directors will be invited to participate in incentive plans on the same basis as existing executive directors.
Where appropriate, the Company will offer to pay reasonable relocation and expatriate expenses for new executive directors in line with the Companys policies described above.
It is not generally the Companys policy to offer golden hellos or sign-on payments, but where the Remuneration Committee considers it is necessary to do so in order to recruit a particular individual, it may offer compensation for amounts of variable remuneration under previous employment being forfeited.
Any such compensation for variable remuneration forfeited would be subject to a maximum of the value of the unvested awards taking account of the time to vesting, delivery vehicle e. g. cash, shares, or share options, any performance conditions attached to the awards and the likelihood of the conditions being met.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the discretion to put in place a plan under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R without seeking shareholders approval in order to facilitate such an arrangement.
The maximum compensation for variable remuneration forfeited as set out above will be applied even where Listing Rule 9.4.
2R would permit higher amounts to be paid.
Where the Company is considering the promotion of a senior manager to the Board, the Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, agree that any commitments including in respect of loss of office payments made before promotion will continue to be honoured whether or not otherwise consistent with the policy prevailing at the time the commitment is fulfilled.
In recruiting a new non-executive director, the Remuneration Committee will apply the policy as set out in the table in section 8.4.
9 Pay for performance: scenario analysis A key element of the Companys remuneration policy is to provide a significant part of potential reward through performance based incentive plans.
The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Expected, and Maximum.
Chief Executive potential annual pay outcomes Finance Director potential annual pay outcomes 2,800 2,800 2,400 39% 2,400 2,000 2,000 21% 1,600 39% 26% 1,600 26% 1,200 20% 1,200 26% 800 26% 800 100% 53% 35% 400 100% 54% 400 Minimum Expected Maximum Minimum Expected Maximum 892k 1,674k 2,522k 602k 1,123k 1,689k Salary, pension and benefits Annual Bonus LTIP Salary, pension and benefits Annual Bonus LTIP Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the proposed new remuneration policy, applied to the basic salary in force at 1 May 2017.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are based on those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2017 18 on the basis of a maximum bonus potential of 100% of basic pay, and that any actual bonus award would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in Deferred Shares under the EPP valued using the share price at the date of grant.
It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Stagecoach Group plc | page 55 35% 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 56 Directors remuneration report Annual Bonus LTIP Pension Minimum No annual bonus payable No vesting nil payment 33% of basic salary Expected 67.5% of the maximum annual bonus payable 35% vesting of maximum award 33% of basic salary Maximum 100% of maximum annual bonus 100% vesting of maximum award 33% of basic salary For the purposes of the charts above it is assumed that 70% of the annual bonus plan would be based on financial objectives and 30% over a range of individual business related objectives.
While each individual business related objective will be separately assessed, for the purpose of the two charts above, the assumption is that the expected level of performance is for one-half of the objectives to be satisfied, and that all are satisfied for maximum achievement.
Pension amounts are included at 33% of basic salary which is equivalent to the money purchase or cash allowance alternative available under the Policy.
This differs from how pension amounts shown in Table 1 in section 8.5.
3 are calculated, which is in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 13 of the 2013 Regulations.
It should be noted that the value of EPP and LTIP awards can increase due to increases in the Companys share price and or payments of dividends by the Company, and accordingly, there is no absolute maximum value of such awards.
10 Employment conditions across the Group The Committee is kept regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group, although when setting the Directors remuneration policy, the wider employee group is not formally consulted.
In determining the adjustments to the Executive Directors and Group executive salaries, the Committee considers the increases to pay levels across the broader employee population.
11 Details of directors service contracts The Executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment.
It is the Groups policy that Executive Directors should have 12-month rolling service contracts providing for a maximum of one years notice.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the service contracts contain restrictive covenants.
The principal terms of the Executive Directors service contracts which have no fixed term effective during the year were as follows: Executive Directors service contracts Name of director Date of contract Notice period Martin Griffiths 22 February 2013 12 months Ross Paterson 11 February 2013 12 months The contracts for the Chairman and Deputy Chairman effective of 1 April 2016 provide for six and three months notice periods respectively.
Other non-executive directors are appointed by a letter, which provide for one months notice.
The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and a non-executive director can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
All notice periods apply to both the director and the Company.
12 Loss of office payment policy It is the Groups policy to provide for 12 months notice for termination of employment for executive directors, to be given by either party, and to make severance payments on termination in line with any pre-established contractual arrangements.
Service contracts provide that an executive director shall give and shall receive 12 months notice on termination and contain standard garden leave provisions which the Group can enforce in order to protect the Groups interests during a period of notice.
An executive director would continue to be paid his basic salary and contractual benefits during any period of garden leave in the usual way save that he will not be entitled to receive awards under the EPP or the LTIP or similar.
Any bonus in respect of any period of garden leave would be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee considering the specific circumstances but would not exceed the annual maximum bonus that may be paid in accordance with the Policy set out in section 8.4.
This bonus potential on loss of office is the effect of legacy contractual positions and will not be incorporated into contracts for new appointments.
In any event, the Remuneration Committee can decide that no such bonus will be payable if and to the extent it reasonably considers that the payment of a bonus could be perceived as a reward for failure.
There are no arrangements that require the enhancement or acceleration of pension benefits on termination or early retirement.
In the case of gross misconduct by an executive director, a provision is included in the executives contract for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable.
In other cases where an executive directors employment is terminated with immediate effect, the Committees policy would be that any compensating payments would not exceed any amounts due under the contractual arrangements as summarised above.
In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of the Group, or his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group or other such event as the Remuneration Committee determines, then LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest based on performance over the performance period as determined by the rules of the LTIP.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards will lapse at the end of the directors period of employment.
In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, redundancy, or his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group, then awards of EPP Deferred Shares will vest at the date of leaving for the benefit of the director.
If an executive director retires with the agreement of the Company, retirement is not a vesting event for the EPP and so the awards will vest on their original vesting date.
For all other leavers, outstanding EPP awards will lapse at the end of the directors period of employment.
In the event an executive director leaves for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, redundancy, retirement, or his employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group, then shares held under any BAYE awards will vest in accordance with the HMRC approved rules of the BAYE Scheme.
For all other leavers, outstanding BAYE matching share awards will lapse.
Payments for loss of office may only be made to directors or former directors if such payments are consistent with the approved remuneration policy or are otherwise approved by an ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
13 Change of control The following apply where there is a change in control of the Group: Each executive director is entitled to normal termination benefits as outlined above, except where the director is offered and has refused employment on terms and conditions that were no less favourable to those in place prior to the change of control, in which case the director will have no claim against the Group in respect of termination of employment: Under the EPP, Deferred Shares would automatically vest on a change of control: Under the LTIP, Incentive Units would vest on a pro-rata basis taking account of the proportion of the vesting period that had expired and the applicable performance conditions: and Under the BAYE, awards will vest in full or, alternatively, the acquiring company may offer to roll-over the awards into awards over shares in the acquiring company.
14 Consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year at its first meeting following the Annual General Meeting.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during other meetings with shareholders and representative bodies, is then considered when reviewing remuneration policy.
When any material changes are proposed by the Group to the remuneration policy, the Committee will consult major shareholders.
15 External appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other unconnected companies and to retain any related remuneration, as this will broaden and enrich the business skills of a director so long as the time commitments do not have any detrimental impact on the ability of the director to fulfil his duties.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Board.
8.5 Annual Remuneration Report This section of the remuneration report provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year ended 29 April 2017.
1 Committee members The Remuneration Committee is currently composed of three independent non-executive directors.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Group Director of Tax and Employee Benefits attended as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive attended meetings to provide information on performance and strategy.
A representative from the Committees independent external remuneration advisor attended at least part of every Remuneration Committee meeting during the year.
The Finance Director attended part of one meeting to present a view on the short and long-term outlook for the Groups financial performance.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in section 4.10.
No director was involved in decisions as to their own remuneration.
Garry Watts as Chairman to 31 July 2016 Julie Southern as Chairman from 7 October 2016 Gregor Alexander James Bilefield There was no business to be considered by the Committee in the two months between Garry Watts stepping down as Committee Chairman on 31 July 2016 and Julie Southern succeeding him on 7 October 2016.
The remuneration of executive directors was not considered by any other Committee or group of directors during the year.
2 Advisers Addleshaw Goddard LLP provided remuneration consultancy until 31 October 2016.
From 18 November 2016, Osborne Clarke LLP provided such consultancy.
They each acted as the Committees independent remuneration consultant, providing access to independent research and advice.
The Group has no other connection to either Addleshaw Goddard LLP or Osborne Clarke LLP.
Addleshaw Goddard LLP received 3,000 2016: 8,417 in respect of work it carried out in the year ended 29 April 2017 and Osborne Clarke LLP received 10,211 2016: Nil.
The fees payable were determined with reference to time spent and applicable hourly rates.
We do not consider the level of fees paid or the nature of the work performed would prejudice the objectivity or independence of the remuneration consultants.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 57 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 58 Directors remuneration report 8.5.
3 Remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors audited The remuneration of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may comprise a number of elements, as described in the Directors remuneration policy.
Directors remuneration and the single figure total for the year ended 29 April 2017 are shown in Table 1 below.
Each of the elements of remuneration is discussed further below.
TABLE 1 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Short Term Long Term Basic Benefits Incentives Incentives Pension amounts in 000 Salary Fees in performance vested related Total kind related bonus LTIP benefits 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Executive directors Martin Griffiths 639 627 25 25 302 334 347 330 1,313 1,316 Ross Paterson 426 418 23 23 195 223 167 192 811 856 Non-executive directors Gregor Alexander 60 59 60 59 James Bilefield appointed 1 February 2016 58 13 58 13 Sir Ewan Brown 53 53 53 53 Ann Gloag 55 54 55 54 Helen Mahy resigned 29 February 2016 49 49 Ray O'Toole appointed 1 September 2016 40 40 Sir Brian Souter 213 209 213 209 Julie Southern appointed 7 October 2016 34 34 Karen Thomson appointed 31 March 2016 58 5 58 5 Garry Watts resigned 31 July 2016 33 131 33 131 Phil White resigned 31 March 2016 54 54 Will Whitehorn 150 62 150 62 Total 1,819 1,734 48 48 497 557 514 522 2,878 2,861 Notes to Table 1: i.
Basic Salary fees The basic salary fees in Table 1 correspond to the amounts payable in respect of the financial year ended April.
Both Executive Directors participated in pension salary sacrifice arrangements during the year and the basic salary amounts are shown gross before any salary sacrifice arrangements.
Benefits in kind and other allowances The benefits in kind shown in Table 1 are made up as follows: Reimbursement Employer TABLE 2 BENEFITS IN KIND Cash allowance in lieu Healthcare Total of home BAYE of company car benefits AND OTHER ALLOWANCES telephone expenses contributions 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 Martin Griffiths 22,000 22,000 964 1,061 1,906 1,800 202 185 25,072 25,046 Ross Paterson 22,000 22,000 964 1,061 202 185 23,166 23,246 Sir Brian Souter 337 286 337 286 During the year, both Executive Directors participated in the Buy As You Earn BAYE Plan.
We believe that the BAYE plan aligns the interests of employees and shareholders by allowing all UK employees of the Group to purchase shares out of salary.
It is designed to aid staff motivation and retention.
The maximum employee purchase is governed by HMRC limits and is currently 1,800 per annum.
The Group provides two matching shares for every share purchased on the first 10 of each employees monthly investment.
The amounts shown in Table 2 are the values of such matching shares allocated to directors as at the dates of allocation.
Details of the shares held under the BAYE plan are shown in Table 11. iii.
Performance related bonus Around the start of each financial year, the Committee agrees specific objectives for each executive director.
Following the end of each financial year, the Committee determines the annual bonus for each executive director for the year just ended.
This is based on the directors performance in achieving the set objectives.
The objectives comprise both financial objectives for the Group and individual business related objectives for each director.
For each executive director, the Group financial objectives for the year ended 29 April 2017 were to meet financial targets with respect to measures of profit before interest and taxation, earnings per share, and net debt.
page 58 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 59 For the year ended 29 April 2017, Martin Griffiths and Ross Paterson each had a maximum potential bonus of up to 100% of basic salary, with 70% allocated over a range of financial objectives and 30% for meeting individual business related objectives.
Details of the financial objectives applicable for 2016 17 are shown below: TABLE 3 DIRECTORS OBJECTIVES Target Achieved Potential Bonus Bonus Awarded % of basic salary % of basic salary Consolidated profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group companies 198.8m 168.7m 23.4% Consolidated adjusted earnings per share EPS 27.3p 24.7p 23.3% Consolidated net debt Net Debt 478.1m 430.3m 23.3% 23.3% Element of bonus related to Group financial objectives 70.0% 23.3% The PBIT and EPS measures shown above are determined in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards but adjusted to exclude intangible asset expenses, exceptional items, and rail franchise bid costs.
The PBIT measure also excludes any share of profit or loss from joint ventures.
The Net Debt measure shown above is determined in accordance with the definition of net debt given in note 34 to the consolidated financial statements excluding any unbudgeted over or under spend on rail franchise bid costs.
The actual values achieved in respect of each of the three measures are adjusted to exclude the impact of any acquisitions and disposals of businesses that were not included in determining the target values.
For the year ended 29 April 2017, the Chief Executive had personal objectives relating to: Leadership on health and safety performance across all business units: Contractual and financial risk reduction from rail franchising activities: Strategic review of European inter-city coach operations: Strategic review of UK Bus in line with regulatory developments: and Development of the Group digital strategy.
For the year ended 29 April 2017, the Finance Director had personal objectives relating to: Maintaining an investment grade credit rating: Enhancing reporting and analytics within UK Bus: Delivering a local transport app: and Contractual and financial risk reduction from rail franchising activities.
The Committee intends to provide information on the Executive Directors personal objectives for the year ending 28 April 2018 when it considers such disclosure to be no longer commercially sensitive.
In making its judgement of performance for the last financial year, the Remuneration Committee had particular regard to the Groups financial results as presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, relative total return to shareholders over the year, the Groups operational performance and other strategic developments.
Performance related bonuses awarded to the Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 29 April 2017 are shown below: TABLE 4 DIRECTORS BONUSES AWARDED Actual bonus as a percentage of Maximum potential bonus as a percentage of basic salary basic salary Director Cash Deferred Shares under EPP Cash Deferred Shares under EPP Martin Griffiths 23.7% 23.7% 50% 50% Ross Paterson 22.9% 22.9% 50% 50% iv.
LTIP No amount is shown in Table 1 in respect of the LTIP vestings for the year ended 29 April 2017, as the December 2013 award achieved a ranking of 190 out of the 230 companies in the comparator group throughout the performance period, so did not pay out.
Similarly, no amount is included for the June 2014 awards as it is considered unlikely they will pay out.
TABLE 5 LTIPAWARDS Amounts treated as vested for As at 30 April Dividends Lapsed As at 29 April included in inclusion in Table 1 2016 in year during year 2017 Table 1 including Incentive Incentive Incentive Incentive dividend amounts Grant date Units Units Units Units Vesting Date Martin Griffiths 12 Dec 13 129,559 4,876 134,435 12 Dec 16 26 Jun 14 128,913 7,357 136,270 28 Jun 17 Ross Paterson 12 Dec 13 86,371 3,250 89,621 12 Dec 16 26 Jun 14 85,942 4,904 90,846 28 Jun 17 LTIP awards vested in June 2016 In the 2016 Annual Report a nil value was included in respect of the June 2013 LTIP awards, and it is confirmed that this was in accordance with the actual vesting as no payment was made on vesting in June 2016.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 59 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 60 Directors remuneration report v. Pension related benefits The pension amounts shown in Table 1 are nominally calculated in accordance with the provisions of the 2013 Regulations and so represents 20 times the increase excluding inflation in the accrued annual pension entitlement plus the increase excluding inflation in the accrued cash lump sum entitlement, less contributions paid by the director.
External Appointments Martin Griffiths is a non-executive director of AG Barr plc, and was permitted to retain the 56,289 fees received from this position in the year ended 29 April 2017 2016: 55,395.
4 Pensions audited Under the legacy terms of their service agreements, the Executive Directors accrued benefits under defined benefit pension arrangements.
Historic benefits previously accrued under an HMRC approved pension scheme and included in the Table 6 below were revalued only for inflation.
The directors accrued benefits in the year ended 29 April 2017 under Group funded pension arrangements.
Other than adjustments for inflation, no further benefits accrued under the HMRC approved Group defined benefit pension scheme during the year.
Pension benefits are targeted with a normal retirement age of 60.
Table 6 below provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and gives details of benefits accruing during the year under the Groups pension arrangements.
TABLE 6 DIRECTORS PENSION Contributions paid Accrued Accrued BENEFITS Normal by the director Accrued cash annual pension Accrued cash annual pension Retirement for the year ended entitlement at entitlement at entitlement at entitlement at date 29 April 2017 30 April 2016 30 April 2016 29 April 2017 29 April 2017 000 000 000 000 000 Martin Griffiths 31 March 2026 56 168 132 169 153 Ross Paterson 29 July 2031 38 137 76 138 87 The totals above include pension benefits accrued for service prior to appointment as a director of the Company.
Directors contributions to pension schemes as shown in Table 6 above are made by way of salary sacrifice arrangements.
No non-executive directors accrued benefits in the year under money purchase schemes or defined benefits schemes in connection with their roles with the Group.
5 EPP and LTIP awards during the financial year audited Tables 7 and 9 set out the awards to the Executive Directors under the Companys share schemes during the year ended 29 April 2017.
TABLE 7 LTIP AWARDS IN YEAR Awards Face Type of Share price at granted in year value at Performance interest time of award Basis Incentive time of grant Vesting period awarded of award Units Date approximate Martin Griffiths 30 Jun 16 Incentive 2.2650 75% of 211,655 479,398 30 Jun 19 1 May 2016 - Units basic salary 30 April 2019 8 Dec 16 Incentive 2.1100 75% of 227,203 479,398 8 Dec 19 1 Nov 2016 - Units basic salary 31 Oct 2019 Ross Paterson 30 Jun 16 Incentive 2.2650 75% of 141,125 319,648 30 Jun 19 1 May 2016 - Units basic salary 30 April 2019 8 Dec 16 Incentive 2.1100 75% of 151,492 319,648 8 Dec 19 1 Nov 2016 - Units basic salary 31 Oct 2019 Each Incentive Unit shown in Table 7 has a notional face value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares and was granted as a cash-settled award.
The closing price on the preceding dealing day was used to determine the number of Incentive Units.
The face values shown above ignore non-market vesting conditions and do not include any assumed share price appreciation or dividends paid.
The actual number of Incentive Units if any which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved.
Both awards are subject to two performance conditions.
One half of the award is based on TSR, where the TSR over the performance period must exceed the median of the comparator group, which is the list of FTSE 250 companies over the period.
The amount of units awarded which are released will range from 25% to 100% depending on the actual ranking achieved.
A top quartile ranking is required to achieve a 100% release of units.
No units will vest for belowthreshold performance.
The other half of each award is based on targets set for a measure of EPS over a three-year period.
The threshold and upper performance targets for each award over the three year performance period are as follows: TABLE 8 EPSPerformance Criteria Award date Threshold Maximum 30 Jun 16 31.9p 35.2p 8 Dec 16 28.9p 31.9p 25% of the Incentive Units would vest for a threshold level of performance and 100% for maximum performance.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis would be applied between these lower and upper vesting levels.
page 60 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 61 TABLE 9 EPP AWARDS IN YEAR Maximum and Share price Awards expected total Type of at time granted in value of award interest of award Basis year Deferred at time of grant Vesting Performance Award date awarded of award Shares Date period Martin Griffiths 30 Jun 16 Deferred Shares 2.2650 50% of 73,737 167,014 30 Jun 19 n a annual bonus Ross Paterson 30 Jun 16 Deferred Shares 2.2650 50% of 49,158 111,343 30 Jun 19 n a annual bonus Each Deferred Share shown in Table 9 has a notional face value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares.
The maximum and total expected values ignore non-market vesting conditions and do not include any assumed share price appreciation or dividends paid.
There are no specific performance conditions attaching to the release of these Deferred Shares because the annual bonus is already subject to performance conditions.
6 Payments to past directors audited There have been no payments 2016: Nil in excess of the fide minimis threshold to former directors during the year ended 29 April 2017 in respect of their former roles as directors.
The Company has set a fide minimis threshold of 10,000 under which it would not report such payments.
7 Payments for loss of office audited There have been no payments for loss of office to directors during the year ended 29 April 2017 2016: Nil.
8 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited The Executive Directors and certain other senior executives are expected to accumulate significant shareholdings in the Company.
In the case of the Executive Directors, they are each expected to accumulate an effective interest in shares in the Group with a value of at least 200% of basic salary.
A target of 100% was first introduced in 2005 and was amended to 200% in June 2014 following feedback from shareholders.
The Executive Directors are allowed five years from the date of appointment to accumulate the appropriate level of shares.
Where there have been relevant increases in basic salary or significant fluctuations in the share price of the Company, the Committee may allow a further period of three years for directors to adjust their holdings within the shareholding guideline.
For these purposes, EPP Deferred Shares will be counted on a post-tax basis only and all interests in shares will be counted at current value as at the relevant measurement date.
LTIP Incentive Units are not included in this measurement.
As at 29 April 2017, Martin Griffiths had an interest in shares equivalent to 197% 2016: 226% of his basic salary and Ross Paterson had an interest in shares equivalent to 154% 2016: 179% of his basic salary.
Both directors have at various points in the previous two years comfortably met the guideline and the Committee also noted that both directors increased their interest in the number of shares held outright during the period.
There was no divestment in the period by either director and they are below the target because of the fall in the Companys share price.
As such the Committee remains satisfied that both directors retained significant interests in the shares of the Company.
Consistent with the Committees policy explained above it is satisfied that a director should have a period of three years to adjust his holding in shares to achieve the shareholding guideline.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 61 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 62 Directors remuneration report The effective interests of the Directors including those of connected persons as at 29 April 2017 were: Scheme interests vested TABLE 10 DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES OF THE Interests as at during year ended GROUP AS AT 29 APRIL 2017 29 April 2017 29 April 2017 LTIPIncentive EPPShares BAYE Shares LTIP Incentive EPPShares Units subject to not subject to not subject to Units subject to not subject to Shares held performance performance performance performance performance outright conditions conditions conditions conditions conditions Executive directors Martin Griffiths 497,103 1,012,535 219,517 3,776 79,163 Ross Paterson 240,071 675,062 146,346 3,776 25,857 Non-executive directors Gregor Alexander 10,406 James Bilefield Sir Ewan Brown see note below Ann Gloag 62,501,721 Ray O'Toole Sir Brian Souter 86,900,445 Julie Southern Karen Thomson Will Whitehorn 72,288 Sir Ewan Brown has an indirect interest in the share capital of the Company.
He and his connected parties own approximately 18% 2016: 18% of the ordinary shares of Noble Grossart Holdings Limited, which in turn through its subsidiary, Noble Grossart Investments Limited, held 3,567,999 ordinary shares in the Company at 29 April 2017 2016: 3,567,999.
Further details of directors interests in the LTIP, EPP and BAYE schemes are shown in Table 11 below.
9 Performance graph The graph below charts the performance of the total shareholder return TSR share value movement plus reinvested dividends from the Companys ordinary shares over the eight years to April 2017 compared with that of the FTSE Travel and Leisure All-Share Index, and the FTSE 250 Index.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected for this comparison because it is the index currently used by the Company for the TSR based performance criterion for the LTIP Scheme, while the FTSE Travel and Leisure All-Share Index is shown as the Company and a number of its peers make up a significant element of that index.
Stagecoach 8-Year TSR Comparative Performance to April 2017: Stagecoach TSR FTSE 350 Travel &Leisure TSR FTSE 250 TSR 420 370 320 270 220 170 120 70 20 May 09 Jul 09 Oct 09 Jan 10 Apr 10 Jul 10 Oct 10 Jan 11 Apr 11 Jul 11 Oct 11 Jan 12 Apr 12 Jul 12 Oct 12 Jan 13 Apr 13 Jul 13 Oct 13 Jan 14 Apr 14 Jul 14 Oct 14 Jan 15 Apr 16 Jul 16 Oct 16 Jan 17 Apr 17 For comparative purposes, the pay for the role of Chief Executive over time is shown in Table 12 below.
TABLE 12 PAY FOR THE ROLE OF CHIEF ExECUTIVE Sir Brian Souter Martin Griffiths Year ended April: 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Bonus percenta ge of max imum 35% 46% 47 % 64% 10 0% 65% 53% 47% LTIP vesting rates against maximum opportunity 100% 0% n a 61% 56% 10% 0% 0% Single figure of total remuneration 000 2,491 1,269 1,227 3,443 2,212 1,451 1,316 1,313 Sir Brian Souter waived entitlement to part of his cash bonus, with the amounts waived being used to support funding of medical screening in the UK Bus Divisions.
Therefore the bonus percentages shown in Table 12 above reflect the amounts awarded to Sir Brian net of the waivers.
For information, the full bonus percentage entitlements based on performance and before the waivers are shown in Table 13 below.
TAB ONUS TO Sir Brian Souter before Year ended 2010 2011 2012 2013 Bonus percentage of maximum 80% 90% 90% 90% The total remuneration figure is calculated on the same basis as the single total figure of remuneration for directors shown in Table 1 in section 8.5.
10 Percentage change in Chief Executive Remuneration audited The change in the Chief Executives remuneration from 2015 16 to 2016 17 in comparison to a comparator group of employees is shown in Table 14 below.
TABLE 14 PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION FOR THE ROLE Percentage change of Chief Executive Percentage change per capita of employees in OF CHIEF ExECUTIVE the comparator group throughout both years Salary 2.0% 4.5% Benefits 0.1% 6.2% Bonus 9.5 % 7.9% The comparator group used comprises over 300 employees including the corporate head office employees, the management teams of each of the Groups divisions and their administrative support staff.
This comparator group was used because the Committee believes it provides a sufficiently large and relative comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases, based on similar annual bonus performance measures utilised by Group management and support functions.
The Group seeks to ensure that the basis for pay increases for Group management support functions are generally consistent with the pay rises at UK Bus and Rail operations.
11 Relative importance of spend on pay audited The table below shows the expenditure of the Group on employee remuneration costs in the year ended 29 April 2017 and the year ended 30 April 2016.
In addition, it details the disbursements from profit made by way of dividend payments during the same periods.
TABLE 15 SPEND ON PAY RELATIVE TO 2017 2016 Percentage DIVIDENDS AND STAFF COSTS m m change Profit distributed by way of dividend to shareholders 67.1 62.0 8.2% Overall spend on pay for employees 1,436.8 1,382.3 3.9% Stagecoach Group plc | page 63 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 64 Directors remuneration report 8.5.
12 Shareholder voting at general meetings The following table shows the results of the vote on the 2016 remuneration report at the 2016 Annual General Meeting, along with the last vote on the policy from the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
TABLE 16 SHAREHOLDER VOTE Directors 2016 Directors 2014 Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 428,184,515 98.03% 442,971,273 95.53% Against 8,586,918 1.97% 20,747,438 4.47% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 436,771,433 100% 463,718,711 100% Votes withheld 146,129 1,370,407 Total votes cast including withheld votes 436,917,562 465,089,118 the number of votes for the resolution includes those cast at the Chairmans discretion.
A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
13 Implementation of remuneration policy in the financial year ending 28 April 2018 In the year ending 28 April 2018, the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors remuneration policies will be implemented as follows.
13.1 Implementation of executive directors remuneration policy 8.5.
1 Fixed elements basic salary The Committee made the following 2017 18 basic salary decisions, which are in line with the current and proposed Directors remuneration policy.
TABLE 17 INCREASES IN BASIC SALARY 2017 18 2016 17 Percentage salary salary change Martin Griffiths 652,000 639,200 2.0% Ross Paterson 434,700 426,200 2.0% Salaries are effective from 1 May each year.
The Committee has considered the broader employee context in determining salaries.
2 Other elements The implementation of policy in relation to other elements of remuneration is in line with the proposed Directors remuneration policy.
The maximum potential bonus award for the year to 28 April 2018 is retained at 100% of basic salary and the nominal value of LTIP awards will be retained at 150% of basic salary.
Short-term incentives Annual Bonus The implementation of policy in relation to annual bonus is in line with the proposed Directors remuneration policy.
Targets are approved by the Remuneration Committee around the beginning of the year.
Each executive director has a maximum potential bonus of up to 100% of basic salary for 2017 18, with 70% allocated over a range of demanding key financial objectives and 30% for meeting individual business related objectives.
"The Committee has determined that the element of the potential bonus related to financial objectives for 2017 18 will be allocated as follows: TABLE 18 POTENTIAL 2017 18 BONUS PAYOUTS FOR Threshold Target FINANCIALOBJECTIVES performance performance Maximum % of basic % of basic Bonus % of salary salary basic salary Consolidated profit before interest and taxation PBIT from Group companies 11.7% 17.5% 23.4% Consolidated adjusted earnings per share EPS 11.7% 17.5% 23.3% Consolidated net debt ""Net Debt"" 11.6% 17.5% 23.3% Element of bonus related to Group financial objectives 35.0% 52.5% 70.0% In the event that the Policy is not approved, then the maximum bonus amounts shown in Table 18 will be payable, in accordance with the 2014 policy, for achieving target performance and no bonus will be payable for any particular financial objective for which the target performance is not met."
The three measures listed in Table 18 will be defined consistently with 2016 17 see note iii to Table 1, and the Net Debt achievement for the year will be adjusted to ignore the impact of unbudgeted transactions with shareholders such as additional dividends or other distributions and for the impact of the currency translation effect on opening and closing debt balances.
The Committee is of the view that the values of the performance targets for the financial measures under the annual bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Company to disclose these before the end of the financial year.
The targets and achievements in respect of the year ending 28 April 2018 will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report.
The Committee is of the view that the performance targets for the individual business related objectives are commercially sensitive as they relate to internal management projects, strategic objectives and personal goals and it is not intended that these will be disclosed in advance.
50% of any actual bonus earned in the year would ordinarily be deferred as shares under the EPP.
page 64 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 65 Long-term incentives LTIP awards LTIP awards vest after three years subject to performance conditions.
A summary of the intended awards during the year ending 28 April 2018 and the nature of the performance conditions are provided in Table 19 below.
TABLE 19 INTENDED LTIP AWARDS Percentage of Face value of award award vesting for Length of at maximum vesting threshold Performance Award Type Performance metric % of 2017 18 salary achievement period Martin Griffiths Incentive Units TSR relative against FTSE 250 75% 25% 3 years Incentive Units Profitability targets 75% 25% 3 years Ross Paterson Incentive Units TSR relative against FTSE 250 75% 25% 3 years Incentive Units Profitability targets 75% 25% 3 years In all cases, LTIP awards will only vest subject to the achievement of the performance conditions and if the Committee determines that the underlying performance of the Company is sufficient to justify the vesting of awards.
Awards are generally made twice a year following the announcement of the annual results in June, and in December following the issue of the results for the half-year.
For 2017 18, however, the first tranche of LTIP awards will be made following and subject to the outcome of the shareholders vote on the Policy at the AGM on 25 August 2017.
The maximum level of awards granted for an individual in relation to any financial year is limited to Incentive Units with an aggregate face value at the time of award not exceeding 150% of basic salary.
The 2017 18 awards will be split one half based on TSR performance against a comparator group of the FTSE 250 companies, and the other half based on a measure of profitability.
For the TSR based awards, the TSR must exceed the median of the comparator group and the amount of Incentive Units awarded which are released will range from 25% to 100% of the available Incentive Units depending on the actual ranking.
Demanding profitability targets will be set for the other half of the awards based on relevant market factors and expectations for the Group as at the date of award and a sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis would be applied between these lower and upper vesting levels.
13.2 Implementation of non-executive directors remuneration policy Annual fees for 2017 18 The implementation of policy in relation to the Non-Executive Directors is in line with the current and proposed remuneration policy.
Each nonexecutive directors fee is set by the Board taking account of the views of each director, the specific responsibilities of each director and the fees for equivalent roles in similar companies.
The fees per annum for the Non-Executive Directors for 2016 17 and the amount set for 2017 18 are set out in Table 20 below.
TABLE 20 NON-ExECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES 2017 18 fees 2016 17 fees Chairman 217,400 213,100 Deputy chairman 153,000 150,000 Other non-executive directors range 52,500-60,900 52,500-59,700 Stagecoach Group plc | page 65
