Independent auditors report to the members of Stagecoach Group plc Company No.
SC100764 Our opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: Stagecoach Group plcs Consolidated financial statements the consolidated financial statements and separate financial statements of the parent the Company financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and Parent Companys affairs as at 29 April 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and the consolidated and Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited Stagecoach Group plcs financial statements comprise: Consolidated income statement Company balance sheet Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Company statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet statement of financial position Related notes 1 to 16 to the Company financial statements Consolidated statement of changes in equity.
Consolidated statement of cash flows Related notes 1 to 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Overview of our audit approach Risks of material misstatement Impairment and onerous contracts Adequacy of provision for insurance claims Accounting for pension liabilities Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles Liability for uncertain tax positions Audit scope We performed an audit of the complete financial information of eight components and audit procedures on specific balances for a further 14 components The components where we performed full or specific audit procedures accounted for 74% of adjusted profit before tax and 99% of Revenue Materiality Overall Group materiality of 7.0m which represents approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax PBT Stagecoach Group plc | page 67 145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:32 Page 68 10.
SC100764 continued Our assessment of risk of material misstatement We identified the risks of material misstatement described below as those that had the greatest effect on our overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and the direction of the efforts of the audit team.
In addressing these risks, we have performed the procedures below which were designed in the context of the consolidated financial statements as a whole and, consequently, we do not express any opinion on these individual areas.
Key observations communicated Risk Our response to the risk to the Audit Committee Impairment and onerous contracts In connection with Virgin Trains East Coast, We have concluded that the Virgin with the involvement of our rail specialists, we: Trains East Coast onerous contract We specifically focused on the update to the onerous provision representing Understood and challenged the methodology contract assessment on Virgin Trains East Coast as a managements best estimate of applied by management to assess whether the result of the profitability being less than that forecast 84.1m is materially correct, that contract is onerous, discussing with senior rail by the Group at the time of its bid for the franchise.
managements judgements in relation personnel.
The significant risk relates to the adequacy of the level to underlying assumptions are Read the underlying franchise agreement to of provision given the significant judgement involved appropriate and that related understand relevant terms and conditions.
in assessing the financial impact of managements disclosures are appropriate.
Challenged the underlying model assumptions assumptions around the application of contractual We concluded that the recognition of by sensitising the model, the most significant terms and future performance.
a 44.8m impairment of intangible of which were future revenue growth Refer to the Audit Committee Report Section 5.4.
1 assets associated with the right to assumptions and the application of contract operate the franchise was and notes 1 and 23 of the consolidated financial terms, and changes from prior year.
We tested managements calculation of the We concur with the classification of onerous contract provision to ensure its both of the above items as measurement is in accordance with IAS 37 exceptional items.
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and We are satisfied with the adequacy of Contingent Assets.
disclosure within the financial We reviewed correspondence with the UK statements.
Department for Transport to understand the current status of contractual negotiations.
We considered the impact of the onerous contract on the recoverability of Virgin Trains East Coast assets.
We assessed whether the classification of the impact of the onerous contract as an exceptional item was in accordance with the Groups policy.
We assessed the adequacy of disclosure within the financial statements.
We gained an understanding of the key We have concluded that the insurance Adequacy of provision for insurance claims controls and processes in place to assess provision is materially correct.
The Group makes provision for amounts payable on claims and related provisions.
We are satisfied with the adequacy of individual claims.
The majority of these claims relate We challenged management over the accuracy disclosure within the financial to UK Bus and North America.
of provision level by reference to recent statements.
As at 29 April 2017 the Group had recognised settlement experience on comparable claims.
insurance provisions amounting to 156.8m 2016: We assessed the reasonableness of the 148.6m.
methodology and assumptions contained The significant risk relates to the appropriateness of within the independent actuarial estimate in the level of provision given the significant judgement respect of UK Bus and North America through involved.
involvement of our actuarial specialists.
In doing so we compared against standard Refer to the Audit Committee Report Section 5.4.
1 actuarial approaches to ensure the and note 23 of the consolidated financial statements.
We have evaluated the competence, capabilities and objectivity of managements specialists.
We reviewed and assessed the appropriateness of managements risk adjustments to arrive at the recorded provision.
page 68 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:32 Page 69 Key observations communicated Our response to the risk Risk to the Audit Committee Accounting for pension liabilities We gained an understanding of the key We have concluded that the pension controls and processes in place to assess the liability is materially correct and that The Group makes provision for the net pension appropriateness of actuarial assumptions.
managements judgements in relation liabilities of its defined benefit pension schemes.
to underlying actuarial assumptions We tested input payroll data used to calculate As at 29 April 2017 the Group had recognised a net are appropriate.
We are satisfied with the adequacy of We considered the reasonableness and The significant risk relates to the potential disclosure within the financial consistency of the methodology used to misstatement of the pension liability due to the statements.
calculate the pension liabilities through significant judgements being exercised by involvement of our actuarial specialists.
management in determining the appropriate We challenged key actuarial assumptions with underlying actuarial assumptions.
the assistance of our actuarial specialists to Relatively small movements in the assumptions determine whether they were within an applied can result in a material impact to the financial acceptable range using a number of differing statements and may be influenced by the outcome of IFRS compliant valuation methodologies.
We have evaluated the competence, Refer to the Audit Committee Report Section 5.4.
1 capabilities and objectivity of managements specialists.
and notes 1 and 24 of the consolidated financial statements.
We assessed the adequacy of disclosures within the financial statements.
We gained an understanding of the key We have concluded that the goodwill Carrying value of goodwill and intangibles controls and processes in place over and intangible assets balances are The Group carries out an annual impairment review in managements impairment testing.
connection with the carrying value of its goodwill.
We assessed the appropriateness of the Cash We are satisfied with the adequacy of As at 29 April 2017 the Group carried goodwill Generating Units CGUs identified by disclosure within the financial amounting to 148.2m 2016: 136.9m and other management to be tested for impairment.
We assessed the reasonableness of the The significant risk arises because of the significance of methodology used to calculate value in use the goodwill to the financial statements and the level through involvement of our valuation of management judgement required in estimating specialists.
future cash flows and the appropriate growth and We corroborated key assumptions being future discount rates.
cash flows, growth and discount rates and We specifically focused on North America where challenged their reasonableness using our trading at the megabus.
com inter-city coach services valuation specialists.
remained challenging due to heightened car and air We considered the reasonableness of competition as a result of the effects of sustained managements sensitivity analysis showing the lower fuel prices.
impact of a reasonably possible change in impairment assumptions.
In addition, the Group carries out impairment reviews of other intangible assets when indicators of We performed procedures to identify any impairment are identified.
additional indicators of impairment for other intangibles by assessing whether the relevant Refer to the Audit Committee Report Section 5.4.
1 assets continue to be used by the entity.
and notes 1 and 10 of the consolidated financial We assessed the adequacy of disclosures statements.
Liability for uncertain tax positions We gained an understanding of the Groups We have concluded that managements process for determining liabilities for tax and judgements in relation to the The Group recognises a liability for corporate taxes calculating the tax charge for the overall recognition of liabilities for uncertain due on the taxable profits generated in the year.
The Group, including the tax proof.
Group has recognised a liability in respect of uncertain tax positions.
We involved our tax specialists, including in US We are satisfied with the adequacy of specialists for US specific matters, in all areas disclosure within the financial As at 29 April 2017 the Group had recognised overall of the tax audit to assist with the evaluation statements.
and challenge of the assumptions and The significant risk relates to the adequacy of the level estimates in relation to the level of liability of provision given the significant judgement involved.
recognised for significant tax risks.
Refer to the Audit Committee Report Section 5.4.
1 We agreed underlying tax balances to and note 7 of the consolidated financial statements.
supporting documentation, including correspondence with tax authorities.
We have also challenged the appropriateness of managements assumptions with regard to the recoverability of deferred tax assets.
The risks identified above are substantially the same as those identified last year.
SC100764 continued The scope of our audit Our assessment of audit risk, our evaluation of materiality and our allocation of performance materiality determine our audit scope for each entity within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to form an opinion on the consolidated financial statements.
We take into account size, risk profile, the organisation of the Group and effectiveness of Group-wide controls, changes in the business environment and other factors such as recent Internal Audit results when assessing the level of work to be performed at each entity.
In assessing the risk of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements, and to ensure we had adequate quantitative coverage of significant accounts in the financial statements, of the 51 reporting components of the Group, excluding the parent entity, we selected 22 components covering entities within the UK Rail, UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London and North America business areas, which represent the principal business units within the Group.
Of the 22 components selected, we performed an audit of the complete financial information of 8 components full scope components which were selected based on their size or risk characteristics and comprised three rail operating companies, three UK Bus regional operations components, North America and the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
For the remaining 14 components specific scope components, comprising 12 UK Bus regional operations components and two UK Bus London components, we performed audit procedures on specific accounts within each component that we considered had the potential for the greatest impact on the significant accounts in the consolidated financial statements either because of the size of these accounts or their risk profile.
The reporting components where we performed audit procedures were: Components Percentage of PBT Percentage of Revenue Full Scope 8 83 78 Specific Scope 14 66 21 22 149 99 Parent and consolidation adjustments 75 Overall coverage 74 99 The audit work on all in scope reporting units, with the exception of Virgin Rail Group, was performed directly by the Group engagement team.
We also communicated with a firm outside of the EY network of firms with respect to the audit of the complete financial information of the Virgin Rail Group joint venture.
The Group engagement team held meetings and calls with the Virgin Rail Group auditors to clarify and discuss their audit approach, materiality and our reporting requirements.
In addition, we had meetings and calls with them as their audit work progressed so that we could effectively supervise, direct and understand the findings from their work.
Of the remaining 29 components, none are individually greater than 5% of the Groups adjusted profit before tax.
For these components, we performed other procedures, including analytical review, intercompany eliminations and obtaining audit evidence to respond to any potential risks of material misstatement to the consolidated financial statements.
page 70 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:32 Page 71 Our application of materiality We apply the concept of materiality in planning and performing the audit, in evaluating the effect of identified misstatements on the audit and in forming our audit opinion.
Materiality Materiality is the magnitude of an omission or misstatement that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of the users of the financial statements.
Materiality provides a basis for determining the nature and extent of our audit procedures.
We determined materiality for the Group to be 7.0 million, which is approximately 5% of adjusted profit before tax of 141.9 million being reported profit before tax of 17.9 million adjusted to exclude net exceptional losses of 124.0 million as disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that adjusted profit before tax provides us with a consistent measure of underlying year on year performance as it excludes the impact of non-recurring items.
Performance materiality The application of materiality at the individual account or balance level.
It is set at an amount to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceeds materiality.
On the basis of our risk assessments, together with our assessment of the Groups overall control environment, our judgement was that performance materiality was 75% of our planning materiality, namely 5.3 million.
We have set performance materiality at this percentage following our assessment that there is an effective control environment and low expectation of misstatements.
Audit work at component locations for the purpose of obtaining audit coverage over significant financial statement accounts is undertaken based on a percentage of total performance materiality.
The performance materiality set for each component is based on the relative scale and risk of the component to the Group as a whole and our assessment of the risk of misstatement at that component.
The range of performance materiality allocated to components was 1.1m to 2.5m.
Reporting threshold An amount below which identified misstatements are considered as being clearly trivial.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all uncorrected audit differences in excess of 0.4m, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We evaluate any uncorrected misstatements against both the quantitative measures of materiality discussed above and in light of other relevant qualitative considerations in forming our opinion.
Scope of the audit of the consolidated financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 66, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
SC100764 continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic report and Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit the information given in the Corporate governance report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures and in compliance with rules 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority: is consistent with the financial statements: and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirement: based on the work undertaken during the course of the audit, rules 7.2.
7 in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook made by the Financial Conduct Authority with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies and their committees have been complied with if applicable.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We are required to report to you if, in our opinion, financial and nonWe have no exceptions to report.
ISAs UK and Ireland reporting financial information in the annual report is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report whether we have identified any inconsistencies between our knowledge acquired in the course of performing the audit and the Directors statement that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the entitys performance, business model and strategy: and whether the annual report appropriately addresses those matters that we communicated to the Audit Committee that we consider should have been disclosed.
Companies Act 2006 reporting In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its We have no exceptions to report.
environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have identified no material misstatements in the Strategic report, Directors report or in the Corporate governance report.
We are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
We are required to review: We have no exceptions to report.
Listing Rules review requirements the Directors statement in relation to going concern and longerterm viability, set out in section 3.11, and the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
page 72 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:32 Page 73 Statement on the Directors Assessment of the Principal Risks that Would Threaten the Solvency or Liquidity of the Entity We are required to give a statement as to whether we have anything We have nothing material to add ISAs UK and Ireland reporting material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: or to draw attention to.
the Directors confirmation in the annual report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the entity, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the annual report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the Directors statement in the financial statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of any material uncertainties to the entitys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: and the Directors explanation in the annual report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the entity, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the entity will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Signed on 28 June 2017 for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, Glasgow, by: Mark Harvey Senior statutory auditor Stagecoach Group plc | page 73
