145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:33 Page 138 Notes to the Company financial statements Note 1 Parent company accounting policies continued Share based payments The Company issues equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees of its subsidiary companies.
Share based payment awards made by the Company to employees of its subsidiary companies are recognised in the Companys financial statements as an increase in its investments in subsidiary undertakings rather than as an expense in the income statement to the extent that the amount is not recharged to each subsidiary company.
Equity-settled transactions The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted and is recognised as an expense or as an increase in investments in subsidiary undertakings over the vesting period.
In valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any non-market based vesting conditions and no expense or investment is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest as a result of a failure to satisfy a non-market based vesting condition.
None of the Companys equity-settled transactions have any market based performance conditions.
Fair value for equity-settled share based payments is determinable from the Companys quoted share price at the time of the award.
At each balance sheet date, before vesting, the cumulative expense or investment is calculated based on managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest taking into consideration the likelihood of achieving non-market based vesting conditions.
Cash-settled transactions The cost of cash-settled transactions is measured at fair value.
Fair value is estimated initially at the grant date and at each balance sheet date thereafter until the awards are settled.
Market based performance conditions are taken into account when determining fair value.
At each balance sheet date, the liability recognised is based on the fair value of outstanding awards ignoring non-market based vesting conditions at the balance sheet date, the period that fell prior to the balance sheet date and managements estimate of the likelihood and extent of non-market based vesting conditions being achieved.
Changes in the carrying amount of the liability are recognised in the income statement for the period.
Fair value for cash-settled share based payments relating to the Long Term Incentive Plan is estimated by use of a simulation model.
Choice of settlement The Company can choose to settle awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in cash.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan are accounted for as cash-settled transactions see above.
The Company can choose to settle awards under the Executive Participation Plan in either cash or equity, although it currently expects to settle all such awards in equity.
The awards under the Plan can also be structured as deferred shares or share options with a zero exercise price.
The Company intends the awards to operate in substance as deferred shares such that, subject to fulfilling the service condition, each participant receives actual shares on the applicable vesting date.
Awards under the Executive Participation Plan are accounted for as equity-settled transactions see above.
Dividends Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, in the period in which they are paid.
Financial instruments Financial instruments are accounted for in accordance with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement, and IFRS 7 Financial instruments:Disclosures which is the same as the accounting policy for the Group.
Therefore, for details of the Companys accounting policy for financial instruments refer to pages 85 to 87.
The Company holds derivative financial instruments that hedge financial risks of the Group as a whole and to which hedge accounting is applied in the consolidated financial statements.
However, these instruments are accounted in the Company financial statements at fair value through profit or loss.
Investment in own shares Own shares held by the Groups Employee Benefit Trust and Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust are treated as deductions from equity in the Companys financial statements.
Shares held in treasury by the Company have also been classified as deductions from equity.
Interest bearing loans and borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially as the proceeds received, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method: any difference between proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings.
The carrying value of borrowings takes account of accrued interest, issue costs and the effect of fair value hedges.
Retirement benefit obligations The Company has no employees and is therefore not liable for a share in any of the Group defined benefit schemes that are disclosed in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
It does have unfunded liabilities in respect of former employees and these are reflected in the balance sheet.
Note 2 Intangible assets 2017 The movements in intangible assets were as follows: m Cost At beginning and end of year 0.7 Accumulated amortisation At beginning of year 0.4 Amortisation charged to income statement 0.1 At end of year 0.5 Net book value at beginning of year 0.3 Net book value at end of year 0.2 page 138 | Stagecoach Group plc
