Audit Committee report reports from the external auditors.
It considers the scope and results of 5.1 Introduction from Gregor Alexander, the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements and the Chairman of the Audit Committee accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the Group.
As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present our Audit The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence and Committee report for the financial year ended 29 April 2017 in objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the describes how we have discharged our responsibilities under the Code Groups website at: and monitored the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoach-Group internal control systems and risk management.
pdf As part of the planned changes to the Boards composition, the The sections that follow set out the areas that the Committee focused on membership of the Audit Committee was refreshed during the year.
Will during and in respect of the year ended 29 April 2017.
Whitehorn ceased to be a member on October 2016 and I would like to thank him for his contribution to the Committee.
1 Financial Reporting I was pleased to welcome two new members to the Audit Committee with the appointment of Ray OToole and Julie Southern in October 2016, The Groups interim and preliminary financial results, as well as its and the Committee is already benefiting from the significant financial Annual Report, were reviewed and revised by the Audit Committee and specific sector insights that they bring.
before recommending their publication to the Board.
At each meeting, the Committee discussed with management how they had applied critical accounting policies and judgements to these documents, having considered reports from both the Groups management and the external auditors.
The external auditors attended all meetings of the Committee and presented audit plans and findings, amongst other matters.
In March 2017, the Group received a letter from the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Reporting Review team, which raised a number of Gregor Alexander queries following its review of the 2016 Annual Report.
The Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee assisted management in reviewing and drafting a response to 28 June 2017 the letter, which included commitments by the Group to provide additional information in the 2017 Annual Report.
The Corporate 5.2 Composition of the Audit Committee Reporting Review team has closed its enquiry.
A number of suggestions for improvements were noted, and these have been taken into account The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 4.9 of in preparing the 2017 Annual Report.
this Annual Report and this section 5.2 explains how we have addressed The Committee considered a number of issues and accounting the audit committee composition requirements of the UK Corporate judgements in respect of the financial statements for the year ended 29 Governance Code.
Gregor Alexander is the current Chairman of the Audit April 2017, of which it considered the most significant to be those set out Committee and is a Chartered Accountant.
Gregor is the Finance Director in the table on the following page.
of SSE plc, a FTSE 100 company, and is the designated Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition to the significant accounting judgements set out in the table, the Committee also considered other accounting and reporting matters The Committee as a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of in respect of the year ended 29 April 2017, including the following: audit, financial and commercial expertise, as well as competence relevant to the Groups industry sector.
Of particular note, are the Exceptional items The Committee considered the appropriateness of insights brought by Ray OToole during the year from his experience in the amounts disclosed as exceptional items in the financial statements other organisations involved in the bus and rail sectors.
and the adequacy of the disclosure related to such items.
The Committee is satisfied that the Groups approach is appropriate in this area.
5.3 Operation of the Audit Committee Rail franchise opportunities In light of the range of opportunities The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The Committee facing the Groups UK Rail Division and also the anticipated expiry of the retains discretion as to who from outside the Committee should attend Groups South West Trains franchise in August 2017, the Committee its meetings but generally invites the following to attend: considered whether any actual or anticipated changes in the commercial The Group Finance Director: terms or duration of rail franchises resulted in any changes in accounting estimates.
The Committee also considered the accounting The Group Financial Controller: for any costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise opportunities.
The The Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: Committee concluded that the accounting estimates in the consolidated Representatives from the external auditors: financial statements had been appropriately updated for such franchise Representatives from the Risk Assurance internal audit Function.
changes and that any costs incurred in pursuing rail franchise In addition, the Group Tax Director and Group Treasurer are expected to opportunities had been appropriately accounted for.
present to the Committee at least annually.
The Committee may also The Audit Committee also reviewed the evidence that supported the invite other directors of the Company to attend meetings of the conclusions that the Group remains a going concern and that the Board Committee and does so from time to time.
has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 2 May 2020, noting it was consistent with the disclosure given in section 3.11 of 5.4 Activities of the Audit Committee this Annual Report.
The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the outsourced Risk Assurance Function internal audit.
It also receives page 42 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 43 Significant issues or judgements Work and conclusion of Audit Quantification Relevant notes to the considered by Audit Committee Committee consolidated financial statements Pensions The determination of the Groups The Committee considered the appropriateness The total pensions expense 6, 24 pension benefit obligation and of pension assumptions by receiving reports recognised in the expense for defined benefit pension from management outlining the basis of the consolidated income schemes is dependent on the assumptions used, comparing these assumptions statement for the year selection by the Directors of certain to those applied by other companies operating ended 29 April 2017 was assumptions used by actuaries in in the same sector as the Group as well as by 95.2m 2016: 106.7m calculating such amounts.
Those listed companies more generally, considering and the net retirement assumptions include the discount rate, advice from external actuaries and considering benefit liability as at annual rate of increase in future salary analysis undertaken by the external auditors.
29 April 2017 was 232.5m levels and mortality rates.
The Committee noted that there was a range of 2016: 96.7m.
In note 24 acceptable assumptions but concluded that the to the consolidated financial assumptions applied were appropriate.
statements, analysis is provided that shows the sensitivity of pension amounts to changes in key assumptions.
Insurance The estimation of the insurance The Committee discussed with management the The insurance provision in 23 provision in respect of traffic accidents key judgements made in determining the the consolidated balance and employee incidents is based on an insurance provision, challenging the sheet as at 29 April 2017 assessment of the expected methodology used, and understanding the was 156.8m 2016: settlement on known claims together extent to which estimates are supported by 148.6m.
with an estimate of settlements that third party actuarial advice and analysis will be made in respect of incidents provided by the external auditors.
The occurring prior to the balance sheet Committee noted that there was a range of date but for which claims have not acceptable estimates for the year-end insurance been reported to the Group.
provision and after challenge, concluded that the amount of the insurance provision was at an appropriate point within that range.
Taxation Estimation of the tax charge requires The Committee considered the judgements The consolidated tax credit 7 an assessment to be made of the made in respect of tax by reviewing reports for the year ended 29 April potential tax consequences of from management outlining the basis of the 2017 was 0.2m 2016: certain items that will only be assumptions, challenging the estimates formed 5.4m charge.
resolved when agreed by the and considering the extent to which third party The net consolidated tax relevant tax authorities.
professional advice and or historical experience liability as at 29 April 2017 informed the judgements.
The Committee met was 21.9m 2016: with the Groups Tax Director, the Group Tax 58.8m.
Further Manager and a tax specialist from the external information on uncertain auditors in April 2017.
The specific tax tax estimates is provided in accounting judgements considered by the section 1.6.
4 of this Annual Committee included the financing of and Report.
transactions with overseas i. e. non-UK operations, losses incurred by overseas operations in the ordinary course of business and overseas tax audits.
The Committee concluded that appropriate judgements had been made in determining the tax amounts recorded in the financial statements.
Impairment and onerous contracts The Groups critical accounting For those businesses where trading conditions Pre-tax exceptional charges 4, 23 policies described in note 1 to the have been more challenging than previously of 84.1m and 44.8m consolidated financial statements, expected, in particular Virgin Trains East Coast, respectively were recognised include goodwill and impairment: the Committee assessed whether any assets for the year ended 29 April and onerous contracts.
were impaired and whether any contracts had 2017 to reflect that the become onerous.
current contractual A number of the Groups UK arrangements give rise to an businesses have experienced more The Committee considered the judgements onerous contract at Virgin challenging trading conditions over made by management in undertaking Trains East Coast, and the recent years.
The Committee impairment and onerous contract reviews and related impairment of therefore focused on whether any challenged the assumptions on matters such as certain intangible assets impairment losses and or onerous future cash flows, growth rates, tax rates and associated with the right to contract provisions arose in respect discount rates.
It also considered the key operate the franchise.
judgements exercised by management over the expected outcomes of contractual positions on the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise.
The Committee agreed with managements judgement that the Virgin Trains East Coast franchise onerous contract provision for 84.1m should be recognised as a pre-tax exceptional charge.
Having recognised an onerous contract provision for the franchise, the Committee concurs with managements judgement that certain intangible assets associated with the right to operate the franchise are therefore also impaired, and require a separate exceptional charge of 44.8m to accelerate the amortisation on these assets.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 43 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 44 Audit Committee report 5.4.
3 Non-Audit services In May 2014, the European Commission published a directive amending Following the external tender undertaken in the prior year, Ernst & Young the Statutory Audit Directive and a new Audit Regulation.
The new Audit was appointed as the Groups external auditor at the Annual General Regulation has the direct effect of law and European Union member Meeting in August 2016.
Mark Harvey, who was appointed in August 2016, states, including the UK, are required to adopt provisions to ensure its is the current audit engagement partner, and under partner rotation rules, effective application.
The new Audit Regulation stipulates that a a new lead audit partner will be required in 2022.
In accordance with the statutory auditor of a public-interest entity, which would include the 2014 Code, the Group will be expected to tender the external audit by Company, shall not provide certain non-audit services to that entity, its 2026. parent undertaking and or its subsidiary undertakings within the The external auditors presented a detailed audit plan to the Committee, European Union.
The Companys auditors will therefore be prohibited setting out their analysis of significant audit risks and key judgemental from providing certain non-audit services to the Group that were not accounting matters, which would inform their planned scope and approach previously prohibited.
The new requirements shall first apply to the to the current year audit.
For the year ended 29 April 2017, the most Group in respect of its financial year ending 28 April 2018. significant risks identified were in relation to provisioning for insurance Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are in claims, taxation, carrying value of goodwill and intangibles, pensions place to safeguard audit objectivity and independence.
The Groups accounting and rail franchise contract compliance, based on the inherent policies on non-audit services are set by the Audit Committee and are level of management judgement required in these areas.
These risks are currently: monitored through the year and the Committee challenged the work done General The auditors are not permitted to provide any non-audit by the auditors to test managements assumptions and estimates.
services that they would be prohibited by law from providing due to Private meetings were held with the external auditors at each Committee either the nature of the services or the level of the fee for the meeting without the presence of management.
also holds discussions with the external auditors between Committee Audit related services These are services that the auditors must meetings.
undertake or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as The Audit Committee is responsible for agreeing the audit engagement auditors.
Such services include formalities relating to bank financing, letter, agreeing the scope of the audit, appointing the audit partner and regulatory reports, and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment and would generally provide all such services, subject to any legal remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of restrictions.
disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each external auditors.
specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the skills and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship advisors for tax consulting and prior to July 2016, the Group would between the Group and the auditors.
This review includes: consider using the auditors for tax consulting where they were best the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance suited to the work being undertaken.
It is now the Groups policy not approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are to use the auditors for such work.
payable to auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: an advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements for general consulting, including the auditors where they are best which have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one suited to the work being undertaken and subject to any legal audit firm or offices of the same firm are involved: and restrictions.
discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
The auditors are only permitted to provide non-audit services to the The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit Group when the Audit Committee and the auditors are satisfied that process on an annual basis in the context of the wider assurance there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the audit processes across the Group.
As well as undertaking its own assessment teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be of the audit effectiveness, the Committee also considers the views of a effectively safeguarded.
number of finance managers from various parts of the Group.
The In addition to the audit fee, the external auditor received non-audit auditor assessment questionnaire is completed on an annual basis and related fees of 0.1m 2016: 0.2m, which equate to 7.7% 2016: 19.2% examines three main performance criteria robustness of the audit of the audit fee and further details of which can be found in note 3 to the process, quality of delivery and quality of people and service.
assessment also includes consideration of the auditors independence The Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services and objectivity, taking into account relevant laws, regulations and does not impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear professional requirements.
The assessment involves considering all benefit obtained from using professional advisors who have a good relationships between the Group and the auditors, including the nature understanding of the Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting and quantum of non-audit services.
Assurances are obtained from the firms have been used where the Group recognises them as having auditors that they and their staff have no financial, business, particular areas of expertise or where potential conflicts of interest for the employment, family or other personal relationship with the Group that auditors are identified.
The Committee will, however, of course review its could affect the auditors independence and objectivity, taking account policy on non-audit services from time to time, to ensure continued of relevant ethical standards.
The auditors explain to the Audit compliance with laws and regulations, including European Union Committee their policies and processes for maintaining independence legislation.
and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements.
The Group has complied with the Statutory Audit Services for Large 5.4.
4 Internal auditors Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Following the tender undertaken last year,  Processes and Audit Committee Responsibility Order 2014 during the assumed responsibility for managing the outsourced Risk Assurance year.
Function internal auditors effective from September 2016.
The The Committee considered the audit fee of 0.9m 2016: 0.9m for the Committee has received several reports from , external auditor appropriate and concluded that an effective audit can detailing the planned schedule of audits as well as tracking key findings be conducted for such a fee.
and any related material actions to address unsatisfactory results.
Having completed the assessment of both the external audit process and  attended all meetings of the Committee, in addition to meeting privately with the Committee without the presence the external auditor for the year ended 29 April 2017, a resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Groups auditor will be put to the of management.
The Audit Committee reviews the internal audit plan at least annually and considers whether it is aligned to the key risks of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee also has the responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function.
There have been no page 44 | Stagecoach Group plc 145376 STC Front PRINT CIO 145376 STC Front V13 06 07 2017 17:29 Page 45 instances of disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee The Board annually reviews and approves the Groups budget and is relating to the Risk Assurance Function.
updated at least twice a year on an updated forecast of financial performance for the year: The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the Risk Assurance Function on an annual basis and seeks to satisfy itself that the quality, The Audit Committee receives updates on developments in accounting expertise and experience of the function is appropriate for the Group.
standards and other relevant laws and regulations: This assessment involves both Audit Committee members and members The Audit Committee receives updates on key areas such as treasury, of the management team completing a questionnaire with the results of taxation and audit: that exercise then considered by the Committee.
This assessment The Audit Committee and the Board generally have the opportunity to includes a consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level consider, comment and request changes to the Annual Report prior to of fees, the quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the publication: function in the context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
The preparation of the front end of the Annual Report includes the 5.4.
5 Code of Conduct and Speaking Up Policy Corporate Communications team, the Company Secretariat, and Group The Audit Committee reviews compliance with the Groups Code of Finance as well as divisional management validating the Conduct and use of the Groups Speaking Up policy, which provides a appropriateness of the material relating to the relevant division.
The mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the conduct of involvement of these various groups helps ensure the balance, the Group or its employees to report those concerns.
The Committee completeness and accuracy of the front end: ensures that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors, the proportionately upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee internal auditors and management in respect of various matters takes a particular interest in any reports of possible improprieties in including the financial statements: financial reporting.
The external auditors report on whether the fair, balanced and All known instances of fraud, theft or similar irregularities affecting the understandable statement is materially consistent with their Group were reported to and considered by the Committee, although knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing their there were no such matters that were sufficiently material to merit audit.
disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee also received and considered updates on litigation involving the Group.
The Audit Committees assessment considered whether: Appropriate weight had been given to bad news as well as good 5.4.
6 Other activities news in the Annual Report: The Committee has considered a range of other matters at its three The description of the business, principal risks and uncertainties, meetings over the last year and received various reports and strategy and objectives in the Annual Report was consistent with the presentations as follows: Boards understanding: A presentation was received from the Group Tax Director and the Group The principal risks and uncertainties were consistent with the Group Tax Manager on the Groups tax affairs, significant tax accounting risk register: judgements and tax risks.
The Group Treasury team gave a presentation on the Groups treasury affairs and management of treasury risks.
The Annual Report was presented in an understandable way.
The Audit Committee also noted the established internal control and risk The Committee considered and contributed to a response to a letter management systems in relation to the process for preparing consolidated received from the Financial Reporting Councils Corporate Reporting financial statements, including those matters detailed in section 4.14 of Review team on the 2016 Annual Report.
As part of the Committees ongoing training and development, both management and the external auditors updated the Committee on developments in accounting standards, auditing standards, the 5.5 Viability statement Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code, legislation The Audit Committee advised the Board on the statement on the Groups affecting the Group more generally and other relevant regulatory viability included in section 3.11 of this Annual Report, which was developments and guidance.
underpinned by the consideration of the following points: The Committee considered reports from the Audit Committee of Virgin The Audit Committee assessed the reasonableness of the assumptions Rail Group on matters relevant to that joint venture.
The Groups made about the Groups prospects, with reference to the strategy and risk appetite set by the Board: Finance Director is Chairman of the Virgin Rail Group Audit Committee.
Minutes of the Treasury Committee meetings comprising members of The Audit Committee identified which risks, including those described management were shared with the Audit Committee.
as principal risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report, could potentially impact the Boards assessment of the Groups viability: The Committee reviewed a summary of the Directors expense claims.
The Audit Committee reviewed the length of the assessment period: The Audit Committee examined the stress testing of financial forecasts, 5.4.
7 Fair, Balanced and Understandable the potential effectiveness of mitigating actions, and consideration of The Audit Committee advised the Board on whether it considers the the Groups ability to withstand the severe but plausible downside Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, scenarios modelled.
balanced and understandable and to provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business A draft of the viability statement was presented to the Audit Committee model and strategy.
The Committee assessed the controls and processes and Board in June 2017 for review and finalisation.
in place in respect of the production of the Annual Report and financial statements as operating effectively during the year, and was able to 5.6 Committee evaluation provide positive assurance to the Board on the fair, balanced and The Committees activities formed part of the external review of Board understandable conclusion.
effectiveness performed in the year.
Details of this review are provided in In advising the Board, the Audit Committee noted that: section 4.8.
Audit Committee members also completed a separate The Board considers the key risks facing the Group and the Audit questionnaire on the effectiveness of the Committee and the results of Committee considered how these link to the description of principal that exercise were considered by the Committee.
Overall, the Committee risks and uncertainties in the Annual Report: considers that it has continued to operate effectively during the year.
The Board considers the strategy of the Group and its short and longterm objectives: The Board receives regular updates on the actual financial performance of the Group and significant developments affecting the Group: The Board receives summaries of significant media coverage relevant to the Group: Stagecoach Group plc | page 45
