145376 STC Back PRINT CIO 145376 STC Back V13 06 07 2017 17:32 Page 79 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1 IFRS accounting policies These consolidated financial statements are presented in respect of the group of companies headed by Stagecoach Group plc.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited liability company limited by shares.
It is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its registered number is 100764 and its registered address is 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth, Perthshire, PH1 5TW.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC interpretations as adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by i the revaluation of available for sale financial assets and ii financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, the presentation currency of the Group, and the functional currency of the Company.
All values are rounded to the nearest one hundred thousand 0.1m except where otherwise indicated.
As intimated in our 2016 Annual Report, the Group now reports its annual results based on a financial year ending on the Saturday nearest to 30 April.
This report therefore sets out the Groups results for the period from 1 May 2016 to 29 April 2017.
New accounting standards adopted during the year The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2016: Amendments to IFRS 5, Annual improvements project Amendments to IFRS 7, Annual improvements project Amendments to IFRS 10, 12 and IAS 28, Investment Entities: Applying the consolidation exception Amendments to IFRS 11, Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38, Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41, Amendment to bring bearer plants into the scope Amendments to IAS 19, Annual improvements project None of these have materially impacted the consolidated financial statements of the Group.
New standards and interpretations not applied The International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements: International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual periods beginning on or after Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate Deferred indefinitely or joint venture Amendments to IFRS 2 Clarification of classification and measurement of share based 1 January 2018 payment transactions Amendments to IFRS 4 and IFRS 9 Amendments regarding the interaction of IFRS 4 and IFRS 9 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 Financial instruments: Hedge accounting 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 17 Insurance contracts 1 January 2021 Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 Cycle 1 January 2018 Amendments to IAS 7 Amendments as a result of the Disclosure Initiative 1 January 2017 Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 1 January 2017 IAS 40 Amendments to clarify transfers of property to, or from, investment property 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration 1 January 2018 IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019 Not yet adopted for use in the European Union.
The Directors expect the application of IFRS 16 to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
In particular, the accounting for the Groups substantial rolling stock operating lease commitments will be affected by the application of the new standard.
IFRS 16 eliminates the classification of leases as either operating leases or finance leases and, instead, introduces a single lessee accounting model.
Applying that model, a lessee is required to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases with a term of more than 12 months, unless the underlying asset is of low value: and depreciation of lease assets separately from interest.
On adopting IFRS 16, the Group expects to recognise substantial new assets and new liabilities in respect of those leases currently classified as operating leases.
The Directors do not expect IFRS 15 to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
In both our rail and bus divisions our contracted customers are easily recognised, performance obligations are clear and transaction prices are even over the period to which they relate and are time apportioned.
However, our detailed assessment of IFRS 15 is ongoing.
The Directors have reviewed the requirements of the remaining standards and interpretations listed above and they are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements in the period of initial application.
