FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES Corporate information AVEVA Group plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered office is given on page 123.
AVEVA Group plcs shares are publicly traded on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Basis of preparation The accounting policies which follow set out those policies which apply in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand 000 except when otherwise indicated.
The Group presents a non-GAAP performance measure on the face of the Consolidated income statement.
The Directors believe that the adjusted profit before tax and adjusted diluted and basic earnings per share measures presented provide a reliable and consistent presentation of the underlying performance of the Group.
Adjusted profit is not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with the adjusted profit measures of other companies.
The business is managed and measured on a day-to-day basis using adjusted results.
To arrive at adjusted results, certain adjustments are made for normalised and exceptional items that are individually important and which could, if included, distort the understanding of the performance for the year and the comparability between periods.
Normalised items These are recurring items which management considers to have a distorting effect on the underlying results of the Group, and are non-cash items.
These items relate to amortisation of intangibles excluding other software, share-based payment charges and fair value adjustments on financial derivatives, although other types of recurring items may arise.
Recurring items are adjusted each year irrespective of materiality to ensure consistent treatment.
Exceptional items These are items which are non-recurring and are identified by virtue of either their size or their nature.
These items can include, but are not restricted to, the costs of significant restructuring exercises, fees associated with business combinations and costs incurred in integrating acquired companies.
In the prior year deferred revenue was presented as part of the line item trade and other payables: in the current year deferred revenue is presented as a separate line item on the balance sheet.
The prior year item trade and other payables therefore decreased by the amount of deferred revenue of 46,874,000.
Statement of compliance The Consolidated financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and all its subsidiaries the Group have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, as they apply to the financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Groups financial statements are also consistent with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
The parent Company financial statements of AVEVA Group plc have been prepared under the FRS 101 reduced disclosure framework and are included on pages 107 to 111.
Basis of consolidation The Consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of AVEVA Group plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 March each year.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared using existing GAAP for each country of operation.
Adjustments are made to translate any differences that may exist between the respective local GAAP and IFRSs.
Inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from intra-Group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is obtained by the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
On acquisition, assets and liabilities of subsidiaries are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition, with any excess of the cost of acquisition over this value being capitalised as goodwill.
Adoption of new and revised standards The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year.
New standards and interpretations which came into force during the year did not have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 114 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED New standards and interpretations not yet effective The IASB have issued the following standards although in some cases not yet adopted by the EU which are expected to have implications for the reporting of the financial position or performance of the Group or which will require additional disclosures in future financial years: Effective for periods commencing after IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 IFRS 2 Amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based payment transactions IAS 7 Amendments Disclosure initiative IAS 12 Amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for unrealised losses IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Amendments Sales or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or 1 January 2019 Joint Venture The Group intends to adopt these standards in the first accounting period after the effective date.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as noted below: IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 prescribes a principles-based approach to accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers, as well as additional reporting disclosures.
The standard supersedes IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and several revenuerelated interpretations.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers outlines a single comprehensive five-step model to account for how revenue as goods or services are transferred to customers.
Furthermore, it provides new guidance on whether revenue should be recognised at a point in time or over time and, more specifically, includes guidance on revenue from licensing arrangements.
IFRS 15 must be applied for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It is endorsed by the EU except for the Clarifications to IFRS 15 issued by the IASB in April 2016.
The Company plans to adopt IFRS 15 in its consolidated financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019, using the full retrospective approach.
The Company has completed an initial assessment of the potential impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 on its consolidated financial statements.
The main aspects of the assessment are outlined below: i Rendering of services transfer of control Revenue from sales of initial licences and the initial software delivery element of rental licences is currently recognised upon delivery.
Delivery occurs when the customer has access to the intellectual property described in the contract.
In some limited circumstances, under the current policy, AVEVA may recognise revenue from a licence agreement rateably over the contract period.
This assessment is based on whether AVEVA can reliably estimate the maintenance and support element of the contract.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of the services.
All distinct performance obligations relating to licences for software are transferred to the customer at a point in time.
Therefore, under IFRS 15, all revenue from software licences which are distinct performance obligations will be recognised at a point in time and not over time.
Based on the initial assessment, and in the absence of an uptake in AVEVAs Cloud offerings, the Company does not anticipate material differences between the current policy and the requirement under IFRS 15 to recognise software licences at a point in time.
ii Stand-alone selling prices Revenue from contracts with  components multiple-element arrangements are currently recognised based on the relative fair value of the components.
Under IFRS 15, the total consideration of a customer arrangement will be allocated based on their relative stand-alone selling prices.
Stand-alone selling prices are determined based on list prices with standard discounts where appropriate, the adjusted market assessment approach and the residual approach.
The Company has performed an initial comparison of the fair value approach under IAS 18 and the stand-alone selling prices under IFRS 15.
Based on the initial assessment, these amounts are broadly the same, therefore the Company at this stage does not anticipate material differences in the revenue recognition based on stand-alone selling prices.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115 iii Providing extended payment terms to customers Under IAS 18, where AVEVA provides a customer with extended payment terms, the revenue is deferred until the consideration is due in accordance with the contract.
Under IFRS 15, all the contractual payments are included in the transaction price and allocated to the performance obligations at the start of the contract.
Based on the initial assessment, the Company has identified a potential impact on revenues for a limited number of contracts which, under IFRS 15, could be recognised in the Income Statement at an earlier point in time rather than deferring recognition until the stage payments are invoiced.
The Company is currently performing a detailed analysis on a contract-by-contract basis to assess the related impact.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 31 March 2020, not yet endorsed by the EU will require all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet.
Currently, IAS 17 Leases only requires leases categorised as finance leases to be recognised on the balance sheet, with leases categorised as operating leases not recognised.
Lessees will recognise a right of use asset and a corresponding liability on the balance sheet.
The asset will be amortised over the length of the lease and the liability measured at amortised cost.
It is currently not practicable to quantify the effect at the date of the publication of these financial statements.
Existing operating lease commitments are set out in note 22.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until a detailed review has been completed.
Significant accounting estimates The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: Retirement benefit obligations The determination of the Groups obligations and expense for defined benefit pensions is dependent on the selection, by the Board of Directors, of assumptions used by the pension scheme actuary in calculating these amounts.
The assumptions applied, together with sensitivity analysis, are described in note 25 and include, amongst others, the discount rate, the inflation rate, rates of increase in salaries and mortality rates.
While the Directors consider that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in the actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the reported amount of the Groups future pension obligations, actuarial gains and losses included in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in future years and the future staff costs.
The net carrying amount of retirement benefit obligations at 31 March 2017 was 3,810,000 2016 5,162,000.
This year for the first time there is also a net surplus on the UK defined benefit scheme of 1,222,000 2016 nil.
Provision for impairment of receivables The Group makes provision for the impairment of receivables on a customer-specific basis.
The determination of the appropriate level of provision involves an estimate of the potential risk of default or non-payment by the Groups customers and management consider a number of factors, including the financial strength of the customers, the level of default that the Group has suffered in the past, the age of the receivable outstanding and the Groups trading experience with that customer.
The provision for impairment of receivables at 31 March 2017 was 6,054,000 2016 5,879,000.
Revenue recognition The assessments and estimates used by the Group for revenue recognition could have a significant impact on the amount and timing of revenue recognised.
Revenue from sales of software licences when these are combined with the delivery of significant implementation or customisation services is recognised in line with the delivery of the services to the customer.
This policy involves the assessment of which customer projects include significant customisation or implementation and also an assessment of the stage of completion of such projects.
The fair value estimate of the element of a customer rental fee attributable to the continuing right to use, and to customer support and maintenance, is reviewed periodically.
On average, the element attributable to customer support and maintenance as a proportion of the initial software delivery is 17%.
A 1% deviation in this percentage would not lead to a material change in revenue.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 116 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Intangible assets IFRS 3 requires the identification of acquired intangible assets as part of a business combination.
The methods used to value such intangible assets require the use of estimates including forecast performance and customer attrition rates.
Future results are impacted by the amortisation periods adopted and changes to the estimated useful lives would result in different effects on the income statement.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment.
Tests for impairment are based on discounted cash flows and assumptions including discount rates, timing and growth prospects which are inherently subjective.
Further details about the assumptions used are set out in note 14.
Revenue The Group generates its revenue principally from licensing the rights to use its software products directly to end users and to a lesser extent indirectly through resellers.
Revenue is measured at fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents the amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the ordinary course of business, net of discounts and sales taxes.
It comprises initial licence fees, annual fees and rental licence fees, together with income from consultancy and other related services.
For each revenue stream, revenue is not recognised unless and until: a clear contractual arrangement can be evidenced: delivery has been made in accordance with that contract: if required, contractual acceptance criteria have been met: and the fee has been agreed and collectability is probable.
Where extended payment terms beyond 90 days exist, appropriate approvals are obtained to ensure there is sufficient comfort that collectability is probable and the fee is determinable.
If approvals are not obtained, revenue recognition is deferred until payment is due.
Initial annual licence agreements Users are charged an initial licence fee upon installation for a set number of users together with an obligatory annual fee, which is charged every year.
Annual fees consist of the continuing right to use and customer support and maintenance, which includes core product upgrades and enhancements, and remote support services.
Users must continue to pay annual fees in order to maintain the right to use the software.
Initial licence fees are recognised once the above conditions have been met.
Annual fees are recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract, which is typically 12 months.
If annual fees are charged at a discount, an amount is allocated out of the initial licence fee at fair market value based on the value established when annual fees are charged separately to customers.
Rental licence agreements As an alternative to the initial licence fee plus annual fee model, the Group also supplies its software under three different types of rental licence agreement.
Rental licence fees which are invoiced monthly and which are cancellable by the customer are recognised on a monthly basis.
Other rental licence agreements are invoiced at the start of the contracted period, which is typically one year, are noncancellable and consist of two separate components: the initial software delivery, and the continuing right to use with customer support and maintenance.
Revenue in respect of the continuing right to use and customer support and maintenance element is valued at fair market value based on the value established when annual fees are charged separately to the customer.
This component is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
The residual amount representing the implied initial fee element is recognised upfront, provided all of the above criteria have been met.
Where uncertainty exists and it is not possible to reliably determine the fair value of the customer support and maintenance element, all revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis over the period of the contract.
The Group also licenses its software using a token licensing model.
Under this model, a basket of tokens representing licences to use different software products over a defined period is granted, which enables the customer to draw these down as and when required.
Where the customer commits in advance to a specified number of tokens over a defined period, a proportion of revenue is recognised with an appropriate element deferred for customer support and maintenance obligations, subject to the above recognition conditions being met.
Where the customer is charged in arrears, revenue is recognised based on the actual number of tokens used.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117 Services Services consist primarily of consultancy, implementation services and training and are performed under separate service arrangements.
Revenue from these services is recognised as the services are performed and stage of completion is determined by reference to the costs incurred as a proportion of the total estimated costs of the service project.
If a contract cannot be reliably estimated, revenue is recognised only to the extent that costs have been incurred.
Provision is made as soon as a loss is foreseen.
If an arrangement includes both licence and service elements, licence fee revenue is recognised upon delivery of the software provided that services do not include significant customisation or modification of the base product and the payment terms for licences are not subject to acceptance criteria.
In all other cases, revenues from both licence and service elements are recognised as services are performed.
Foreign currencies The functional and presentational currency of AVEVA Group plc is Pounds Sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All differences are taken to the Consolidated income statement.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate as at the date of the initial transaction.
The subsidiaries have a number of different functional currencies.
As at the reporting date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into Pounds Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, and their income statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation are taken directly to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Goodwill Goodwill on acquisitions is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the acquirers interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
If the potential benefit of tax losses or other deferred tax assets does not satisfy the criteria in IFRS 3 for separate recognition when a business combination is initially accounted for but is subsequently realised, the Group recognises the deferred tax income in the Consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and from a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, the cost model is applied to each class of intangible asset as set out below.
Expenditure on internally developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is taken to the Consolidated income statement in the year in which it is incurred.
Internal software development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset only after its technical feasibility and commercial viability can be demonstrated.
Useful lives are also examined on an annual basis and adjustments, where applicable, are made on a prospective basis.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of the asset, which are as follows: Years Developed technology 512 Customer relationships 520 Purchased brand 5 Other software 3 Purchased software rights 510 Research expenditure Research expenditure is written off in the year of expenditure.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 118 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Government grants Grants in respect of specific Research & Development projects are recognised as receivable when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and the conditions to obtain them have been complied with.
They are credited to the income statement in the same period as the related Research & Development costs for which the grant is compensating.
The grant income is presented as a deduction from the related expense.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down the assets to their estimated residual value over the useful economic life of the asset as follows: Years Computer equipment 3 Fixtures, fittings and office equipment 68 Motor vehicles 4 Leasehold buildings and improvements are amortised on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease 3 to 49 years or useful economic life, if shorter.
Impairment of assets Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to cash-generating units expected to benefit from the combinations synergies and represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and generates cash flows which are independent of other cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually or when events or changes in circumstance indicate that it might be impaired.
The carrying values of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may be impaired.
If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated recoverable amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down to their recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the greater of net selling price and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the administrative expenses line item.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables, which generally have 30 to 90 day terms, are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectible amounts.
An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full amount is no longer probable.
Bad debts are written off when identified.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and short-term deposits in the Consolidated balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these approximates their fair value.
For the purpose of the Consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
Derivative financial instruments The only derivative financial instruments the Group holds are forward foreign exchange contracts to reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
All forward foreign exchange contracts have been marked-to-market and are held at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The Group has not applied hedge accounting during the year and therefore movements in fair value are being recorded in the Consolidated income statement.
Fair value is estimated using the settlement rates prevailing at the period end.
Leases Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119 Taxation The Group is subject to income tax in numerous jurisdictions.
The Group recognises provisions for tax based on estimates of taxes that are likely to become due.
Where the final tax outcome is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the current income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determinations are made.
Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Legislation has been enacted to allow UK companies to elect for the Research & Development Expenditure Credit RDEC on qualifying expenditure incurred since 1 April 2013, instead of the super-deduction rules.
At the balance sheet date, management has concluded that the election will be made and therefore the RDEC is recorded as income included in profit before tax, netted against Research & Development expenses as the RDEC is of the nature of a government grant.
Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: except where the deferred income tax liability arises from goodwill amortisation or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses can be utilised: except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: and in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The income tax effects of items recorded in either other comprehensive income or equity are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income or the Consolidated statement of changes in shareholders equity respectively.
Otherwise, income tax is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Revenue, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales taxes except: where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales taxes included.
The net amount of sales taxes recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the Consolidated balance sheet.
Post retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit pension schemes in the UK, Sweden and Germany.
The Group also provides certain post employment benefits to its South Korean employees.
The UK defined benefit pension scheme, previously available to all UK employees, was closed to new applicants in 2002 and closed to future accrual from 31 March 2015.
UK employees are now offered membership of a defined contribution scheme.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 120 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The German unfunded defined benefit schemes are closed to new applicants and provide benefits to nine deferred members.
These schemes were acquired as part of previous business combinations.
No current employees participate in the schemes.
Full provision has been made for the liability on the Consolidated balance sheet.
The Group also operates a defined benefit pension scheme for one German employee.
The Group provides pension arrangements to its Swedish employees through an industry-wide defined benefit scheme.
It is not possible to identify the share of the underlying assets and liabilities in the scheme which is attributable to the Group on a fair and reasonable basis.
Therefore, the Group has applied the provisions in IAS 19 to account for the scheme as if it was a defined contribution scheme.
For the defined benefit schemes, the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually for each plan by qualified external actuaries using the projected unit credit method which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period to determine current service cost and to the current and prior periods to determine the present value of defined benefit obligation.
The retirement benefit liability in the Consolidated balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation using a discount rate derived from a published index of AA rated corporate bonds as reduced by the fair value of plan assets out of which the obligations are to be settled directly.
Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted securities is the published bid price.
The value of a net pension benefit asset is restricted to the present value of any amount the Group expects to recover by way of refunds from the plan or reductions in the future contributions.
The current service cost is recognised in the Consolidated income statement as an employee benefit expense.
The net interest element of the defined benefit cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments or changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The Group also operates defined contribution pension schemes for a number of UK and non-UK employees.
Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to profit before tax as they become payable.
Share-based payments The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are granted, further details of which are given in note 26.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Where the terms of an equity-settled award are modified, as a minimum an expense is recognised as if the terms had not been modified.
In addition, an expense is recognised for any increase in the value of the transaction as a result of the modification, as measured at the date of modification.
Where an equity-settled award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation and any expense not yet recognised for the award is recognised immediately.
However, if a new award is substituted for the cancelled award, and designated as a replacement award on the date that it is granted, the cancelled and new awards are treated as if they were a modification of the original award, as described in the previous paragraph.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution in the computation of earnings per share, subject to an estimate of whether performance conditions will be met.
Employee benefit trust The Group has established an employee benefit trust AVEVA Group Employee Benefit Trust 2008, which is a separately administered trust and is funded by loans from Group companies.
The assets of the trust comprise shares in AVEVA Group plc and cash balances.
The Group recognises assets and liabilities of the trust in the Consolidated financial statements and shares held by the trust are recorded at cost as a deduction from shareholders equity.
Consideration received for the sale of shares held by the trust is recognised in equity, with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the original cost being taken to retained earnings.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121 A full list of addresses of all subsidiaries and significant AVEVA Information Technology India Private Limited holdings is provided below.
Unit No 202, Wing A, 2nd Floor Supreme Business Park, Hiranandani Gardens, Powai AVEVA Group plc Mumbai 400 076 AVEVA Solutions Limited India CADCentre Property Limited AVEVA Finance Limited AVEVA Solutions India LLP CADCentre Pension Trustees Limited AVEVA Software India Private Limited FabTrol Systems, UK Limited Tower 2.1, 2nd 4th Floor, WaveRock Tribon Solutions UK Limited Sy.
no 115 APIIC IT ITES SEZ AVEVA Consulting Limited Nanakramguda, Gachibowli AVEVA Managed Services Limited Hyderabad 500008 AVEVA Engineering IT Limited India CADCentre Engineering IT Limited CADCentre Limited AVEVA Asia Pacific Sendirian Berhad AVEVA Limited AVEVA Sendirian Berhad LFM Software Limited Level 39, Menara 3 PETRONAS High Cross Persiaran KLCC, Kuala Lumpur City Centre Madingley Road 50088 Kuala Lumpur Cambridge Malaysia CB3 0HB AVEVA Shanghai Consultancy Co. Limited AVEVA AB AVEVA Solutions Shanghai Co. Limited PO Box 50555, Drottninggatan 18 Unit 1503-1506, YouYou International Plaza SE-202 15 No.
76 Pu Jian Road Malmo Shanghai 200127 Sweden China AVEVA AS AVEVA East Asia Limited Lysaker Torg 45 E 2nd Floor, Shui On Centre PO Box 232 6-8 Harbour Road N-1326 Lysaker Wanchai Norway Hong Kong AVEVA GmbH AVEVA Korea Limited Otto-Volger-Street 7c 14th Floor, Haesung 2 Building 65843 Sulzbach Taunus 942-10 Daechi-dong, Kangnam-gu Seoul Germany 135-725 Korea AVEVA SA 5 Square Felix Nadar AVEVA KK Bat C, 94300 Vincennes Nisseki Yokohama Bldg France 19F 1-1-8, Sakuragi-cho, Naka-ku, Yokohama AVEVA OOO Limited Liability Company 231-0062 Spartakovskaya Street Japan PO Box 36 105066 AVEVA Pte Limited Moscow 3A International Business Park Russia #06-06 Singapore AVEVA Denmark A S 609935 Sofiendalsvej 5A 9200 Aalborg SV Denmark AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 122 STATEMENT OF GROUP ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED AVEVA Pty Limited Level 18 333 Ann Street Brisbane, Queensland 4000 Australia AVEVA Colombia S. A. S. World Trade Center, Calle 100 No.
8 - 49 Torre B, PH, Oficina 22 Bogota Colombia AVEVA Inc. 10350 Richmond Avenue, Suite 400 Houston TX 77042 USA AVEVA Software and Services S. A fide C. V. AVEVA fide Mexico S. fide R. L. AV.
863, Piso 7 Col. Napoles, Deleg Benito Juarez Mexico City D. F. 03810 Mexico AVEVA do Brasil Informtica Ltda Rua Lauro Muller 116 Sala 2202 Torre Rio Sul Botaforgo Rio fide Janeiro Cep: 22.290-160 Brazil AVEVA Chile S. p. A. Avendia Vitacura 2670 Piso 15, Las Condes Santiago fide Chile 7550698 Chile 8over8 Limited Northern Ireland Science Park Fort George, Bay Road Londonderry BT48 7TG 8over8 Pty Limited L29, 221 St Georges Terrace Perth, WA 6000 Australia
