96 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES General information The standard represents a signi cant change in the accounting The current financial statements are prepared for the 52-week and reporting of leases for lessees as it provides a single lessee period ended 1 April 2017, whereas the prior financial period was the accounting model.
As such it requires lessees to recognise assets 53 weeks ended 2 April 2016. and liabilities for all leases unless the underlying asset has a low value or the lease term is 12 months or less.
The standard may Basis of preparation also require the capitalisation of a lease element of contracts The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with held by the Group which under the existing accounting standard International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and IFRS would not be considered a lease.
Accounting requirements for Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations, as adopted by lessors are substantially unchanged from IAS 17. the European Union, and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Group has established a working group to assess the impact of the new standard.
Work performed includes assessing the In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial accounting impacts of the change, the process of collecting statements, the directors have considered the business activities the required data from across the business and the necessary as set out on pages 1 to 33 including the Groups principal risks and changes to systems and processes.
From work performed to uncertainties as set out on pages 30 to 33.
Based on the Groups date, it is expected implementation of the new standard will have cash ow forecasts and projections, the Board is satis ed that the a signi cant impact on the consolidated results of the Group.
Group will be able to operate within the level of its bank facilities On adoption, lease agreements will give rise to both a right for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Group continues to of use asset and a lease liability for future lease payables.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
Depreciation of the right of use asset will be recognised in The Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership has taken an the income statement on a straight-line basis, with interest exemption under paragraph 7 of the Partnership Accounts recognised on the lease liability.
This will result in a change Regulations 2008 for the requirement to prepare and deliver to the pro le of the net charge taken to the income statement financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act.
over the life of the lease.
These charges will replace the lease costs currently charged to the income statement.
New accounting standards adopted by the Group There have been no signi cant changes to accounting under IFRS The Group continues to assess the full impact of IFRS 16, however, which have aff ected the Groups results for the current financial the impact will greatly depend on the facts and circumstances year.
The only changes to the IFRS, IFRS IC interpretations and at the time of adoption and upon transition choices adopted.
amendments that are eff ective for the first time in this financial year, It is therefore not yet practicable to provide a reliable estimate and are applicable for the Group, are the Annual Improvements to of the financial impact on the Groups consolidated results.
These have not had a material impact on Alternative Performance Measures the Group.
In reporting financial information, the Group presents alternative New accounting standards in issue but not yet eff ective performance measures, APMs, which are not fide ned or speci ed The following IFRS have been issued but are not yet eff ective: under the requirements of IFRS.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments replaces all phases of the financial The Group believes that these APMs, which are not considered to be instruments project and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: a substitute for or superior to IFRS measures, provide stakeholders Recognition and Measurement.
The standard is eff ective from with additional helpful information on the performance of the periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and introduces: business.
The APMs are consistent with how the business performance is planned and reported within the internal new requirements for the classi cation and measurement management reporting to the Board and Operating Committee.
of financial assets and financial liabilities: Some of these measures are also used for the purpose of setting a new model for recognising provisions based on expected remuneration targets.
credit losses: and The key APMs that the Group uses include: like-for-like sales: gross simpli ed hedge accounting by aligning hedge accounting margin: pro t before tax and adjusted items: adjusted earnings more closely with an entities risk management methodology.
per share: net debt: free cash ow: and return on capital employed.
Each of these APMs, and others used by the Group, are set out in Work is under way to assess the necessary changes to existing the Glossary on pages 133 and 134 including explanations of how IT systems that will be required to aid the Group's implementation they are calculated and how they can be reconciled to a statutory of the standard.
The adoption of IFRS 9 is unlikely to have a measure where relevant.
material impact on the consolidated results of the Group.
Any potential impact of IFRS 9 will be quanti ed in the Annual Report The Group reports some financial measures, primarily International and Financial Statements for the year ending 31 March 2018. sales, on both a reported and constant currency basis.
The constant currency basis, which is an APM, retranslates the previous year IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is eff ective revenues at the average actual periodic exchange rates used in for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The standard the current financial year.
This measure is presented as a means of establishes a principles based approach for revenue recognition eliminating the eff ects of exchange rate uctuations on the yearand is based on the concept of recognising revenue for on-year reported results.
obligations only when they are satis ed and the control of goods or services is transferred.
It applies to all contracts with The Group makes certain adjustments to the statutory pro t customers, except those in the scope of other standards.
measures in order to derive many of these APMs.
The Groups policy It replaces the separate models for goods, services and is to exclude items that are considered to be signi cant in both construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
nature and or quantum and where treatment as an adjusted item The Group has completed an assessment on the impact of IFRS 15 provides stakeholders with additional useful information to assess and it is expected adoption will not have a material impact on any the year-on-year trading performance of the Group.
On this basis, of the Groups revenue streams.
the following items were included within adjusted items for the 52-week period ended 1 April 2017: IFRS 16 Leases was issued on 13 January 2016 and is eff ective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Early adoption is Signi cant pension charges arising as a result of changes to the permitted if IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers fide ned bene t scheme's rules and practices has also been applied.
IFRS 16 is not yet endorsed by the EU.
97 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Signi cant restructuring costs and other associated costs arising The types of supplier income recognised by the Group and the from signi cant strategy changes that are not considered by the associated recognition policies are: Group to be part of the normal operating costs of the business.
Promotional contribution Includes supplier contributions Net gains and losses on the disposal of properties or to promotional giveaways and pre-agreed contributions to annual impairments of properties where a commitment to close spend and save activity.
Income is recognised as a deduction to cost of sales over the Impairment charges and provisions that are considered to be relevant promotional period.
signi cant in nature and or value to the trading performance Income is calculated and invoiced at the end of the promotional of the business.
period based on actual sales or according to xed contribution Adjustments to income from M&S Bank due to a provision arrangements.
Contributions earned but not invoiced are accrued recognised by M&S Bank for the cost of providing redress to at the end of the relevant period.
customers in respect of possible mis-selling of M&S Bank B. Volume-based rebates Includes annual growth incentives, financial products.
seasonal contributions and contributions to share economies of Various legal settlements that are signi cant in value to the scale resulting from moving product supply.
results of the Group or to a segment.
Annual growth incentives are calculated and invoiced at the end Refer to note 5 for a summary of the adjusted items.
of the financial year, once earned, based on xed percentage growth targets agreed for each supplier at the beginning of the year.
A summary of the Companys and the Groups accounting policies They are recognised as a reduction in cost of sales in the year to is given below: which they relate.
Other volume-based rebates are agreed with the Accounting convention supplier and spread over the relevant season contract period to The financial statements are drawn up on the historical cost basis which they relate.
Contributions earned but not invoiced are ofaccounting, as modi ed by financial assets and financial liabilities accrued at the end of the relevant period.
including derivative instruments at fair value through pro t and loss.
Uncollected supplier income at the balance sheet date is classi ed Basis of consolidation within the financial statements as follows: The Group financial statements incorporate the financial A.
Trade and other payables The majority of income due from statements of Marks and Spencer Group plc and all its subsidiaries suppliers is netted against amounts owed to that supplier as made up to the period end date.
Where necessary, adjustments the Group has the right to off set these balances.
As such, the are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the outstanding supplier income within trade and other payables at accounting policies used in line with those used by the Group.
Trade and other receivables Supplier income that has been Subsidiary undertakings are all entities including special purpose earned but not invoiced at the balance sheet date is recognised in entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial trade and other receivables and primarily relates to volume-based and operating policies.
This power is generally accompanied by the rebates that run up to the period end.
Group having a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year are In order to provide users of the accounts with greater understanding recorded using the acquisition method of accounting and their in this area, additional balance sheet disclosure is provided in note 17 results are included from the date of acquisition.
The separable net assets, including property, plant and equipment Dividends and intangible assets, of the newly acquired subsidiary undertakings Final dividends are recorded in the financial statements in the are incorporated into the consolidated financial statements on the period in which they are approved by the Companys shareholders.
basis of the fair value as at the eff ective date of control.
Interim dividends are recorded in the period in which they are approved and paid.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated.
Pensions Funded pension plans are in place for the Groups UK employees Revenue and some employees overseas.
Revenue comprises sales of goods to customers outside the Group less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected returns, For fide ned bene t pension schemes, the diff erence between the discounts and loyalty scheme vouchers, and is stated net of value fair value of the assets and the present value of the fide ned bene t added tax and other sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when goods obligation is recognised as an asset or liability in the statement of are delivered to our franchise partners or the customer and the financial position.
The fide ned bene t obligation is actuarially signi cant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred calculated using the projected unit credit method.
The service cost of providing retirement bene ts to employees Supplier income during the year, together with the cost of any curtailment, is charged In line with industry practice, the Group enters into agreements to operating pro t in the year.
with suppliers to share the costs and bene ts of promotional The net interest cost on the net retirement bene t asset liability is activity and volume growth.
The Group receives income from its calculated by applying the discount rate, measured at the beginning suppliers based on speci c agreements in place.
This supplier of the year, to the net fide ned bene t asset liability and is included income received is recognised as a deduction from cost of sales as a single net amount in finance income.
based on the entitlement that has been earned up to the balance sheet date for each relevant supplier agreement.
Marketing Remeasurements, being actuarial gains and losses, together with contributions, equipment hire and other non-judgemental the diff erence between actual investment returns and the return xed rate supplier charges are not included in the Groups implied by the net interest cost, are recognised immediately in the fide nition of supplier income.
Payments to fide ned contribution retirement bene t schemes are charged as an expense on an accruals basis.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 98 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Intangible assets Leasehold prepayments A.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the Payments made to acquire leasehold land and buildings are excess of the consideration paid and the amount of any nonincluded in prepayments at cost and are amortised over the life controlling interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the of the lease.
identi able assets and liabilities including intangible assets of Cash and cash equivalents the acquired entity at the date of the acquisition.
Goodwill is Cash and cash equivalents includes short-term deposits with banks recognised as an asset and assessed for impairment annually or and other financial institutions, with an initial maturity of three as triggering events occur.
Any impairment in value is recognised months or less and credit card payments received within 48 hours.
Brands Acquired brand values are held on the statement of Inventories are valued on a weighted average cost basis and carried financial position initially at cost.
fide nite life intangibles are at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes all direct amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
expenditure and other attributable costs incurred in bringing Inde nite life intangibles are tested for impairment annually or as inventories to their present location and condition.
All inventories triggering events occur.
Any impairment in value is recognised are nished goods.
Certain purchases of inventories may be subject within the income statement.
to cash ow hedges for foreign exchange risk.
The Group applies a C. Software intangibles Where computer software is not an basis adjustment for those purchases in a way that the cost is initially integral part of a related item of computer hardware, the software established by reference to the hedged exchange rate and not the istreated as an intangible asset.
Capitalised software costs include spot rate at the day of purchase.
external direct costs of goods and services, as well as internal Provisions payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation withthe project.
as a result of a past event, and it is probable that the Group will be Capitalised software development costs are amortised on a required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the straight-line basis over their expected economic lives, normally best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at between three and ten years.
Computer software under the end of the reporting period, and are discounted to present value development is held at cost less any recognised impairment loss.
where the eff ect is material.
Any impairment in value is recognised within the income statement.
Share-based payments Property, plant and equipment The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain The Groups policy is to state property, plant and equipment at cost employees.
A fair value for the equity-settled share awards is less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
measured at the date of grant.
The Group measures the fair value Property is not revalued for accounting purposes.
Assets in the of each award using the Black-Scholes model where appropriate.
course of construction are held at cost less any recognised The fair value of each award is recognised as an expense over the impairment loss.
Cost includes professional fees and, for qualifying vesting period on a straight-line basis, after allowing for an estimate assets, borrowing costs.
of the share awards that will eventually vest.
The level of vesting is Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of tangible nonreviewed at each reporting period and the charge is adjusted to current assets including investment properties, less estimated re ect actual and estimated levels of vesting.
residual values on a straight line basis as follows: Foreign currencies Freehold land not depreciated.
The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated at the weighted average of monthly exchange rates for revenue and pro ts.
Freehold and leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term The statements of financial position of overseas subsidiaries are over 50 years depreciated to their residual value over their translated at year end exchange rates.
The resulting exchange estimated remaining economic lives.
diff erences are booked into reserves and reported in the Leasehold buildings with a remaining lease term of less than consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
50years depreciated over the remaining period of the lease.
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at Fixtures, ttings and equipment 3 to 25 years according to the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency the estimated economic life of the asset.
monetary assets and liabilities held at the end of the reporting period are translated at the closing balance sheet rate.
The resulting Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually.
exchange gain or loss is recognised within the income statement, Depreciation is charged on all additions to, or disposals of, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal.
cash ow hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
Taxation Leasing Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in Where assets are nanced by leasing agreements and the risks and the income statement, except to the extent it relates to items rewards are substantially transferred to the Group finance leases recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in the assets are treated as if they had been purchased outright, and which case the related tax is recognised in other comprehensive the corresponding liability to the leasing company is included as an income or directly in equity.
Depreciation on leased assets is Provision is made for uncertain tax positions when it is considered charged to the income statement on the same basis as owned probable that there will be a future out ow of funds to a tax assets, unless the term of the lease is shorter.
The provision is calculated using the single best estimate treated as consisting of capital and interest elements and the where that outcome is more likely than not and a weighted average interest is charged to the income statement.
The position is reviewed on an All other leases are operating leases and the costs in respect of ongoing basis, to ensure appropriate provision is made for each operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the known tax risk.
The value of any lease incentive received to take on an operating lease for example, a rent-free period is recognised as deferred income and is released over the life of the lease.
99 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Deferred tax is accounted for using a temporary diff erence or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for using an approach, and is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on eff ective interest rate method and are added to the carrying temporary diff erences between the carrying amount of assets and amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled liabilities in the statement of financial position and the in the period in which they arise.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable pro t. E. Loan notes Long-term loans are initially measured at fair value Deferred tax is calculated based on the expected manner net of direct issue costs and are subsequently held at amortised of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and cost unless the loan is designated in a hedge relationship, in which liabilities, applying tax rates and laws enacted or substantively case hedge accounting treatment will apply.
enacted at the end of the reporting period.
F. Trade payables Trade payables are recorded initially at fair value Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Generally this temporary diff erences.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for results in their recognition at their nominal value.
taxable temporary diff erences arising on investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, except where the reversal G. Equity instruments Equity instruments issued by the Company of the temporary diff erence can be controlled by the Group and it is are recorded at the consideration received, net of direct issue costs.
probable that the diff erence will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised on temporary diff erences The Group primarily uses interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps that arise from goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes.
and forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to uctuations in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
These Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date that taxable pro ts will be available against which the deductible and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value at the end of temporary diff erences can be utilised.
The carrying amount of the reporting period.
The method of recognising the resulting gain deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period or loss is dependent on whether the derivative is designated as and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that a hedging instrument and the nature of the item being hedged.
suffi cient taxable pro ts will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The Group designates certain hedging derivatives as either: Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised in respect of A hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or change in temporary diff erences that arise on initial recognition of assets the cash ows of a recognised asset or liability a cash ow hedge.
and liabilities acquired other than in a business combination.
A hedge of the exposure to change in the fair value of Financial instruments a recognised asset or liability a fair value hedge.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the Groups A hedge of the exposure on the translation of net investments statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party in foreign entities a net investment hedge.
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
At the inception of a hedging relationship, the hedging instrument A.
Trade and other receivables Trade receivables are recorded and the hedged item are documented, along with the risk initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
management objectives and strategy for undertaking various Subsequently, this results in their recognition at nominal value less hedge transactions and prospective eff ectiveness testing is any allowance for any doubtful debts.
During the life of the hedging relationship, prospective B.
Other financial assets Other financial assets consist of and retrospective eff ectiveness testing is performed to ensure investments in debt and equity securities and short-term the instrument remains an eff ective hedge of the transaction.
investments and are classi ed as either available-for-sale or fair Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that value through pro t and loss.
Available-for-sale financial assets are do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs directly statement as they arise.
attributable to the acquisition of the financial asset.
Cash ow hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative held at fair value through pro t and loss are initially recognised at financial instruments that are designated and eff ective as hedges fair value and transaction costs are expensed.
of future cash ows are recognised in other comprehensive income Where securities are designated as fair value through pro t and in the hedging reserve and any ineff ective portion is recognised loss, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included immediately in the income statement.
If the rm commitment or in the income statement for the period.
For available-for-sale forecast transaction that is the subject of a cash ow hedge results investments, gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are in the recognition of a nonfinancial asset or liability, then, at the recognised in other comprehensive income, until the security time the asset or liability is recognised, the associated gains or is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time losses on the derivative that had previously been recognised in the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income are included in the initial measurement comprehensive income is included in the income statement for of the asset or liability.
Equity investments that do not have a quoted market For hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably liability, amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are measured by other means are held at cost.
recognised in the income statement in the same period in which C. Classi cation of financial liabilities and equity Financial the hedged items aff ect net pro t or loss.
liabilities and equity instruments are classi ed according to the B.
Fair value hedges Changes in the fair value of a derivative substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument designated in a fair value hedge, or, for non-derivatives instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the the foreign currency component of carrying value, are recognised assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
The hedged item is adjusted for D. Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged initially recorded at fair value, which equals the proceeds received, with the corresponding entry in the income statement.
net of direct issue costs.
They are subsequently held at amortised cost.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 100 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED C. Net investment hedges Changes in the fair value of derivative These measures are consistent with how business performance or non-derivative financial instruments that are designated and is measured internally by the Board and Operating Committee.
eff ective as hedges of net investments are recognised in other The adjusted pro t before tax measure is not a recognised comprehensive income in the hedging reserve and any ineff ective pro t measure under IFRS and may not be directly comparable portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
with adjusted pro t measures used by other companies.
The classi cation of adjusted items requires signi cant management Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that judgement after considering the nature and intentions of do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in the income a transaction.
Note 5 provides further details on current year adjusted items and D. Discontinuance of hedge accounting Hedge accounting is their adherence to Group policy.
discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, the hedge relationship no longer Sources of estimation uncertainty quali es for hedge accounting, the forecast transaction is no Useful lives and residual values of property, plant and longer expected to occur or the Group fide-designates the equipment Depreciation is provided to write down the cost of hedge relationship.
property, plant and equipment to their estimated residual values over their estimated useful lives, as set out above.
The selection When a cash ow hedge is discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss of the residual values and useful lives gives rise to estimation on the hedging instrument recognised in other comprehensive uncertainty.
The Group is undertaking a strategic multi-year income is retained in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
programme in relation to the UK store estate which will result Subsequent changes in the fair value of the hedging instruments in future store closures.
The timing of these closures and the when the forecast transaction is no longer highly probable but is identi cation of the speci c stores that will be impacted are not still expected to occur, are recognised in the income statement.
yet known, giving rise to additional estimation uncertainty when If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net assessing the residual values and useful lives as at 1 April 2017. cumulative gain or loss recognised in comprehensive income is The useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed transferred to the income statement for the period.
See note 15 for further details.
When a fair value hedge is discontinued, the fair value adjustment Impairment of property, plant and equipment Property, plant to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged and equipment are reviewed for impairment if events or changes risk is amortised to the income statement from that date.
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not When a net investment hedge is discontinued, the subsequent be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, changes in fair value of a derivative or foreign exchange gains the recoverable amount is determined based on value in use losses on recognised financial liabilities are recognised in the calculations.
This method requires the Group to determine the income statement.
The gain or loss on the hedging instrument appropriate period over which to assess future cash ows and recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassi ed to the discount rate assumptions.
See notes 14 and 15 for further details income statement only on disposal of the net investment.
on the Group's assumptions and associated sensitivities.
The Group does not use derivatives to hedge income statement Post-retirement bene ts The determination of the pension cost translation exposures.
and fide ned bene t obligation of the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes depends on the selection of certain assumptions Embedded derivatives which include the discount rate, in ation rate, salary growth, Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host mortality and expected return on scheme assets.
Diff erences contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and arising from actual experiences or future changes in assumptions characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts will be re ected in subsequent periods.
The fair value of unquoted and the host contracts are not carried at fair value, with unrealised investments within total plan assets is determined using fair value gains or losses reported in the income statement.
Embedded estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
derivatives are carried in the statement of financial position at fair See note 11 for further details on the impact of changes in the key value from the inception of the host contract.
assumptions and estimates and note 12 for critical judgements Changes in fair value are recognised within the income statement associated with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme interest during the period in which they arise.
in the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership.
Critical accounting judgements and sources of estimation Revenue recognition Accruals for sales returns, deferred income uncertainty in relation to loyalty scheme redemptions and gift card and credit The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires voucher redemptions are estimated on the basis of historical the Group to make estimates and judgements that aff ect the returns and redemptions.
These are recorded so as to be allocated application of policies and reported amounts.
against revenue in the same period as that in which the original revenue is recorded.
These balances are reviewed regularly and Critical judgements represent key decisions made by management updated to re ect managements latest best estimates.
However, in the application of the Group accounting policies.
Where a actual returns and redemptions could vary from those estimates.
signi cant risk of materially diff erent outcomes exists due to management assumptions or sources of estimation uncertainty, International closure costs During the year the Group announced this will represent a critical accounting estimate.
Estimates and its strategy for the International business resulting in the planned judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical exit from owned stores in ten international markets.
The Group will experience and other factors, including expectations of future incur signi cant closure costs associated with the exits which gives events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
rise to estimation uncertainty at 1 April 2017, most notably in respect Actual results may diff er from these estimates.
of the expected costs to exit leases and the expected redundancy costs.
See note 5 for further details.
The estimates and judgements which have a signi cant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets Inventory provisioning Inventory provisions are recognised where and liabilities are discussed below.
the net realisable value from the sale of inventory is estimated to be lower than its carrying value, requiring estimation of the expected Critical accounting judgements future sale price.
The estimation includes judgement on a number Adjusted items The directors believe that the adjusted pro t of factors including historic sales patterns, expected sales pro les, and earnings per share measures provide additional useful potential obsolescence and shrinkage.
information for shareholders on the performance of the business.
101 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 SEGMENTAL INFORMATION IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identi ed on the basis of internal reporting on components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
The chief operating decision maker has been identi ed as the Operating Committee.
The Operating Committee reviews the Group's internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources across each operating segment.
The operating segments are UK and International which are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting to the Operating Committee.
The UK segment consists of the UK retail business and UK franchise operations.
The International segment consists of Marks & Spencer owned businesses in Europe and Asia, together with international franchise operations.
The Operating Committee assesses the performance of the operating segments based on a measure of operating pro t. This measurement basis excludes the eff ects of adjusted items from the operating segments.
The Operating Committee also monitors revenue within the segments and gross pro t within the UK segment.
To increase transparency, the Group has decided to include an additional voluntary disclosure analysing revenue within the reportable segments by sub-category and gross pro t within the UK segment by sub-category.
Management gross pro t for the UK segment excludes certain expenses resulting in an adjustment between cost of sales and selling and administrative expenses of 360.5m last year 300.9m.
Updates to the methodology have been made in the current year to include depreciation of the relevant Distribution Centres within gross margin.
This is to ensure consistent treatment with the underlying warehousing costs.
The prior year comparatives have not been restated.
Management pro t excludes the adjusted items income or charges made to reported pro t before tax that are signi cant in value and or nature see note 5.
Please refer to the Glossary on pages 133 and 134 for the fide nition of these items.
Other segmental information 2017 2016 UK International Total UK International Total m m m m m m Additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets excluding goodwill 374.1 12.2 386.3 624.9 20.0 644.9 Depreciation and amortisation 549.1 29.1 578.2 531.9 30.9 562.8 Impairment and asset write-off s 72.7 31.2 103.9 60.8 98.8 159.6 Total assets 7,917.3 375.2 8,292.5 8,062.3 414.1 8,476.4 Non-current assets 6,324.4 244.8 6,569.2 6,751.9 263.1 7,015.0 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 102 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 EXPENSE ANALYSIS 2017 2016 Total Total m m Revenue 10,622.0 10,555.4 Cost of sales 6,534.2 6,427.0 Gross pro t 4,087.8 4,128.4 Selling and administrative expenses 3,460.4 3,412.9 Other operating income 63.2 69.4 Operating pro t before adjusted items 690.6 784.9 Adjusted items see note 5 437.4 200.8 Operating pro t 253.2 584.1 The selling and administrative expenses are further analysed below: 2017 2016 Total Total m m 1 Employee costs 1,491.4 1,435.7 Occupancy costs 757.2 723.2 Repairs, renewals and maintenance of property 95.1 99.5 Depreciation, amortisation and asset impairments and write-off s before adjusted items 589.5 576.8 Other costs 527.2 577.7 Selling and administrative expenses 3,460.4 3,412.9 1.
There is an additional 61.2m last year 51.0m of employee costs recorded within cost of sales.
These costs are included within the aggregate remuneration disclosures note 10A.
4 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION The following items have been included in arriving at pro t before taxation: 2017 2016 m m Net foreign exchange gains losses 0.2 6.9 Cost of inventories recognised as an expense 5,776.1 5,778.6 Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 234.9 239.7 Depreciation of property, plant, and equipment owned assets 410.3 412.7 under finance leases 0.5 1.4 Amortisation of intangible assets 167.4 148.7 Pro t on property disposals 0.6 Impairments and write-off s of assets 103.9 159.6 Operating lease rentals payable property 350.1 337.1 xtures, ttings and equipment 4.3 3.5 Included in administrative expenses is the auditor's remuneration, including expenses for audit and non-audit services, payable to the Companys auditor Deloitte LLP and its associates as follows: 2017 2016 m m Annual audit of the Company and the consolidated financial statements 0.9 0.7 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.7 0.7 Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.2 Total audit and audit-related assurance services fees 1.9 1.6 Other services 0.1 Total other services 0.1 103 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 ADJUSTED ITEMS The total adjusted items reported for the 52-week period ended 1 April 2017 is a net charge of 437.4m.
The adjustments made to reported pro t before tax to arrive at adjusted pro t are: 2017 2016 Notes m m Strategic programmes: changes to pay and pensions 22 156.0 UK organisation 15, 22 24.0 UK store estate 15, 22 51.6 37.0 International store closures and impairments 15, 22 132.5 31.6 UK store impairments and onerous lease charges 15, 22 48.8 M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 44.1 50.3 UK logistics 15, 22 9.8 9.2 Legal settlements 9.8 1 Other impairments 94.5 IAS 39 fair value movement of embedded derivative 2.0 Net gain on acquisition of joint venture holding Bradford warehouse 5.4 Adjustments to pro t before tax 437.4 200.8 1.
Other impairments in the prior year included the impairment of Czech and Hungary goodwill 19.1m, the M&S Mode brand 32.4m, an enterprise management system used by the International business of 19.3m and impairment costs of 23.7m related to the Clothing & Home buying and merchandising systems.
Changes to pay and pensions 156.0m On 25 May 2016, the Group announced proposals for a fairer, simpler and more consistent approach to pay and premia as well as proposals to close the UK fide ned bene t DB pension scheme to future accrual eff ective from 1 April 2017.
The consultation with employees on these changes completed on 2 September 2016.
The closure of the UK DB pension scheme to future accrual has resulted in a curtailment charge of 127.0m.
As all remaining active members of the scheme have transitioned to deferred status, all future pensionable increases will be in line with in ation CPI as opposed to the lower 1% salary cap applied to active members.
Other costs of 5.4m directly associated with the closure, primarily in relation to third party advisory costs, have also been incurred.
The Group considers the curtailment cost and directly associated costs to be an adjusted item on the basis that they relate to a signi cant cost impacting the Group results.
Following the completion of the consultation in respect of pay and premia, the Group has committed to transition payments of 23.6m in respect of the removal of premia.
The full amount of 23.6m has been recognised as a liability at 1 April 2017 as the criteria for recognition under IAS 37 have been met at this date.
The Group anticipates making further transition payments to impacted employees in relation to the closure of the UK DB scheme, expected tobe c. 25m in total over the next three years.
These amounts will be recognised within adjusted items in future years as incurred.
The premia buyout costs are considered to be an adjusted item as they represent costs that are signi cant in value to the results of the Group.
Strategic programmes UK organisation 24.0m During the year, the Group announced the results of a wide-ranging strategic review across a number of areas of the business including customer, brand, UK organisation, UK store estate and International.
The completion of this review has resulted in the Group incurring a number of signi cant charges.
On 5 September 2016, following completion of a detailed review of the UK organisation, the Group announced changes to the UK Head Offi ce structure.
The changes have resulted in a net reduction of c. 590 Head Offi ce roles achieved through a combination of fewer contractors, natural attrition and redundancies and resulted in costs of 15.4m inclusive of fees.
On 2 March 2017, as part of the ongoing strategic programme, the Group announced an 18-month programme to centralise its London Head Offi ce functions into one building.
The Group has recognised a net charge of 8.6m associated with this rationalisation, inclusive of the impairment and write-off of assets upon exit of vacated buildings, an expected net sub-let shortfall and the costs of relocation.
These costs are considered to be an adjusted item as they are signi cant in value and relate to a strategic initiative.
As a result, they are not considered to be normal operating costs of the business.
Strategic programmes UK store estate 51.6m The Group has revised its previously announced strategic programme in relation to the UK store estate.
As part of this programme, ten UK stores were approved for closure in the period, resulting in closure costs of 47.3m relating to dilapidations, sub-let shortfalls, accelerated depreciation of xtures and ttings and impairment of assets.
The balance of the charges of 4.3m in the period relate to the ongoing review of assumptions associated with previously closed stores.
Whilst costs associated with the closure and re-con guration of the UK store estate will recur across financial years, the Group considers that they should be treated as an adjusted item given they are part of a strategic programme and are signi cant in value to the results of the Group.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 104 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5 ADJUSTED ITEMS CONTINUED Strategic programmes International store closures and impairments 132.5m The Group has announced its intention to close its owned stores in ten international markets, resulting in the recognition of a cost of 130.5m in the period.
The expected closure costs primarily relate to redundancy, lease exit and property dilapidations.
The closure programmes are ongoing in all markets, with the exception of China, where the final store was closed on 1 April 2017.
The costs are considered to be an adjusted item as they are part of a strategic programme and are signi cant in both value and nature to the results of the Group.
International store impairment testing during the year identi ed a number of stores where current and anticipated future performance does not support the carrying value of the stores, with a resulting impairment charge of 9.0m being incurred, which is considered signi cant in value to the results of the International segment.
Refer to note 15 for further details of these impairments.
Off setting these store impairments are credits of 7.0m relating to the reversal of historic impairments against five stores and the release of unutilised provisions on completion of the exit from the Balkans.
This impairment reversal and release are considered to be adjusted items, consistent with treatment in previous periods when the original charges were recognised as adjusted items.
UK store impairments and onerous lease charges 48.8m The UK store impairment testing during the year has identi ed a number of stores where the current and anticipated future performance does not support the carrying value of the stores.
As a result, a charge of 39.4m has been incurred in respect of the impairment of assets associated with these stores.
A future charge of 9.4m has been incurred in respect of onerous lease provisions associated with some of these stores.
The charges associated with the impairment of stores and associated onerous leases have been classi ed as an adjusted item on the basis of the signi cant value of the charge in the year to the results of the Group.
M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 44.1m The Group has an economic interest in M&S Bank, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC, by way of a Relationship Agreement that entitles the Group to a 50% share of the pro ts of M&S Bank after appropriate deductions.
The Group does not share in any losses of M&S Bank and is not obliged to refund any pro t share received from HSBC, although future income may be impacted by signi cant deductions.
Since the year ended 31 December 2010, M&S Bank has recognised in its audited financial statements an estimated liability for redress to customers in respect of possible mis-selling of financial products.
The Groups income from M&S Bank has been reduced by the deduction of our share of the estimated liability in both the current and prior years.
The deduction in the period is 44.1m.
The Group considers this cost to be an adjusted item, despite its recurring nature, as the charges are signi cant in nature and value in each period to the results of the Group.
UK logistics 9.8m credit A net credit of 9.8m has been recognised in the year relating to an updated view of the estimated closure costs of legacy logistics sites associated with the transition to a single tier distribution network.
This credit largely arises following a decision to retain two logistics warehouses within the network which had previously been identi ed for closure.
This net credit is considered to be an adjusted item, consistent with treatment in previous periods when the original charges were recognised as an adjusted item.
Legal settlements 9.8m credit During the year, the Group has reached various legal settlements resulting in a net credit to the income statement of 9.8m.
No further detail is provided in respect of these legal settlements due to the requirement to comply with con dentiality clauses within the agreements.
The settlements are considered to be adjusted items as they are signi cant in value to the results of the Group or to the segment.
6 FINANCE INCOME COSTS 2017 2016 m m Bank and other interest receivable 6.6 5.8 Unwind of discount on financial instruments 0.3 Pension net finance income see note 11 29.3 15.3 Finance income 36.2 21.1 Interest on bank borrowings 2.8 3.6 Interest payable on syndicated bank facility 4.3 5.5 Interest payable on medium-term notes 91.2 89.9 Interest payable on finance leases 1.9 1.9 Unwind of discount on financial instruments 0.4 Unwind of discount on provisions 0.2 0.4 Unwinding of discount on partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 12.6 14.7 Finance costs 113.0 116.4 Net finance costs 76.8 95.3 105 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE A.
Taxation charge 2017 2016 m m Current tax UK corporation tax on pro ts for the year at 20% last year 20% current year 98.3 111.6 adjustments in respect of prior years 17.4 5.6 UK current tax 80.9 106.0 Overseas current taxation current year 8.9 12.4 adjustments in respect of prior years 7.3 0.5 Total current taxation 97.1 11 7.9 Deferred tax origination and reversal of temporary diff erences 48.3 28.3 adjustments in respect of prior years 11.5 2.6 changes in tax rate 0.4 7.8 Total deferred tax see note 23 36.4 33.5 Total income tax expense 60.7 84.4 B.
Taxation reconciliation The eff ective tax rate was 34.4% last year 17.3% and is reconciled below: 2017 2016 m m Pro t before tax 176.4 488.8 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% last year 20% 35.3 97.8 Depreciation and other amounts in relation to xed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 4.7 2.3 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 0.7 9.6 Retranslation of deferred tax balances due to the change in statutory UK tax rates 3.9 7.8 Overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 2.3 4.3 Overseas tax losses where there is no relief anticipated in the foreseeable future 0.5 3.7 Adjustments to the current and deferred tax charges in respect of prior periods 1.4 3.5 Adjusted items: depreciation and other amounts in relation to xed assets that do not qualify for tax relief 2.6 UK store impairments and strategic programmes UK store estate where no tax relief is available 7.7 International store closures and impairments where no tax relief is available 26.0 15.3 strategic programmes UK organisation and logistics income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 1.7 pro ts and losses on property disposals 1.5 acquisition of Lima Bradford S. r. l 5.4 retranslation of deferred tax balances due to the change in statutory UK tax rates 4.3 overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 10.6 5.2 Total income tax expense 60.7 84.4 After excluding adjusted items, the adjusted eff ective tax rate was 19.9% last year 17.2%.
On 15 September 2016, the Finance Bill received Royal Assent to enact the previously announced reductions in the rate of corporation tax to 19% from 1 April 2017 and 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Group has remeasured its UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting period at the rates of 19% and 17% based on an expectation of when those balances are expected to unwind.
This has resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax charge of 0.4m in the income statement and the recognition of a deferred tax credit of 11.0m in other comprehensive income.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 106 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED B.
Taxation reconciliation continued 2017 2016 m m Pro t before taxation 176.4 488.8 Notional taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% last year 20% 35.3 97.8 Disallowable accounting depreciation and other similar items 90.2 85.4 Deductible capital allowances 67.2 71.5 Allowable deductions for employee share schemes 1.0 3.4 Allowable deductions for employee pension schemes 11.7 13.4 Overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 2.3 4.3 Overseas tax losses where there is no immediate relief 0.5 3.7 Other income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable 3.8 7.6 Adjusted items: UK store impairments and strategic programmes UK store estate where no tax relief is available 17.3 21.0 International store closures and impairments where no tax relief is available 27.3 strategic programmes UK organisation and logistics income and expenses that are not taxable or allowable for tax purposes 1.8 pay and pensions where tax relief is due in the future 25.4 pro ts and losses on property disposals 0.5 UK property and investment deductions where no tax relief is available 7.5 Lima Bradford S. r. l acquisition accounting 5.4 embedded derivative 4.7 overseas pro ts taxed at rates diff erent to those of the UK 10.6 5.2 Current year current tax charge 107.2 124.0 Represented by: UK current year current tax 98.3 111.6 Overseas current year current tax 8.9 12.4 107.2 124.0 UK adjustments in respect of prior years 17.4 5.6 Overseas adjustments in respect of prior years 7.3 0.5 Total current taxation note 7A 97.1 11 7.9 107 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 8 EARNINGS PER SHARE The calculation of earnings per ordinary share is based on earnings after tax and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
The adjusted earnings per share gures have also been calculated based on earnings before adjusted items that are signi cant in nature and or value see note 5.
These have been presented to provide shareholders with an additional measure of the Group's year-on-year performance.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
The Group has four types of dilutive potential ordinary shares being: those share options granted to employees where the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Company's ordinary shares during the year: unvested shares granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: unvested shares granted under the Restricted Share Plan: and unvested shares within the Performance Share Plan that have met the relevant performance conditions at the end of the reporting period.
Details of the adjusted earnings per share are set out below: 2017 2016 m m Pro t attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 117.1 406.9 Add less net of tax : Strategic programmes: changes to pay and pensions 128.6 UK organisation 20.3 UK store estate 46.5 30.5 International store closures and impairments 120.8 25.2 UK store impairments and onerous lease charges 41.3 M&S Bank charges incurred in relation to the insurance mis-selling provision 35.3 40.2 UK logistics 9.2 7.3 Legal settlements 7.9 Other Impairments 85.9 IAS 39 fair value movement of embedded derivative 1.6 Net gain on acquisition of joint venture holding Bradford warehouse 9.7 Pro t before adjusted items attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 492.8 573.3 Million Million Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 1,623.1 1,635.9 Potentially dilutive share options under the Group's share option schemes 8.0 6.3 Weighted average number of diluted ordinary shares 1,631.1 1,642.2 Pence Pence Basic earnings per share 7.2 24.9 Diluted earnings per share 7.2 24.8 Adjusted basic earnings per share 30.4 35.0 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 30.2 34.9 9 DIVIDENDS 2017 2016 2017 2016 per share per share m m Dividends on equity ordinary shares Paid final dividend 11.9p 11.6p 192.7 190.8 Special dividend 4.6p 74.5 Paid interim dividend 6.8p 6.8p 110.3 110.9 23.3p 18.4p 377.5 301.7 The directors have proposed a final dividend in respect of the year ended 1 April 2017 of 11.9p per share last year 11.9p, amounting to a dividend of 193.3m last year 192.7m.
This payment is subject to approval of shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, to be held on 11 July 2017.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP is available to shareholders who would prefer to invest their dividends in the shares of the Company.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 1 June 2017.
For those shareholders electing to receive the DRIP, the last date for receipt of a new election is 23 June 2017.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 108 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10 EMPLOYEES A.
Aggregate remuneration The aggregate remuneration and associated costs of Group employees including the Operating Committee were: 2017 2016 Total Total m m Wages and salaries 1,333.8 1,278.8 Social security costs 89.7 80.6 Pension costs 100.3 102.0 Share-based payments see note 13 10.6 16.0 Employee welfare and other personnel costs 47.1 46.7 Capitalised staffi ng costs 28.9 37.4 1 Total aggregate remuneration 1,552.6 1,486.7 1.
Excludes amounts recognised within adjusted items see note 5 such as the transition payments the Group has committed to in respect of removal of premia and redundancy costs associated with the UK and International strategic programmes.
Details of key management compensation are given in note 28.
Average monthly number of employees 2017 2016 UK stores management and supervisory categories 5,617 5,696 other 66,385 63,733 UK head offi ce management and supervisory categories 3,172 3,191 other 862 881 UK operations management and supervisory categories 191 257 other 1,267 1,127 Overseas 7,445 8,063 Total average number of employees 84,939 82,948 If the number of hours worked was converted on the basis of a normal working week, the equivalent average number of full-time employees would have been 59,764 last year 58,895.
11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group provides pension arrangements for the bene t of its UK employees through the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme a fide ned bene t DB arrangement and Your M&S Pension Saving Plan a fide ned contribution DC arrangement.
The UK DB pension scheme operated on a final salary basis and is governed by a Trustee board which is independent of the Group.
On closure of the UK DB pension scheme, all remaining active members moved to deferred status which resulted in a curtailment charge of 127.0m.
There will be no future service charge relating to the scheme and no future monthly employer contributions for current service.
At year end the UK DB pension scheme had no active members last year 11,176, 62,655 deferred members last year 53,589 and 51,198 pensioners last year 51,047.
The most recent actuarial valuation of the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2015 and showed a funding surplus of 204m.
During the year the Group paid the final contribution of 28m, as agreed at the 2012 actuarial valuation, in respect of bene ts already accrued by members.
In addition, the UK DB pension scheme will continue to receive income from the Scottish Limited Partnership.
See Note 12 for further details.
The DC plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund.
Such contributions are based upon a xed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once the contributions have been paid.
Members bene ts are determined by the amount of contributions paid by the Group and the member, together with the investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals investments and how each member chooses to receive their retirement bene ts.
As a result, actuarial risk that bene ts will be lower than expected and investment risk that assets invested in will not perform in line with expectations fall on the employee.
At the year end, the fide ned contribution arrangement had some 53,661 active members last year 40,712 and some 12,866 deferred members last year 8,823.
The Group also operates a small funded DB pension scheme in the Republic of Ireland.
This scheme closed to future accrual on 31 October 2013.
Other retirement bene ts also include a UK post-retirement healthcare scheme and unfunded retirement bene ts.
The total Group retirement bene t cost was 198.4m last year 86.7m.
Of this, 148.0m last year 41.0m relates to the UK DB pension scheme including curtailment charges, 45.1m last year 40.3m to the UK DC plan and 5.3m last year 5.4m to other retirement bene t schemes.
109 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED By funding its DB pension schemes, the Group is exposed to the risk that the cost of meeting its obligations is higher than anticipated.
This could occur for several reasons, for example: Investment returns on the schemes assets may be lower than anticipated, especially if falls in asset values are not matched by similar falls in the value of the schemes liabilities.
The level of price in ation may be higher than that assumed, resulting in higher payments from the schemes.
Scheme members may live longer than assumed, for example due to advances in healthcare.
Members may also exercise or not exercise options in a way that lead to increases in the schemes liabilities, for example through early retirement or commutation of pension for cash.
Legislative changes could also lead to an increase in the schemes liabilities.
In addition, the Group is exposed to additional risks through its obligation to the UK DB pension scheme via its interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership see note 12.
In particular, under the legal terms of the Partnership, a default by the Group on the rental payments to the Partnership or a future change in legislation could trigger earlier or higher payments to the pension scheme, or an increase in the collateral to be provided by the Group.
Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities 2017 2016 m m Total market value of assets 10,135.1 8,515.3 Present value of scheme liabilities 9,433.3 7,682.3 Net funded pension plan asset 701.8 833.0 Unfunded retirement bene ts 1.0 0.9 Post-retirement healthcare 8.0 8.0 Net retirement bene t surplus 692.8 824.1 Analysed in the statement of financial position as: Retirement bene t asset 706.0 851.0 Retirement bene t fide cit 13.2 26.9 Net retirement bene t surplus 692.8 824.1 In the event of a plan wind-up, the pension scheme rules provide M&S with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities.
In the ordinary course of business, the Trustees have no rights to wind up or change the bene ts due to members of the scheme.
As a result, any net surplus in the UK DB pension scheme is recognised in full.
Financial assumptions The financial assumptions for the UK DB pension scheme and the most recent actuarial valuations of the other post-retirement schemes have been updated by independent quali ed actuaries to take account of the requirements of IAS 19 Employee Bene ts in order to assess the liabilities of the schemes and are as follows: 2017 2016 % % 1 Rate of increase in salaries N A 1.0 Rate of increase in pensions in payment for service 2.0-3.2 1.9-3.0 Discount rate 2.55 3.40 In ation rate 3.20 2.95 Long-term healthcare cost increases 7.20 6.95 1.
Rate of increase in salaries is no longer applicable as the UK DB pension scheme is closed to future accrual.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 110 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED C. Demographic assumptions The UK demographic assumptions are in line with those adopted for the last formal actuarial valuation of the scheme performed as at 31 March 2015.
The UK post-retirement mortality assumptions are based on an analysis of the pensioner mortality trends under the scheme for the period to March 2015.
The speci c mortality rates used are based on the VITA lite tables.
The life expectancies underlying the valuation are as follows: 2017 2016 Current pensioners at age 65 males 23.2 23.1 female 24.7 24.6 1 Future pensioners currently in active status at age 65 males N A 23.6 1 female N A 26.2 Future pensioners currently in deferred status at age 65 males 24.7 24.1 female 27.1 26.4 1.
No future pensioners currently in an active status.
All employees in the UK DB pension scheme are in deferred status due to the decision to close the scheme to future accrual from 1 April 2017.
D. Sensitivity analysis The table below summarises the estimated impact of changes in the principal actuarial assumptions on the UK DB pension scheme surplus: 2017 2016 m m Decrease in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the discount rate of 0.25% 70.0 90.0 Decrease in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the in ation rate of 0.25% 20.0 20.0 Increase in scheme surplus caused by a decrease in the average life expectancy of one year 370.0 300.0 The sensitivity analysis above is based on a change in one assumption while holding all others constant.
Therefore interdependencies between the assumptions have not been taken into account within the analysis.
E. Analysis of assets The investment strategy of the UK DB pension scheme is driven by its liability pro le, including its in ation-linked pension bene ts.
In addition to its interest in the Scottish Limited Partnership see note 12, the scheme invests in diff erent types of bonds including corporate bonds and gilts and derivative instruments including in ation, interest rate, cross-currency and total return swaps in order to align movements in the value of its assets with movements in its liabilities arising from changes in market conditions.
Broadly, the scheme has hedging that covers 92% of interest rate movements and 90% of in ation movements, as measured on the Trustees funding assumptions which use a discount rate derived from gilt yields.
The fair value of the total plan assets at the end of the reporting period for each category is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Debt investments 1 government bonds net of repurchase agreements 5,219.7 4,165.7 corporate bonds 901.9 1,058.2 asset-backed securities and structured debt 547.9 459.0 Scottish Limited Partnership interest see note 12 412.1 469.5 Equity investments quoted 1,504.0 1,047.5 Equity investments unquoted 315.1 236.7 Property 509.3 420.7 Derivatives interest and in ation rate swap contracts 28.9 101.5 foreign exchange contracts and other derivatives 204.2 142.0 Hedge and reinsurance funds 322.0 317.9 Cash and cash equivalents 158.3 190.5 Other 69.5 109.1 10,135.1 8,515.3 1.
Repurchase agreements were 1,333.9m last year 1,333.0m.
All pension assets have quoted prices in an active market with the exception of 1,444.9m last year 1,219.1m of unquoted assets.
The fair values of the above equity and debt investments are based on publicly available market prices wherever available.
Unquoted investments, hedge funds and reinsurance funds are stated at fair value estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
Property includes both quoted and unquoted investments.
The fair value of the Scottish Limited Partnership interest is based on the expected cash ows and benchmark asset-backed credit spreads.
It is the policy of the scheme to hedge a proportion of interest rate and in ation risk.
The scheme reduces its foreign currency exposure using forward foreign exchange contracts.
At year end, the UK schemes UK DB pension scheme and post-retirement healthcare indirectly held 193,506 last year 169,509 ordinary shares in the Company through its investment in UK Equity Index Funds.
111 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 11 RETIREMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED F. Analysis of amounts charged against pro ts Amounts recognised in comprehensive income in respect of retirement bene t plans are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Current service cost 96.5 98.0 Administration costs 3.2 3.0 Past service costs curtailment charge 128.0 1.0 Net interest income 29.3 15.3 Total 198.4 86.7 Remeasurement on the net fide ned bene t surplus: actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 1,543.8 156.3 actuarial gain experience 1.5 164.8 actuarial loss demographic assumptions 100.8 actuarial gain loss financial assumptions 1,614.2 438.5 Components of fide ned bene t cost recognised in other comprehensive income 68.9 346.2 G. Scheme assets Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Fair value of scheme assets at start of year 8,515.3 8,596.5 Interest income based on discount rate 284.9 262.4 Actual return on scheme assets excluding amounts included in net interest income 1,543.8 156.3 Employer contributions 137.0 118.4 Bene ts paid 347.7 311.7 Administration costs 3.0 3.0 Exchange movement 4.8 9.0 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 10,135.1 8,515.3 1.
The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of 1,828.7m last year gain of 106.1m.
H. Pensions and other post-retirement liabilities Changes in the present value of retirement bene t obligations are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Present value of obligation at start of year 7,691.2 8,147.5 Current service cost 96.5 98.0 Administration costs 0.2 Curtailment charge 128.0 1.0 Interest cost 255.6 247.1 Bene ts paid 347.7 311.7 Actuarial gain experience 1.5 164.8 Actuarial loss demographic assumptions 100.8 Actuarial loss gain financial assumptions 1,614.2 438.5 Exchange movement 5.8 11.8 Present value of obligation at end of year 9,442.3 7,691.2 Analysed as: Present value of pension scheme liabilities 9,433.3 7,682.3 Unfunded pension plans 1.0 0.9 Post-retirement healthcare 8.0 8.0 Present value of obligation at end of year 9,442.3 7,691.2 The average duration of the fide ned bene t obligation at 1 April 2017 is 19 years last year 18 years.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 112 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 MARKS AND SPENCER SCOTTISH LIMITED PARTNERSHIP Marks and Spencer plc is a general partner and the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme is a limited partner of the Marks and Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership the Partnership.
Under the partnership agreement, the limited partners have no involvement in the management of the business and shall not take any part in the control of the partnership.
The general partner is responsible for the management and control of the partnership and as such, the Partnership is consolidated into the results of the Group.
The Partnership holds 1.6bn last year 1.6bn of properties which have been leased back to Marks and Spencer plc at market rates.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the exibility to substitute alternative properties into the Partnership.
The first limited partnership interest held by the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme, entitles the Pension Scheme to receive an annual distribution of 71.9m until 2022 from the Partnership.
The second partnership interest also held by the Marks and Spencer UK Pension Scheme, entitles the Pension Scheme to receive a further 36.4m annually from 2017 until 2031.
The partnership liability in relation to the first interest of 396.5m last year 455.7m is valued at the net present value of the future expected distributions from the Partnership.
During the year to 1 April 2017 an interest charge of 12.6m last year 14.7m was recognised in the income statement representing the unwind of the discount included in this obligation.
The first limited partnership interest of the Pension Scheme is included within the UK DB Pension Scheme assets, valued at 412.1m last year 469.5m.
It is also included as a liability on the Group's statement of financial position as it is a transferable financial instrument.
The second partnership interest is not a transferable financial instrument and therefore is not included as a plan asset in accordance with IAS 19.
The associated liability is eliminated on consolidation.
13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS This year a charge of 10.6m was recognised for share-based payments last year charge of 16.0m.
Of the total share-based payments charge, 10.9m last year 9.5m relates to the Save As You Earn Scheme and a credit of 3.6m last year charge of 1.1m relates to the Performance Share Plan.
The remaining charge of 3.3m last year 5.4m is spread over the other share plans.
An additional charge of 1.3m was recognised in relation to the Annual Bonus Scheme for 2016 17 under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
Further details of the operation of the Group share plans are provided in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 78.
Save As You Earn Scheme The SAYE Scheme was last approved by shareholders in 2007 and shareholder approval is being sought at the 2017 AGM to renew the scheme for a further ten years.
Under the terms of the scheme, the Board may off er options to purchase ordinary shares in the Company once in each financial year to those employees who enter into an Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved SAYE savings contract.
The Company has chosen to cap the maximum monthly saving amount at 250 which is below the 500 per month allowed under HMRC approved schemes.
The price at which options may be off ered is 80% of the average mid-market price for three consecutive dealing days preceding the off er date.
The options may normally be exercised during the six-month period after the completion of the SAYE contract.
2017 2016 Number of Weighted average Number of Weighted average options exercise price options exercise price Outstanding at beginning of the year 30,154,547 393.3p 29,530,523 357.6p Granted 28,166,455 260.0p 10,437,215 432.0p Exercised 1,763,039 312.8p 6,645,922 302.6p Forfeited 12,881,484 391.8p 2,967,697 382.5p Expired 382,385 355.2p 199,572 317.2p Outstanding at end of year 43,294,094 310.6p 30,154,547 393.3p Exercisable at end of year 4,928,971 403.5p 1,936,860 315.3p For SAYE share options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 387.4p last year 443.9p.
The fair values of the options granted during the year have been calculated using the Black-Scholes model assuming the inputs shown below: 2017 2017 2017 2016 3-year plan 2016 3-year plan 2015 1 1 3-year plan modi ed modi ed 3-year plan Grant date Nov 16 Nov 16 Nov 16 Nov 15 Share price at grant date 335p 335p 335p 520p Exercise price 260p 432p 369p 432p Option life in years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Risk-free rate 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.9% Expected volatility 28.5% 28.5% 28.5% 23.4% Expected dividend yield 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% 3.7% Fair value of option 66p 19p 30p 96p Incremental fair value of option N A 47p 36p 1.
In the current year, there has been a modi cation to the 2017 scheme relating to employees cancelling awards from previous years in subsitution for awards granted under the 2017 scheme.
The fair value of the modi ed awards will be amortised based on the incremental fair value.
The incremental fair value is the diff erence between the fair value of the 2017 options, being 66p, and the fair value of repriced previous awards, calculated using 2017 award assumptions, keeping the initial exercise price consistent.
The fair value of the modi ed options, being 19p for 2016 modi ed options and 30p for 2015 modi ed options, is already recognised in operating pro t. 113 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS CONTINUED Volatility has been estimated by taking the historic volatility in the Company's share price over a three-year period.
The resulting fair value is expensed over the service period of three years on the assumption that 10% last year 10% of options will lapse over the service period as employees leave the Group.
Performance Share Plan The Performance Share Plan is the primary long-term incentive plan for approximately 120 of the most senior managers within the Group.
It was first approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and again at the 2015 AGM.
Under the plan, annual awards, based on a percentage of salary, may be off ered.
The extent to which an award vests is measured over a three-year period against financial targets which for 2016 17 included Adjusted Earnings Per Share, Return on Capital Employed and free cash ow.
The value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the three years will also be paid on vesting.
Further details are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 78.
Awards under this plan have been made in each year since 2005.
During the year, 7,569,499 shares last year 5,850,134 were awarded under the plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 328.0p last year 533.2p.
As at 1 April 2017, there were 14,816,764 shares last year 15,749,605 outstanding under the plan.
C. Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Deferred Share Bonus Plan was introduced in 2005 06 as part of the Annual Bonus Scheme for approximately 500 of the most senior managers within the Group.
As part of the Scheme, the managers are required to defer a proportion of any bonus paid into shares which will be held for three years.
There are no further performance conditions on these shares, other than continued employment within the Group and the value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the deferred period will also be paid on vesting.
During the year, 1,563,439 shares last year 1,044,961 have been awarded under the plan in relation to the annual bonus.
The fair value of the shares awarded was 355.8p last year 548.3p.
As at 1 April 2017, there were 3,033,709 shares last year 2,586,096 outstanding under the plan.
D. Restricted Share Plan The Restricted Share Plan was established in 2000 as part of the reward strategy for retention and recruitment of senior managers who are vital to the success of the business.
The plan operates for senior managers below executive director level.
Awards vest at the end of the restricted period typically between one and three years subject to the participant still being in the employment of the Company on the relevant vesting date.
The value of any dividends earned on the vested shares during the restricted period will also be paid on vesting.
During the year, 321,229 shares last year 221,681 have been awarded under the plan.
The weighted average fair value of the shares awarded was 326.6p last year 454.4p.
As at 1 April 2017, there were 888,027 shares last year 1,285,666 outstanding under the plan.
E. Republic of Ireland Save As You Earn Scheme Sharesave, the Companys SAYE Scheme was introduced in 2009 to all employees in the Republic of Ireland for a ten-year period, after approval by shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
The scheme is subject to Irish Revenue rules which limit the maximum monthly saving to 500 per month.
The Company chose in 2009 to set a monthly savings cap of 320 per month to align the maximum savings amount to that allowed within the UK scheme.
During the year, 324,768 options last year 160,113 were granted, at a fair value of 66.3p last year 95.6p.
As at 1 April 2017, there were 521,837 options last year 312,826 outstanding under the scheme.
F. Marks and Spencer Employee Bene t Trust The Marks and Spencer Employee Bene t Trust the Trust holds 2,173,101 last year 4,087,837 shares with a book value of 10.7m last year 20.6m and a market value of 7.3m last year 16.6m.
These shares were acquired by the Trust in the market and are shown as a reduction in retained earnings in the consolidated statement of financial position.
Awards are granted to employees at the discretion of Marks and Spencer plc and the Trust agrees to satisfy the awards in accordance with the wishes of Marks and Spencer plc under senior executive share plans described above.
Dividends are waived on all of these shares.
G. ShareBuy ShareBuy, the Companys Share Incentive Plan enables the participants to buy shares directly from their gross salary.
This scheme does not attract an IFRS 2 charge.
For the purposes of calculating the number of shares awarded, the share price used is the average of the mid-market price for the five consecutive dealing days preceding the grant date.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 114 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer software Computer under Goodwill Brands software development Total m m m m m At 28 March 2015 Cost or valuation 129.7 112.5 1,087.7 86.6 1,416.5 Accumulated amortisation and impairments 34.4 55.8 466.9 1.2 558.3 Net book value 95.3 56.7 620.8 85.4 858.2 Year ended 2 April 2016 Opening net book value 95.3 56.7 620.8 85.4 858.2 Additions 6.2 92.9 93.9 193.0 Transfers 91.2 91.2 Asset impairments 19.1 32.5 22.1 73.7 Asset write-off s 11.9 14.5 26.4 Amortisation charge 5.3 143.4 148.7 Exchange diff erence 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.4 Closing net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 At 2 April 2016 Cost or valuation 136.2 112.3 1,272.0 89.4 1,609.9 Accumulated amortisation, impairments and write-off s 53.5 93.6 644.3 15.7 807.1 Net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 Year ended 1 April 2017 Opening net book value 82.7 18.7 627.7 73.7 802.8 Additions 0.3 100.8 101.1 Transfers 95.8 107.6 11.8 Asset impairments 6.1 5.1 1.0 Asset write-off s 9.6 2.9 12.5 Amortisation charge 5.3 162.1 167.4 1 Other 5.5 5.5 Exchange diff erence 1.2 0.2 0.1 1.3 Closing net book value 78.4 13.4 558.4 58.8 709.0 At 1 April 2017 Cost or valuation 137.4 112.3 1,368.3 82.5 1,700.5 Accumulated amortisation, impairments and write-off s 59.0 98.9 809.9 23.7 991.5 Net book value 78.4 13.4 558.4 58.8 709.0 Goodwill relates to the following: per una India UK Total goodwill m m m m Net book value at 2 April 2016 69.5 7.0 6.2 82.7 Exchange diff erence 1.2 1.2 1 Other 5.5 5.5 Net book value at 1 April 2017 69.5 8.2 0.7 78.4 1.
Other adjustments relate to the adjustment of provision values for business combinations related to the acquisition of Lima Bradford S. r. l in the prior year.
115 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Impairment testing Goodwill is not amortised but tested annually for impairment with the recoverable amount being determined from value in use calculations.
Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash-generating units CGUs which include the combined retail and wholesale businesses for each location.
The costs in relation to the per una brand are 80.0m net book value 13.4m.
The per una brand is a fide nite life intangible asset amortised on a straight-line basis over a period of 15 years and is only assessed for impairment where such indicators exist.
The value in use calculations are based on the Groups latest budget and forecast cash ows, covering a three-year period, which have regard to historic performance and knowledge of the current market, together with the Groups views on the future achievable growth and the impact of committed cash ows.
The cash ows include ongoing capital expenditure required to maintain the store network, but exclude any growth capital initiatives not committed.
Cash ows beyond this three-year period are extrapolated using a at long-term growth rate for the UK and with reference to forecast GDP growth for India.
These growth rates do not exceed the long-term growth rates for the Groups retail businesses in these territories.
While management believes the assumptions used are realistic, it is possible that a further impairment could be identi ed for per una, Bradford or India if any of the above key assumptions were changed signi cantly.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed on each of these key assumptions with other variables held constant.
Management has concluded that there are no reasonably possible changes in any key assumptions that would cause the carrying amount of goodwill or brands to exceed the value in use.
Additions to property, plant and equipment during the year amounting to nil last year nil were nanced by finance leases.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 116 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED Impairment of property, plant and equipment For impairment testing purposes, the Group has determined that each store is a separate CGU with the exception of outlet stores which are considered together as one CGU.
Each CGU is tested for impairment at the balance sheet date if any indicators of impairment have been identi ed.
The recoverable value of each CGU is determined to be the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
The value in use of each CGU is calculated based on the Groups latest budget and forecast cash ows, covering a three-year period, which have regard to historic performance and knowledge of the current market, together with the Groups views on the future achievable growth and the impact of committed initiatives.
Cash ows beyond this three-year period are extrapolated using a at long-term growth rate for UK stores and with reference to forecast GDP growth for other territories.
These growth rates do not exceed the long-term growth rate for the Groups retail businesses in these territories.
The key assumptions in the value in use calculations are the growth rates of sales and gross pro t margins, changes in the operating cost base, long-term growth rates and the risk-adjusted pre-tax discount rate.
The pre-tax discount rates are derived from the Groups weighted average cost of capital, taking into account the cost of capital and borrowings, to which speci c market-related premium adjustments are made for each territory.
The pre-tax discount rates range from 7% to 21% last year 7% to 24%.
Where appropriate, fair value less cost to sell is determined with regard to the expected rent and yield for each property and re ect the speci c characteristics relevant to each property and the location in which it is based.
The fair values have been determined with the assistance of independent, professional valuers.
During the year the Group has recognised a net impairment charge of 43.4m gross impairment charge of 47.5m off set by an impairment reversal of 4.1m as a result of store impairment testing.
The gross impairment charge relates primarily to stores in the UK and Hong Kong, with the reversal of impairment relating to stores in Ireland due largely to the movement in the Sterling to Euro currency rate.
These impairments, including the reversal, have been recognised within adjusted items see Note 5.
The Group has performed a sensitivity analysis on the impairment tests for its UK store portfolio using various reasonably possible scenarios.
An increase of one percentage point in the post-tax discount rate would have resulted in an increase to the impairment charge of 6.5m.
Neither a 2% reduction in year one sales growth nor a 20bps reduction in total UK margin would result in a signi cant increase to the impairment charge.
In addition the Group has recognised additional impairment charges of 27.3m associated with stores approved for closure during the year, 13.1m associated with the exit from owned stores in ten international markets and 5.7m associated with the rationalisation of UK Head Offi ces.
Off setting these charges were impairment reversals of 7.4m following an updated view of the logistics strategy.
These net charges have been recognised within adjusted items see Note 5.
16 OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS 2017 2016 m m Non-current Unlisted investments 3.0 3.0 Current Short-term investments 14.5 19.1 1.
Includes 5.3m last year 3.6m of money market deposit held by Marks and Spencer plc in an escrow account Non-current unlisted investments are carried as available-for-sale assets.
Other financial assets are measured at fair value with changes in their value taken to the income statement.
17 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 2017 2016 m m Non-current Other receivables 15.1 12.9 Prepayments and accrued income 219.0 221.8 234.1 234.7 Current Trade receivables 111.0 116.5 Less: provision for impairment of receivables 1.7 0.7 Trade receivables net 109.3 115.8 Other receivables 28.5 50.4 Prepayments and accrued income 180.8 154.9 318.6 321.1 Trade and other receivables that were past due but not impaired amounted to 20.8m last year 19.6m and are mainly sterling denominated.
The directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
Included in prepayments and accrued income is 31.5m last year 19.4m of accrued supplier income relating to rebates which have been earned but not yet invoiced.
Supplier income that has been invoiced but not yet settled against future trade creditor balances is included within trade creditors where there is a right to off set.
The remaining amount is immaterial.
117 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Cash and cash equivalents are 468.6m last year 247.6m.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
The eff ective interest rate on short-term bank deposits is 0.21% last year 0.51%.
These deposits have an average maturity of eight days last year 48 days.
19 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2016 m m Current Trade and other payables 967.5 1,021.9 Social security and other taxes 55.0 49.8 Accruals and deferred income 531.3 546.0 1,553.8 1,617.7 Non-current Other payables, accruals and deferred income 328.5 353.0 20 BORROWINGS AND OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2017 2016 m m Current 1 Bank loans and overdrafts 70.3 297.1 Finance lease liabilities 0.4 0.4 3&4 6.250% US$500m medium-term notes 2017 328.1 6 Interest accrued on medium-term notes 46.4 6 Revaluation of medium-term notes 72.8 518.0 297.5 Non-current Bank loans 0.2 3&4 6.250% US$500m medium-term notes 2017 327.9 2&5 6.125% 400m medium-term notes 2019 400.2 399.3 2 6.125% 300m medium-term notes 2021 297.8 297.3 2 3.00% 300m medium-term notes 2023 296.3 2&5 4.750% 400m medium-term notes 2025 397.1 396.8 3&4 7.125% US$300m medium-term notes 2037 191.9 191.8 6 Interest accrued on medium-term notes 42.2 6 Revaluation of medium-term notes 80.1 71.0 Finance lease liabilities 48.3 48.2 1,711.7 1,774.7 Total 2,229.7 2,072.2 1.
Bank loans and overdrafts include a 5.0m last year 5.0m loan from the Hedge End Park Limited joint venture.
These notes are issued under Marks and Spencer plcs 3bn European medium-term note programme and all pay interest annually.
Interest on these bonds is payable semi-annually.
US$500m and US$300m medium-term notes exposure swapped to sterling xed-toxed cross-currency interest rate swaps.
The Group occasionally enters into interest swaps to manage interest rate exposure.
At year end, 425m last year 425m was swapped from xed to oating rate.
The prior year comparatives have been split to show the interest accrued on medium-term notes and revaluation of medium-term notes on individual line items to be in line with the format of the current year note disclosure.
Finance leases The minimum lease payments under finance leases fall due as shown in the table on the following page.
It is the Groups policy to lease certain properties and equipment under finance leases.
The weighted average lease term for equipment is three years last year four years and 95 years last year 96 years for property.
Interest rates are xed at the contract rate.
All leases are on a xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent payments.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors charges over the leased assets.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 118 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Treasury policy The Group operates a centralised treasury function to manage the Groups funding requirements and financial risks in line with the Board approved treasury policies and procedures, and their delegated authorities.
The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various items, such as trade receivables and trade payables that arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
The Group treasury function also enters into derivative transactions, principally interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and forward currency contracts.
The purpose of these transactions is to manage the interest rate and foreign currency risks arising from the Groups operations and nancing.
It remains the Groups policy not to hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes, except where financial constraints necessitate the liquidation of any outstanding investments.
The treasury function is managed as a cost centre and does not engage in speculative trading.
Financial risk management The principal financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity and funding, counterparty, foreign currency and interest rate risks.
The policies and strategies for managing these risks are summarised on the following pages: a Liquidity and funding risk The risk that the Group could be unable to settle or meet its obligations at a reasonable price as they fall due.
The Groups funding strategy ensures a mix of funding sources off ering suffi cient headroom, maturity and exibility and cost eff ectiveness to match the requirements of the Group.
Marks and Spencer plc is nanced by a combination of retained pro ts, bank borrowings, medium-term notes and committed syndicated bank facilities.
Operating subsidiaries are nanced by a combination of retained pro ts, bank borrowings and intercompany loans.
At the year end, the Group had a committed syndicated bank revolving credit facility of 1.1bn set to mature on 15 April 2022.
During the current financial year, the Group extended the facility by one year.
This facility contains only one financial covenant, being the ratio of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and rents payable, to interest plus rents payable.
The covenant is measured semiannually.
The Group also has a number of undrawn uncommitted facilities available to it.
At the year end, these amounted to 150m last year 100m, all of which are due to be reviewed within a year.
At the balance sheet date, a sterling equivalent of nil last year 205m was drawn under the committed facilities and nil last year 30m was drawn under the uncommitted facilities.
In addition to the existing borrowings, the Group has a Euro Medium Term Note programme of 3bn, of which 1.4bn last year 1.1bn was in issuance as at the balance sheet date.
A new 300m bond, set to mature in 2023, was issued under the Euro Medium Term Note programme during the financial year.
Derivative cash ows are disclosed based on actual settlement.
All derivatives are settled net, except for currency swaps.
119 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued a Liquidity and funding risk continued The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 0.4 0.4 Later than one year and not later than five years 1.6 1.6 Later than five years 46.7 46.6 Total 48.7 48.6 b Counterparty risk Counterparty risk exists where the Group can suff er financial loss through default or non-performance by financial institutions with whom it transacts.
Exposures are managed in accordance with the Groups treasury policy which limits the value that can be placed with each approved counterparty to minimise the risk of loss.
The minimum long-term rating for all counterparties is long-term Standard & Poors AMoodys A3 BBB Baa1 for committed lending banks.
In the event of a rating by one agency being diff erent to the other, reference will be made to Fitch to determine the casting vote of the rating group.
In the absence of a Fitch rating, the lower rating will prevail.
Limits are reviewed regularly by senior management.
The credit risk of these financial instruments is estimated as the fair value of the assets resulting from the contracts.
The table below analyses the Groups short-term investments and derivative assets by credit exposure excluding bank balances, store cash and cash in transit.
Includes cash on deposit and money market funds held by Marks & Spencer Scottish Limited Partnership, Marks and Spencer plc and Marks and Spencer General Insurance.
Excludes cash at hand and in transit of 116.9m last year 98.4m.
Standard & Poors equivalent rating shown as reference to the majority credit rating of the counterparty from either Standard & Poors, Moodys or Fitch where applicable.
The Group has very low retail credit risk due to transactions being principally of a high volume, low value and short maturity.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at the balance sheet date was as follows: trade receivables 111m last year 114m, other receivables 44m last year 63m, cash and cash equivalents 469m last year 248m and derivatives 220m last year 146m.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 120 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued c Foreign currency risk Transactional foreign currency exposures arise primarily from the import of goods sourced from overseas suppliers and also from the export of goods from the UK to overseas subsidiaries.
The most signi cant exposure is to the US dollar incurred in the sourcing of clothing and home products from Asia.
Group Treasury hedges these exposures principally using forward foreign exchange contracts progressively based on dynamic forecasts from the business.
Hedging begins around 15 months ahead of the start of the season and is between 80% and 100% hedged nine months before the start of the season.
Other exposures from the export of goods to overseas subsidiaries are also hedged progressively over the course of the year before they are incurred.
As at the balance sheet date, the gross notional value in sterling terms of forward foreign exchange sell or buy contracts amounted to 2,023m last year 1,640m with a weighted average maturity date of six months last year five months.
Gains and losses in equity on forward foreign exchange contracts designated in cash ow hedge relationships as at 1 April 2017 will be released to the income statement at various dates over the following 17 months last year 15 months from the balance sheet date.
The Group also holds a number of cross-currency swaps to designate its xed rate US dollar debt to xed rate sterling debt.
These are reported as cash ow hedges.
The Group uses a combination of foreign currency debt and derivatives to hedge balance sheet translation exposures.
As at the balance sheet date 26m last year nil and HK$190m last year HK$1,245m of derivatives were hedging overseas net assets.
The Group also hedges foreign currency intercompany loans where these exist.
Forward foreign exchange contracts in relation to the hedging of the Groups foreign currency intercompany loans are designated as held for trading with fair value movements being recognised in the income statement.
The corresponding fair value movement of the intercompany loan balance resulted in a 2.3m gain last year nil in the income statement.
As at the balance sheet date, the gross notional value of intercompany loan hedges was 367m last year 289m.
After taking into account the hedging derivatives entered into by the Group, the currency and interest rate exposure of the Groups financial liabilities, excluding short-term payables and the liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme, is set out below: 2017 2016 Fixed rate Floating rate Total Fixed rate Floating rate Total m m m m m m Currency Sterling 1,727.8 492.3 2,220.1 1,343.7 716.7 2,060.4 Euro 6.6 0.7 7.3 6.2 0.8 7.0 Other 0.1 2.2 2.3 0.1 4.7 4.8 1,734.5 495.2 2,229.7 1,350.0 722.2 2,072.2 The oating rate sterling and euro borrowings are linked to interest rates related to LIBOR.
These rates are for periods between one and six months.
As at the balance sheet date and excluding finance leases, the xed rate sterling borrowings are at an average rate of 5.0% last year 5.3% and the weighted average time for which the rate is xed is six years last year seven years.
d Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk in relation to sterling, US dollar and euro variable rate financial assets and liabilities.
The Groups policy is to use derivative contracts where necessary to maintain a mix of xed and oating rate borrowings to manage this risk.
The structure and maturity of these derivatives correspond to the underlying borrowings and are accounted for as fair value or cash ow hedges as appropriate.
At the balance sheet date, xed rate borrowings amounted to 1,734.5m last year 1,350.0m representing the public bond issues and finance leases, amounting to 78% last year 65% of the Groups gross borrowings.
The eff ective interest rates at the balance sheet date were as follows: 2017 2016 % % Committed and uncommitted borrowings 0.3 1.0 Medium-term notes 5.0 5.3 Finance leases 4.3 4.1 121 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Financial risk management continued d Interest rate risk continued Derivative financial instruments 2017 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Current Cross-currency swaps cash ow hedges 72.6 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 89.1 9.0 69.7 26.7 held for trading 0.7 1.5 1.6 1.8 net investment hedges 0.7 0.8 163.1 10.5 72.1 28.5 Non-current Cross-currency swaps cash ow hedges 14.0 27.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash ow hedges 1.3 0.8 5.4 0.2 Interest rate swaps fair value hedges 41.5 41.3 56.8 0.8 74.0 0.2 The Group holds a number of interest rate swaps to re-designate its sterling xed debt to oating debt.
These are reported as fair value hedges.
The ineff ective portion recognised in the pro t or loss that arises from fair value hedges amounts to 0.3m last year 0.2m as the loss on the hedged items was 0.3m last year 3.0m loss and the gain on the hedging instruments was nil last year 2.8m gain.
The Group also holds a number of cross-currency swaps to re-designate its xed rate US dollar debt to xed rate sterling debt.
Sensitivity analysis The table below illustrates the estimated impact on the income statement and equity as a result of market movements in foreign exchange and interest rates in relation to the Group's financial instruments.
The directors consider that a 2% - last year 2% movement in interest and a 20% - last year 20% weakening in sterling against the relevant currency represents a reasonably possible change.
However, this analysis is for illustrative purposes only.
The table excludes financial instruments that expose the Group to interest rate and foreign exchange risk where such risk is fully hedged with another financial instrument.
Also excluded are trade receivables and payables as these are either sterling denominated or the foreign exchange risk is hedged.
Interest rates: the impact in the income statement due to changes in interest rates re ects the eff ect on the Group's oating rate debt as at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity re ects the fair value movement in relation to the Group's transactional foreign exchange cash ow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The impact in equity re ects the fair value movement in relation to the Group's cross-currency swaps.
Foreign exchange: the impact from foreign exchange movements re ects the change in the fair value of the Group's transactional foreign exchange cash ow hedges and the net investment hedges at the balance sheet date.
The equity impact shown for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging net investments.
This value is expected to be fully off set by the re-translation of the hedged foreign currency net assets leaving a net equity impact of zero.
2% decrease in 2% increase in 20% weakening 20% strengthening interest rates interest rates in sterling in sterling m m m m At 2 April 2016 Impact on income statement: gain loss 9.2 11.1 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 0.8 1.0 136.0 90.7 At 1 April 2017 Impact on income statement: gain loss 7.8 2.1 Impact on other comprehensive income: loss gain 2.2 0.3 246.4 164.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 122 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Off setting of financial assets and liabilities The following tables set out the financial assets and financial liabilities which are subject to off setting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements.
Amounts which are set off against financial assets and liabilities in the Group's balance sheet are set out below.
For trade and other receivables and trade and other payables, amounts not off set in the balance sheet but which could be off set under certain circumstances are also set out.
Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in Gross financial liabilities per statement of the statement of assets liabilities assets set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 2 April 2016 Trade and other receivables 31.6 29.5 2.1 2.1 Derivative financial assets 146.1 146.1 28.7 117.4 Cash and cash equivalents 39.3 39.3 217.0 68.8 148.2 28.7 119.5 Trade and other payables 259.3 29.5 229.8 229.8 Derivative financial liabilities 28.7 28.7 28.7 Bank loans and overdrafts 90.8 39.3 51.5 51.5 378.8 68.8 310.0 28.7 281.3 Net financial Related amounts Gross financial assets liabilities not set off in Gross financial liabilities per statement of the statement of assets liabilities assets set off financial position financial position Net m m m m m At 1 April 2017 Trade and other receivables 25.1 22.8 2.3 2.3 Derivative financial assets 219.9 219.9 11.3 208.6 Cash and cash equivalents 42.4 41.6 0.8 0.8 287.4 64.4 223.0 11.3 211.7 Trade and other payables 279.2 22.8 256.4 256.4 Derivative financial liabilities 11.3 11.3 11.3 Bank loans and overdrafts 103.9 41.6 62.3 62.3 394.4 330.0 11.3 318.7 The gross financial assets and liabilities set off in the balance sheet primarily relate to cash pooling arrangements with banks.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for off setting on the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Fair Value Hierarchy The Group uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments by valuation technique: Level 1: quoted unadjusted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities.
Level 2: not traded in an active market but the fair values are based on quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
The Groups Level 2 financial instruments include interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.
Fair value is calculated using discounted cash ow methodology, future cash ows are estimated based on forward exchange rates and interest rates from observable market curves and contract rates, discounted at a rate that re ects the credit risk of the various counterparties for those with a long maturity.
Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a signi cant eff ect on the recorded fair value that are not based on observable market data.
123 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED Fair Value Hierarchy continued At the end of the reporting period, the Group held the following financial instruments at fair value: 2017 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m m m m m Assets measured at fair value Financial assets at fair value through pro t or loss trading derivatives 0.7 0.7 1.4 1.4 Derivatives used for hedging 219.2 219.2 144.7 144.7 Shortterm investments 14.5 14.5 19.1 19.1 Liabilities measured at fair value Financial liabilities at fair value through pro t or loss trading derivatives 1.5 1.5 1.8 1.8 Derivatives used for hedging 9.8 9.8 26.9 26.9 The Marks & Spencer DB Pension Schemes holds a number of financial instruments which make up the pension asset of 10,135.1m last year 8,515.3m.
Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income amounted to 8,690.2m last year 7,296.2m.
Additionally, the pension scheme assets include 1,444.9m last year 1,219.1m of Level 3 financial assets.
See note 11 for information on the Group's retirement bene ts.
There were no transfers between the levels of the fair value hierarchy.
In addition to the above, the Group has 3.0m last year 3.0m in unlisted equity securities measured at cost see note 16.
The following table represents the changes in Level 3 instruments held by the Pension Schemes: 2017 2016 m m Opening balance 1,219.1 1,093.6 Fair value gain recognised in other comprehensive income 100.6 70.3 Additional investment derecognition 125.2 55.2 Closing balance 1,444.9 1,219.1 In the prior year the Group purchased Lima Bradford S. r. l. This resulted in the derecognition of the embedded derivative as the lease contract was between subsidiaries of the Group.
Gains recognised in the prior year income statement related to the valuation of the embedded derivative in the lease contract up until the acquisition date.
The fair value movement of the embedded derivative of 2.0m loss and subsequent derecognition of the asset 21.7m was treated as an adjustment to reported pro t in the prior year see note 5.
Fair value of financial instruments With the exception of the Groups xed rate bond debt and the Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme, there were no material diff erences between the carrying value of non-derivative financial assets and financial liabilities and their fair values as at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of the Groups xed rate bond debt Level 1 equivalent was 2,110.7m last year 1,726.4m : the fair value of this debt was 2,236.7m last year 1,868.3m.
Capital policy The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide optimal returns for shareholders and to maintain an effi cient capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In doing so, the Groups strategy is to maintain a capital structure commensurate with an investment grade credit rating and to retain appropriate levels of liquidity headroom to ensure financial stability and exibility.
To achieve this strategy the Group regularly monitors key credit metrics such as the gearing ratio, cash ow to net debt see note 27 and xed charge cover to maintain this position.
In addition, the Group ensures a combination of appropriate committed short-term liquidity headroom with a diverse and balanced long-term debt maturity pro le.
As at the balance sheet date, the Groups average debt maturity pro le was seven years last year eight years.
During the year, the Group maintained an investment grade credit rating of Baa3 stable with Moodys and BBBstable with Standard & Poors.
In order to maintain or realign the capital structure, the Group may adjust the number of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 124 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 PROVISIONS Property Restructuring Other 2017 2016 m m m m m At 2 April 2016 52.4 9.8 3.8 66.0 78.3 Provided in the year 104.5 116.8 24.7 246.0 40.0 Released in the year 19.4 5.8 1.1 26.3 31.5 Utilised during the year 9.4 20.9 0.1 30.2 21.6 Exchange diff erences 0.4 2.9 0.1 3.4 0.4 Discount rate unwind 0.2 0.2 0.4 Reclassi cation from trade and other payables 1.2 2.8 1.6 At 1 April 2017 128.7 101.6 30.4 260.7 66.0 Analysed as: Current 147.2 14.0 Non-current 113.5 52.0 Property provisions relate to onerous lease contracts and dilapidations primarily arising as a result of the closure of stores in the UK, as part of the UK store estate strategic programme, together with the centralisation of the London Head Offi ce functions into one central London location.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the period to the end of each speci c lease.
Restructuring provisions primarily relate to the estimated costs associated with the International exit strategy which include lease exit costs.
These provisions are expected to be utilised within the next year.
Other provisions include 23.6m of transition payments due following completion of the consultation in respect of pay and premia.
Please see note 5 for further information on these provisions.
23 DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is provided under the balance sheet liability method using the tax rate at which the balances are expected to unwind of 19% and 17% last year 20%, 19% and 18% for UK diff erences and local tax rates for overseas diff erences.
Details of the changes to the UK corporation tax rate and the impact on the Group are described in note 7.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities after the off setting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12 Income Taxes during the year are shown below.
Deferred tax assets liabilities : Land and buildings Capital allowances Pension Other short-term temporary in excess temporary temporary Total UK Overseas diff erences of depreciation diff erences diff erences deferred tax deferred tax Total m m m m m m m At 28 March 2015 47.0 106.0 154.8 3.1 310.9 3.2 314.1 Credited charged to income statement 6.4 25.9 0.7 3.0 36.0 2.5 33.5 Credited charged to equity other comprehensive income 51.4 1.8 53.2 2.4 50.8 Other balance sheet movement 6.2 6.2 6.2 At 2 April 2016 46.8 80.1 205.5 1.9 334.3 3.3 337.6 At 3 April 2016 46.8 80.1 205.5 1.9 334.3 3.3 337.6 Credited charged to income statement 3.5 17.7 14.5 1.4 37.1 0.7 36.4 Credited charged to equity other comprehensive income 21.6 4.8 26.4 5.2 21.2 Other balance sheet movement 1.6 1.6 0.2 1.8 At 1 April 2017 43.3 62.4 169.4 2.7 272.4 9.4 281.8 Other short-term temporary diff erences relate mainly to employee share options and financial instruments.
Other balance sheet movements, categorised as other short-term temporary diff erences, include 1.4m in relation to recognition of a deferred tax liability on the acquisition of the remaining 50% stake in Lima Bradford S. r. l. The deferred tax liability on land and buildings temporary diff erences is reduced by the bene t of capital losses with a gross value of 254.5m last year 249.5m and a tax value of 48.4m last year 49.9m.
125 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 DEFERRED TAX CONTINUED Due to uncertainty over their future use, no bene t has been recognised in respect of trading losses carried forward in overseas jurisdictions with a gross value of 147.9m last year 106.6m and a tax value of 34.2m last year 22.3m.
No deferred tax is recognised in respect of undistributed earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures unless a material liability is expected to arise on an anticipated distribution of these earnings under applicable tax legislation.
Undistributed earnings with a gross value of 38.2m last year 30.6m and a potential tax liability of 9.0m last year 7.2m have not been recognised on the basis that the distribution can be controlled by the Group.
24 ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL 2017 2016 Shares m Shares m Issued and fully paid ordinary shares of 25p each At start of year 1,622,964,807 405.8 1,647,814,746 412.0 Shares issued on exercise of share options 1,763,039 0.4 6,797,209 1.7 Shares cancelled through share buy back 31,647,148 7.9 At end of year 1,624,727,846 406.2 1,622,964,807 405.8 Issue of new shares 1,763,039 last year 6,797,209 ordinary shares having a nominal value of 0.4m last year 1.7m were allotted during the year under the terms of the Company's schemes which are described in note 13.
The aggregate consideration received was 5.5m last year 20.6m.
Share buy back Last year 31,647,148 ordinary shares having a nominal value of 7.9m were bought back and subsequently cancelled during the year.
The aggregate consideration paid, including directly attributable costs was 150.7m.
There was no buyback programme in the current year.
Capital commitments 2017 2016 m m Commitments in respect of properties in the course of construction 156.4 129.2 Software capital commitments 11.0 17.1 167.4 146.3 B.
Other material contracts In the event of a material change in the trading arrangements with certain warehouse operators, the Group has a commitment to purchase property, plant and equipment which are currently owned and operated by the warehouse operators on the Groups behalf at values ranging from historical net book value to market value.
See note 12 for details on the Partnership arrangement with the Marks & Spencer UK DB Pension Scheme.
C. Commitments under operating leases The Group leases various stores, offi ces, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
2017 2016 m m Total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Within one year 342.0 311.3 Later than one year and not later than five years 1,115.9 1,108.4 Later than five years and not later than ten years 964.1 1,099.4 Later than ten years and not later than 15 years 421.9 542.8 Later than 15 years and not later than 20 years 285.3 351.9 Later than 20 years and not later than 25 years 166.8 225.8 Later than 25 years 1,069.5 970.3 Total 4,365.5 4,609.9 The total non-cancellable future sub-lease payments to be received are 34.6m last year 36.1m.
Of the total commitments under operating leases disclosed above, 70m are already provided for on the balance sheet with regards to expected lease exit costs arising from the International strategic programme.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 126 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 ANALYSIS OF CASH FLOWS GIVEN IN THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Cash ows from operating activities 2017 2016 m m Pro t on ordinary activities after taxation 115.7 404.4 Income tax expense 60.7 84.4 Finance costs 113.0 116.4 Finance income 36.2 21.1 Operating pro t 253.2 584.1 Depreciation, amortisation and asset impairments and write-off s before adjusted items 589.5 576.8 Share-based payments charge 10.6 16.0 Pension costs charged against operating pro t 100.3 102.0 Adjusted pro t items 437.4 200.8 Decrease increase in inventories 53.9 22.5 Increase decrease in receivables 9.9 3.3 Decrease increase in payables 53.1 32.4 Adjusted items cash out ows 36.8 12.9 Adjusted items non-cash 44.1 50.3 Cash contributions to pension schemes 135.3 118.4 Cash generated from operations 1,165.7 1,311.3 Adjusted items cash out ows relate to the utilisation of the provisions for international store closures, strategic programme costs associated with the UK store estate, UK organisation and UK logistics and legal settlements.
Adjusted items non-cash relate to the reduction in M&S Bank income for the impact of the financial product mis-selling provision.
27 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT A. Reconciliation of movement in net debt Exchange and At 3 April other non-cash At 1 April 2016 Cash ow movements 2017 m m m m Net cash Bank loans, overdrafts and syndicated bank facility see note 20 297.3 237.2 10.2 70.3 Less: amounts treated as nancing see below 245.7 248.0 10.2 7.9 51.6 10.8 62.4 Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 247.6 215.4 5.6 468.6 Net cash per statement of cash ows 196.0 204.6 5.6 406.2 Current financial assets see note 16 19.1 4.6 14.5 Debt nancing Bank loans, and overdrafts treated as nancing see above 245.7 248.0 10.2 7.9 Medium-term notes see note 20 1,613.8 300.0 2.4 1,911.4 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.6 2.0 2.1 48.7 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see note 12 445.3 57.9 387.4 Debt nancing 2,353.4 7.9 9.9 2,355.4 Net debt 2,138.3 207.9 4.3 1,934.7 127 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT CONTINUED B. Reconciliation of net debt to statement of financial position 2017 2016 m m Statement of financial position and related notes Cash and cash equivalents see note 18 468.6 247.6 Current financial assets see note 16 14.5 19.1 Bank loans and overdrafts see note 20 70.3 297.3 Medium-term notes net of hedging derivatives 1,957.8 1,656.1 Finance lease liabilities see note 20 48.7 48.6 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme see notes 12 and 21 396.5 455.7 1,990.2 2,191.0 Interest payable included within related borrowing and the Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme 55.5 52.7 Total net debt 1,934.7 2,138.3 28 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS A.
Subsidiaries Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries are disclosed in the Companys separate financial statements.
Hedge End joint venture A loan of 5.0m was received from the joint venture on 9 October 2002.
It is repayable on five business days notice and was renewed on 1 January 2015.
Interest was charged on the loan at 2.0% until 31 December 2009 and 0.5% thereafter.
C. Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme Details of other transactions and balances held with the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme are set out in notes 11 and 12.
D. Key management compensation The Group has determined that the key management personnel constitute the Board for the whole year and the members of the Operating Committee with eff ect from November 2016, when the terms of reference of the Operating Committee were rati ed.
For the whole of the prior year the Group had determined that only members of the Board were key management personnel.
2017 2016 m m Salaries and short-term bene ts 8.1 7.5 Share-based payments 0.3 Total 8.1 7.8 E. Other related party transactions There were no related party transactions during the year to 1 April 2017.
Last year, supplier transactions occurred between the Group and a company controlled by Martha Lane Foxs partner.
Martha was a non-executive director of the Group, retiring from the Board on 2 April 2016.
These transactions amounted to 2.6m during the year with an outstanding trade payable of 0.2m at 2 April 2016.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
