218 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Definition of terms Unaudited information 2G 2G networks are operated using global system for mobile GSM technology which offers services such as voice, text messaging and low speed data.
In addition, all the Groups controlled networks support general packet radio services GPRS, often referred to as 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile devices to access IP based data services such as the internet and email.
3G A cellular technology based on wide band code division multiple access delivering voice and faster dataservices.
4G LTE 4G or long-term evolution LTE technology offers even faster data transfer speeds than 3G HSPA.
5G 5G is the coming fifth-generation wireless broadband technology which will provide better speeds and coverage than the current 4G.
Adjusted EBIT Operating profit excluding share of results in associates and joint ventures, impairment losses, amortisation of customer bases and brand intangible assets restructuring costs arising from discrete restructuring plans and other income and expense.
The Groups definition of adjusted EBIT may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
Adjusted EBITDA Operating profit excluding share of results in associates and joint ventures, depreciation and amortisation, gains losses on the disposal of fixed assets, impairment losses, restructuring costs arising from discrete restructuring plans and other income and expense.
The Groups definition of adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable with similarly titled measures and disclosures by other companies.
Adjusted operating profit Group adjusted operating profit excludes impairment losses, restructuring costs arising from discrete restructuring plans, amortisation of customer bases and brand intangible assets and other income and expense.
ADR American depositary receipts is a mechanism designed to facilitate trading in shares of non-US companies inthe US stock markets.
The main purpose is to create an instrument which can easily be settled through USstock market clearing systems.
ADS American depositary shares are shares evidenced by American depositary receipts.
ADSs are issued by a depositary bank and represent one or more shares of a non-US issuer held by the depositary bank.
The main purpose of ADSs is to facilitate trading in shares of non-US companies in the US markets and, accordingly, ADRs which evidence ADSs are in a form suitable for holding in US clearing systems.
AMAP The Groups region: Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
Applications apps Apps are software applications usually designed to run on a smartphone or tablet device and provide a convenient means for the user to perform certain tasks.
They cover a wide range of activities including banking, ticket purchasing, travel arrangements, social networking and games.
For example, the MyVodafoneapp lets customers check their bill totals on their smartphone and see the minutes, texts and data allowance remaining.
ARPU Average revenue per user, defined as customer revenue and incoming revenue divided by average customers.
Capital additions capex Comprises the purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than licence and spectrum payments, during the year.
Churn Total gross customer disconnections in the period divided by the average total customers in the period.
Cloud services This means the customer has little or no equipment at their premises and all the equipment and capability associated with the service is run from the Vodafone network and data centres instead.
This removes the need for customers to make capital investments and instead they have an operating cost model with a recurring monthly fee.
Converged customer A customer who receives both fixed and mobile services also known as unified communications on a single bill or who receives a discount across both bills.
Customer costs Customer costs include acquisition costs, retention costs and expenses related to ongoing commissions.
Depreciation and other The accounting charge that allocates the cost of a tangible or intangible asset to the income statement amortisation over its useful life.
This measure includes the profit or loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment andcomputer software.
Direct costs Direct costs include interconnect costs and other direct costs of providing services.
Enterprise The Groups customer segment for businesses.
Fixed broadband customer A fixed broadband customer is defined as a customer with a connection or access point to a fixed datanetwork.
Fixed service revenue Service revenue relating to provision of fixed line fixed and carrier services.
FTTC Fibre-to-the-Cabinet involves running fibre optic cables from the telephone exchange or distribution point to the street cabinets which then connect to a standard phone line to provide broadband.
FTTH Fibre-to-the-Home provides an end-to-end fibre optic connection the full distance from the exchange to the customers premises.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 219 FRC Financial Reporting Council.
Free cash flow Operating free cash flow after cash flows in relation to taxation, interest, dividends received from associates and investments and dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders in subsidiaries, but before restructuring costs arising from discrete restructuring plans and licence and spectrum payments.
For the year ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015, free cash flow also excluded payments in respect of the Groups historical UK tax settlement.
Gbps Gigabits billions of bits per second.
HSPA An evolution of high speed packet access HSPA.
An evolution of third generation 3G technology that enhances the existing 3G network with higher speeds for the end user.
ICT Information and communications technology.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Incoming revenue Comprises revenue from termination rates for voice and messaging to Vodafone customers.
Internet of Things IoT The network of physical objects embedded with electronics, software, sensors, and network connectivity, including built-in mobile SIM cards, that enables these objects to collect data and exchange communications with one another or a database.
IP Internet Protocol is the format in which data is sent from one computer to another on the internet.
IP-VPN A virtual private network VPN is a network that uses a shared telecommunications infrastructure, such as the internet, to provide remote offices or individual users with secure access to their organisations network.
Mark-to-market Mark-to-market or fair value accounting refers to accounting for the value of an asset or liability based on the current market price of the asset or liability.
Mbps Megabits millions of bits per second.
Mobile broadband Mobile broadband allows internet access through a browser or a native application using any portable or mobile device such as smartphone, tablet or laptop connected to a cellular network.
Mobile customer A mobile customer is defined as a subscriber identity module SIM, or in territories where SIMs do not exist, aunique mobile telephone number, which has access to the network for any purpose, including data only usage.
Mobile service revenue Service revenue relating to the provision of mobile services.
Mobile termination rate MTR A per minute charge paid by a telecommunications network operator when a customer makes a call to another mobile or fixed network operator.
MVNO Mobile virtual network operators, companies that provide mobile phone services under wholesale contracts with a mobile network operator, but do not have their own licence or spectrum or the infrastructure required to operate a network.
Net debt Long-term borrowings, short-term borrowings and mark-to-market adjustments on financing instruments less cash and cash equivalents.
Next generation networks NGN Fibre or cable networks typically providing high-speed broadband over 30Mbps.
Net promoter score NPS Net promoter score is a customer loyalty metric used to monitor customer satisfaction.
Operating expenses Operating expenses comprise primarily sales and distribution costs, network and IT related expenditure and business support costs.
Operating free cash flow Cash generated from operations after cash payments for capital additions excludes capital licence and spectrum payments and cash receipts from the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, but before restructuring costs arising from discrete restructuring plans.
Organic growth An alternative performance measure which presents performance on a comparable basis, both in terms of merger and acquisition activity and movements in foreign exchange rates.
See pages 205 to 213 Alternative performance measures for further details.
Other revenue Other revenue includes revenue from connection fees and equipment sales.
Partner markets Markets in which the Group has entered into a partner agreement with a local mobile operator enabling a range of Vodafones global products and services to be marketed in that operators territory and extending Vodafones reach into such markets.
Penetration Number of SIMs in a country as a percentage of the countrys population.
Penetration can be in excess of 100% due to customers owning more than one SIM.
Petabyte A petabyte is a measure of data usage.
One petabyte is a million gigabytes.
RAN Radio access network is the part of a mobile telecommunications system which provides cellular coverage to mobile phones via a radio interface, managed by thousands of base stations installed on towers and rooftops across the coverage area, and linked to the core nodes through a backhaul infrastructure which can be owned, leased or a mix of both.
Regulation Impact of industry specific law and regulations covering telecommunication services.
The impact of regulation on service revenue comprises the effect of changes in mobile termination rates and roaming regulations.
220 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Definition of terms continued Unaudited information Reported growth Reported growth is based on amounts reported in euros as determined under IFRS.
Restructuring costs Costs incurred by the Group following the implementation of discrete restructuring plans to improve overallefficiency.
RGUs sub Revenue Generating Units unique subscriber ratio RGUs sub describes the average number of fixed services taken by subscribers.
Roaming Allows customers to make calls, send and receive texts and data on other operators mobile networks, usually while travelling abroad.
Service revenue Service revenue comprises all revenue related to the provision of ongoing services including, but not limited to, monthly access charges, airtime usage, roaming, incoming and outgoing network usage by non-Vodafone customers and interconnect charges for incoming calls.
Smartphone penetration The number of smartphone devices divided by the number of registered SIMs excluding data only SIMs and telemetric applications.
SME Small to medium-sized enterprise.
Spectrum The radio frequency bands and channels assigned for telecommunication services.
SRAN Single Radio Access network, which allows 2G, 3G and 4G services to be run from a single piece of equipment.
Supranational An international organisation, or union, whereby member states go beyond national boundaries or interests toshare in the decision making and vote on issues pertaining to the wider grouping.
VGE Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE, which serves the Groups biggest multi-national customers.
VoIP Voice over IP is a set of facilities used to manage the delivery of voice information over the internet in digital form via discrete packets rather than by using the traditional public switched telephone network.
VZW Verizon Wireless, the Groups former associate in the United States.
