190 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information Unaudited information Investor calendar Ex-dividend date for final dividend 8 June 2017 Record date for final dividend 9 June 2017 Trading update 21 July 2017 Annual general meeting 28 July 2017 Final dividend payment 4 August 2017 Half-year financial results 14 November 2017 Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 23 November 2017 Record date for interim dividend 24 November 2017 Interim dividend payment 2 February 2018 Dividends Managing your shares via Investor Centre See pages 42 and 125 for details on dividend amount per share.
Computershare operates a portfolio service for investors in ordinary shares, called Investor Centre.
This provides our shareholders with Payment of dividends by direct credit online access to information about their investments as well as a facility We pay cash dividends directly to shareholders bank or building society to help manage their holdings online, such as being able to: accounts.
This ensures secure delivery and means dividend payments are credited toshareholders bank or building society accounts update dividend mandate bank instructions and review dividend on the same day as payment.
A dividend confirmation covering payment history: both the interim and final dividends paid during the financial year update member details and address changes: and is sent to shareholders at the time of the interim dividend in February.
ADS holders may alternatively have their cash dividends paid by cheque.
register to receive Company communications electronically.
Euro dividends Computershare also offers an internet and telephone share dealing Dividends are now declared in euros and paid in euros and pounds service to existing shareholders.
sterling according to where the shareholder is resident.
Cash dividends to ADS holders are paid by the ADS depositary in US dollars.
This aligns The service can be obtained at investorcentre.
Shareholders with the Groups shareholder returns with the primary currency in which any queries regarding their holding should contact Computershare.
we generate free cash flow.
The foreign exchange rate at which See page 191 for their contact details.
dividends declared in euros are converted into pounds sterling and Shareholders may also find the investors section of our corporate US dollars is calculated based on the average exchange rate of the five website, vodafone.
com investor, useful for general queries and business days during the week prior to the payment of the dividend.
com dividends for further information about dividend payments or, alternatively, please contact our registrar or the ADS Shareholder communications depositary, as applicable.
See page 191 for their contact information.
A growing number of our shareholders have opted to receive their communications from us electronically using email and web-based Dividend reinvestment plan communications.
The use of electronic communications, rather We offer a dividend reinvestment plan which allows holders of ordinary than printed paper documents, means information about the shares who choose to participate to use their cash dividends to acquire Company can be received as soon as it is available and has the additional shares in the Company.
These are purchased on their behalf added benefit of reducing costs and our impact on the environment.
by the plan administrator through a low cost dealing arrangement.
Each timewe issue a shareholder communication, shareholders who For ADS holders, Deutsche Bank, through its transfer agent, American have elected for electronic communication will be sent an email alert Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC AST maintains a DB Global Direct containing a link to the relevant documents.
Investor Services Program which is a direct purchase and sale plan for depositary receipts with a dividend reinvestment facility.
We encourage all our shareholders to sign up for this service by providing us with an email address.
You can register your email Taxation of dividends address via our registrar at investorcentre.
co. uk or contact them via the See pages 194 to 196 for details on dividend taxation.
telephone number provided on page 191.
com investor for further information about this service.
Annual General Meeting Our thirty-third annual general meeting will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Friday 28 July 2017 at 11.00 am.
The annual general meeting will be transmitted via a live webcast which can be viewed on our website at vodafone.
com agm on the day of the meeting.
Arecording will be available to view after that date.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 191 ShareGift Warning to shareholders boiler room scams We support ShareGift, the charity share donation scheme registered Over recent years we have become aware of investors who have charity number 1052686.
Through ShareGift, shareholders who received unsolicited calls or correspondence, in some cases haveonly a very small number of shares, which might be considered purporting to have been issued by us, concerning investment matters.
uneconomic to sell, are able to donate them to charity.
Donated shares These callers typically make claims of highly profitable opportunities are aggregated and sold by ShareGift, the proceeds being passed in UK orUS investments which turn out to be worthless or simply do not on to awide range of UK charities.
These approaches are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals and are commonly known as boiler room scams.
org or call 44 0 20 7930 3737 for further details.
Investors are advised to be wary of any unsolicited advice or offers to buy shares.
If it sounds too good to be true, it often is.
Landmark Asset Search See the FCA website at fca.
uk scamsmart for more detailed We participate in an online service which provides asearch information about this or similar activities.
facility for solicitors and probate professionals to quickly and easily trace UK shareholdings relating to deceased estates.
co. uk or call 44 0 844 844 9967 for further information.
Registrar and transfer office The Registrar ADS transfer agent Computershare Investor Services PLC AST The Pavilions Operations Center Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZZ, England 6201 15th Avenue Telephone: 44 0 370 702 0198 Brooklyn investorcentre.
co. uk contactus NY 11219 United States of America Holders of ordinary shares resident in Ireland Computershare Investor Services Ireland Ltd Telephone: 1 800 233 5601 toll free or, for calls outside the United PO Box 9742 States, 1 201 806 4103 Dublin 18, Ireland Email: db@astfinancial.
co. uk contactus London Stock Exchange NASDAQ Share price history Pounds per ordinary share Dollars per ADS The closing share price at 31 March 2017 was 208.10 pence Month High Low High Low 31March2016: 221.20 pence.
December 2016 2.02 1.91 25.45 24.30 The following tables set out, for the periods indicated, i the reported January 2017 2.15 1.93 26.65 24.58 high and low middle market quotations of ordinary shares on the February 2017 2.03 1.92 25.77 24.42 London Stock Exchange, and ii the reported high and low sales March 2017 2.12 2.02 26.91 25.04 pricesofADSs on NASDAQ.
April 2017 2.07 1.99 26.48 25.59 1 London Stock Exchange NASDAQ May 2017 2.11 1.99 27.58 26.21 Pounds per ordinary share Dollars per ADS Year ended 31 March High Low High Low Note: 1 Covering period up to 15 May 2017.
2013 1.92 1.54 30.07 24.42 2014 2.52 1.80 41.57 27.74 Foreign currency translation 2015 2.40 1.85 38.26 29.67 The following table sets out the euro exchange rates of the other 2016 2.55 2.00 39.21 29.19 principal currencies of the Group, being: Sterling, or pence, 2017 2.40 1.91 34.69 24.30 the currency of the United Kingdom, and US dollars, US$, cents Quarter High Low High Low or, the currency of the United States.
2015 2016 31 March First quarter 2.55 2.20 39.21 32.71 Currency 1 2017 2016 % Change Second quarter 2.46 2.04 38.25 30.90 Average: Third quarter 2.26 2.04 34.42 31.00 Sterling 0.84 0.73 15.1 Fourth quarter 2.25 2.00 32.72 29.19 US dollar 1.10 1.10 0.0 2016 2017 At 31 March: First quarter 2.33 2.09 34.69 28.31 Sterling 0.85 0.79 7.6 Second quarter 2.40 2.19 31.68 28.99 US dollar 1.07 1.13 5.3 Third quarter 2.28 1.91 29.30 24.30 Fourth quarter 2.15 1.92 26.91 24.42 2017 2018 1 First quarter 2.11 1.99 27.58 25.59 192 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information The following table sets out, for the periods and dates indicated, Major shareholders the period end, average, high and low exchange rates for euro expressed Deutsche Bank as custodian of our ADR programme, held approximately in US dollars per 1.00.
20 17.19% of our ordinary shares of 20 21US centseach at 15 May 2017 Year ended 31 March 31 March Average High Low as nominee.
At this date 1,449 holders of record of ordinary shares had 2014 1.38 1.34 1.39 1.28 registered addresses in the United States and in total held approximately 2015 1.08 1.27 1.39 1.05 0.008% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
2016 1.13 1.10 1.16 1.06 At 31 March 2017 the following percentage interests in the ordinary 2017 1.07 1.10 1.15 1.04 share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, DTR 5, have been notified The following table sets out, for the periods indicated, the high and low to the Directors.
exchange rates for euro expressed in US dollars per 1.00.
Year ended 31 March High Low Shareholder Shareholding Black Rock Investment Management Ltd. 3.08% November 2016 1.11 1.06 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. 3.44% December 2016 1.08 1.04 January 2017 1.08 1.04 No changes in the interests disclosed under DTR 5 have been notified February 2017 1.08 1.05 to the Company between 31 March 2017 and 15 May 2017.
March 2017 1.09 1.05 Other than previously disclosed, between 1 April 2014 and 15 May 2017, April 2017 1.09 1.06 no shareholder held more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable On 15 May 2017 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report, to, the ordinary shares of the Company other than Bank of New York the exchange rates between euros and US dollars and between euros Mellon as custodian of our ADR programme.
During this period, and sterling were as follows: 1 US$1.10 and 1 0.85. and as notified, its holding was reduced to below the 3% reporting threshold as of 27 February 2017, the date that Deutsche Bank became Markets custodian of our ADR programme.
Ordinary shares of Vodafone Group Plc are traded on the London The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company held StockExchange and in the form of ADSs on NASDAQ.
by these shareholders are identical in all respects to the rights attaching ADSs, each representing ten ordinary shares, are traded on NASDAQ to all the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Directors are not aware under the symbol VOD.
The ADSs are evidenced by ADRs issued at 15 May 2017 of any other interest of 3% or more in the ordinary share by Deutsche Bank, as depositary, under a deposit agreement, capital of the Company.
The Company is not directly or indirectly owned dated 27 February 2017 between the Company, the depositary or controlled by any foreign government or any other legal entity.
and the holders from time to time of ADRsissued thereunder.
There are no arrangements known to the Company that could result Prior to 27 February 2017 the Companys depositary bank was in a change of control of the Company.
Articles of Association and applicable ADS holders are not members of the Company but may instruct English law Deutsche Bank on the exercise of voting rights relative to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
See Articles The following description summarises certain provisions of Association and applicable English laws and Rights attaching to the of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable English Companys shares Voting rightson page 193. law.
This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act 2006 of England and Wales and the Companys Articles Shareholders as at 31 March 2017 of Association.
See Documents on display on page 194 for information on where copies of the Articles of Association can be obtained.
Number of % of total Number of ordinary shares held accounts issued shares The Company is a public limited company under the laws of England 11,000 310,731 0.24 and Wales.
The Company is registered in England and Wales under the 1,0015,000 42,748 0.35 name Vodafone Group Public Limited Company with the registration 5,00150,000 12,263 0.55 number 1833679.
50,001100,000 456 0.12 All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid.
Accordingly, 100,001500,000 603 0.55 no further contribution of capital may be required by the Company More than 500,000 1,109 98.19 fromthe holders of such shares.
367,910 100.00 English law specifies that any alteration to the Articles of Association must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Ownership location as a percentage of shares held as at 31 March 2017 2016 Articles of Association UK 38.4 45.3 The Companys Articles of Association do notspecifically restrict the Europe excluding UK 14.2 13.2 objects of the Company.
North America 40.7 34.0 Directors Rest of World 6.7 7.5 The Directors are empowered under the Articles of Association to exercise all the powers of the Company subject to any restrictions in the Articles of Association, the Companies Act as defined in the Articles of Association and any special resolution.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 193 Under the Companys Articles of Association a Director cannot Voting rights vote in respect of any proposal in which the Director, or any person At a general meeting of the Company, when voting on substantive connected with the Director, has a material interest other than resolutions i. e. any resolution which is not a procedural resolution each by virtue of the Directors interest in the Companys shares or other shareholder who is entitled to vote and is present in person or by proxy securities.
However, this restriction on voting does not apply in certain has one vote for every share held a poll vote.
Procedural resolutions circumstances set out in the Articles of Association.
such as a resolution to adjourn a general meeting or a resolution on the choice of Chairman of a general meeting shall be decided on a show The Directors are empowered to exercise all the powers of the Company of hands, where each shareholder who is present at the meeting has one to borrow money, subject to the limitation that the aggregate amount vote regardless ofthe number of shares held, unless a poll is demanded.
of all liabilities and obligations of the Group outstanding at any time Shareholders entitled to vote at general meetings may appoint proxies shall not exceed an amount equal to 1.5 times the aggregate of the who are entitled to vote, attend and speak at general meetings.
Groups share capital and reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in the Articles of Association unless sanctioned by an ordinary Two shareholders present in person or by proxy constitute a quorum resolution of the Companys shareholders.
forpurposes of a general meeting of the Company.
The Company can make market purchases of its own shares or agree Under English law shareholders of a public company such as the todo so in the future provided it is duly authorised by its members Company are not permitted to pass resolutions by written consent.
in a general meeting and subject to and in accordance with section Record holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to attend, speak 701 of the Companies Act 2006.
Such authority was given at the 2016 andvote on a poll or a show of hands at any general meeting of the annual general meeting but no purchases were made during this Companys shareholders by the depositarys appointment of them financial year.
ascorporate representatives or proxies with respect to the underlying ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Alternatively, holders At each annual general meeting all Directors who were elected of ADSs are entitled to vote by supplying their voting instructions to the or last re-elected at or before the annual general meeting held in the depositary or its nominee who will vote the ordinary shares underlying third calendar year before the current year shall automatically retire.
their ADSs inaccordance with their instructions.
However, the Board has decided in the interests of good corporate governance that all of the Directors wishing to continue in office Holders of the Companys ADSs are entitled to receive notices shouldoffer themselves for re-election annually.
of shareholders meetings under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to the ADSs.
Directors are not required under the Companys Articles of Associationtohold any shares of the Company as a qualification Employees are able to vote any shares held under the Vodafone Group to act as a Director, although the Executive Directors are required Share Incentive Plan and My ShareBank a vested nominee share to under the Companys remuneration policy.
Further details are account through the respective plans trustees.
Holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are only entitled to vote on any resolution to vary or abrogate the rights attached Rights attaching to the Companys shares to the fixed rate shares.
Holders have one vote for every fully paid 7% At 31 March 2017 the issued share capital of the Company was cumulative fixed rate share.
comprised of 50,000 7% cumulative fixed rate shares of 1.00 each Liquidation rights and26,622,078,509 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares 20 In the event of the liquidation of the Company, after payment of 20 21 US cents each.
As at 31 March 2017, 2,192,064,339 ordinary of all liabilities and deductions in accordance with English law, shares were held in Treasury.
the holders of the Companys 7% cumulative fixed rate shares would Dividend rights be entitled to a sum equal to the capital paid up on such shares, Holders of 7% cumulative fixed rate shares are entitled to be paid together with certain dividend payments, in priority to holders of the inrespect of each financial year, or other accounting period of the Companys ordinary shares.
The holders of the fixed rate shares do not Company, a fixed cumulative preferential dividend of 7% per annum have any other right to share in the Companys surplus assets.
on the nominal value of the fixed rate shares.
A fixed cumulative preferential dividend may only be paid out of available distributable Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares profits which the Directors have resolved should be distributed.
Under section 549 of the Companies Act 2006 Directors are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot the Companys ordinary shares The fixed rate shares do not have any other right to share in the or securities convertible into the Companys ordinary shares without Companys profits.
the authority of the shareholders in a general meeting.
In addition, Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 imposes further restrictions declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the on the issue of equity securities as defined in the Companies Act 2006 amount recommended by the Directors.
The Board of Directors may which include the Companys ordinary shares and securities convertible also pay interim dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out into ordinary shares which are, or are to be, paid up wholly in cash of profits available for distribution.
Dividends on ordinary shares can and notfirst offered to existing shareholders.
The Companys Articles be paid to shareholders in whatever currency the Directors decide, ofAssociation allow shareholders to authorise Directors for a period using anappropriate exchange rate for any currency conversions specified in the relevant resolution to allot i relevant securities whicharerequired.
generally up to an amount fixed by the shareholders: and ii equity securities for cash other than in connection with a pre-emptive If a dividend has not been claimed for one year after the date of the offer up to an amount specified by the shareholders and free of the resolution passed at a general meeting declaring that dividend or the pre-emption restriction in section 561.
At the 2016 annual general resolution of the Directors providing for payment of that dividend, meeting the amount of relevant securities fixed by shareholders under the Directors may invest the dividend or use it in some other way for i above and the amount of equity securities specified by shareholders the benefit of the Company until the dividend is claimed.
If the dividend under ii above were both inline with corporate governance guidelines.
remains unclaimed for 12 years after the relevant resolution either Further details of such proposals are provided in the 2017 notice declaring that dividend or providing for payment of that dividend, of annual general meeting.
it willbe forfeited and belong to the Company.
194 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Documents on display There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby The Company is subject to the information requirements of the persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the Exchange Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
In accordance Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership with these requirements the Company files its Annual Report percentage although such requirements exist under rules derived from on Form20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
These the UK Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
documents may be inspected at the SECs public reference rooms located at 100F Street, NE Washington, DC 20549.
Information on the General meetings and notices operation of the public reference room can be obtained in the United Subject to the Articles of Association, annual general meetings are held States by calling the SEC on 1-800-SEC-0330.
In addition, some at such times and place as determined by the Directors of the Company.
of the Companys SEC filings, including all those filed on or after The Directors may also, when they think fit, convene other general 4 November 2002, are available onthe SECs website at sec.
General meetings may also be convened Shareholders can also obtain copies ofthe Companys Articles on requisition as provided by the Companies Act 2006. of Association from our website at vodafone.
com governance An annual general meeting needs to be called on not less than 21 days or fromthe Companys registeredoffice.
Subject to obtaining shareholder approval on an annual basis, the Company may call other general meetings on 14 days notice.
Material contracts The Directors may determine that persons entitled to receive notices At the date of this Annual Report the Group is not party to any contracts ofmeetings are those persons entered on the register at the close that are considered material to the Groups results or operations of business on a day determined by the Directors but not later than except for: 21 days before the date the relevant notice is sent.
The notice may its US$4.1 billion and 4.0 billion revolving credit facilities which also specify the record date, the time of which shall be determined are discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Companies consolidated financial statements: Act2006.
its subscription agreements for the 2.9 billion of subordinated Under section 336 of the Companies Act 2006 the annual general mandatory convertible bonds placed on 25 February 2016 meeting of shareholders must be held each calendar year and within as discussed in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources to the sixmonths of the Companys year end.
consolidated financial statements: Variation of rights the Contribution and Transfer Agreement in respect of the Dutch joint If at any time the Companys share capital is divided into different classes venture with Liberty Global as detailed in note 29 Commitments of shares, the rights attached to any class may be varied, subject to the to the consolidated financial statements: and provisions of the Companies Act 2006, either with the consent in writing of the holders of three quarters in nominal value of the shares of that the Implementation Agreement dated 20 March 2017 between class or at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
Vodafone India Limited and Idea Cellular Limited and such other parties as listed in the agreement.
At every such separate meeting all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings at a general meeting apply, except that i the quorum is to be the number of persons which Exchange controls must be at least two who hold or represent by proxy not less than There are no UK Government laws, decrees or regulations that restrict one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or, if such or affect the export or import of capital, including but not limited to, quorum is not present on an adjourned meeting, one person who holds foreign exchange controls on remittance of dividends on the ordinary shares of the class regardless of the number of shares he holds: ii any shares or on the conduct of the Groups operations.
person present in person or by proxy may demand a poll: and iii each shareholder will have one vote per share held in that particular class Taxation in the event a poll is taken.
Class rights are deemed not to have been varied by the creation or issue of new shares ranking equally with As this is a complex area investors should consult their own tax or subsequent to that classof shares in sharing in profits or assets advisor regarding the US federal, state and local, the UK and other of the Company or by aredemption or repurchase of the shares tax consequences of owning and disposing of shares and American by the Company.
Depositary Shares ADSs in their particular circumstances.
This section describes, primarily for a US holder as defined below, Limitations on transfer, voting and shareholding in general terms, the principal US federal income tax and UK tax As far as the Company is aware there are no limitations imposed on the consequences of owning or disposing of shares or ADSs in the Company transfer, holding or voting of the Companys ordinary shares other than held as capital assets for US and UK tax purposes.
This section does those limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholders, not, however, cover the tax consequences for members of certain those that apply by law e. g. due to insider dealing rules or those that classes of holders subject to special rules including, for example, apply as a result of failure to comply with a notice under section 793 US expatriates and former long-term residents of the United States: of the Companies Act 2006.
No shareholder has any securities carrying officers and employees of the Company: holders that, directly, indirectly special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company or by attribution, hold 5% or more of the Companys voting stock: is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that financial institutions: insurance companies: individual retirement mayresult in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
accounts and other tax-deferred accounts: tax-exempt organisations: dealers in securities or currencies: investors that will hold shares or ADSs as part of straddles, hedging transactions or conversion transactions for US federal income tax purposes: investors holding shares or ADSs in connection with a trade or business conducted outside of the US: or investors whose functional currency is not the US dollar.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 195 A US holder is a beneficial owner of shares or ADSs that is for US federal Taxation of dividends income tax purposes: UK taxation Under current UK law, no amount will be required to be withheld an individual citizen or resident of the United States: on account of UK tax from the dividends that we pay.
Shareholders who a US domestic corporation: are within the charge to UK corporation tax will be subject to corporation tax on the dividends we pay unless the dividends fall within an exempt an estate, the income of which is subject to US federal income tax class and certain other conditions are met.
It is expected that the regardless of its source: or dividends we pay would generally be exempt.
a trust, if a US court can exercise primary supervision over the Individual shareholders in the Company who are residents in the UK will trusts administration and one or more US persons are authorised be subject to the income tax on the dividends we pay.
Dividends will to control all substantial decisions of the trust, or the trust has validly be taxable in the UK at the dividend rates applicable where the income elected to be treated as a domestic trust for US federal income received is above the tax-free dividend allowance currently 5,000 per tax purposes.
If an entity or arrangement treated as a partnership for US federal US federal income taxation income tax purposes holds the shares or ADSs, the US federal income Subject to the passive foreign investment company PFIC rules tax treatment of a partner will generally depend on the status of the described below, a US holder is subject to US federal income taxation partner and the tax treatment of the partnership.
Holders that are on the gross amount of any dividend we pay out of our current entities or arrangements treated as partnerships for US federal income or accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal tax purposes should consult their tax advisors concerning the US federal income tax purposes.
However, the Company does not maintain income tax consequences to them and their partners of the ownership calculations of its earnings and profits in accordance with US federal and disposition of shares or ADSs by the partnership.
US holders should therefore assume that any distribution by the Company with respect to shares will This section is based on the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, be reported as ordinary dividend income.
Dividends paid to a nonas amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations corporate US holder will be taxable to the holder at the reduced rate thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and on the tax normally applicable to long-term capital gains provided that certain laws of the UK, the Double Taxation Convention between the United requirements are met.
States and the UK the treaty and current HM Revenue and Customs published practice, all as currently in effect.
These laws are subject Dividends must be included in income when the US holder, to change, possibly on a retroactive basis.
in the case of shares, or the depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the dividend and will not be eligible for the This section is further based in part upon the representations of the dividends-received deduction generally allowed to US corporations depositary and assumes that each obligation in the deposit agreement in respect of dividends received from other US corporations.
and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its terms.
The amount of the dividend distribution to be included in income will be the US dollar value of the pound sterling payments made For the purposes of the treaty and the USUK double taxation determined at the spot pound sterling US dollar rate on the date the convention relating to estate and gift taxes the Estate Tax Convention, dividends are received by the US holder, in the case of shares, or the and for US federal income tax and UK tax purposes, this section depositary, in the case of ADSs, regardless of whether the payment is based on the assumption that a holder of American Depositary is in fact converted into US dollars at that time.
If dividends received Receipts ADRs evidencing ADSs will generally be treated as the in pounds sterling are converted into US dollars on the day they are owner of the shares in the Company represented by those ADRs.
received, the US holder generally will not be required to recognise any Investors should note that a ruling by the first-tier tax tribunal in the foreign currency gain or loss in respect of thedividend income.
UK has cast doubt on this view, but HMRC have stated that they will continue to apply their long-standing practice of regarding the holder Where UK tax is payable on any dividends received, a foreign tax credit of such ADRs as holding the beneficial interest in the underlying shares.
may be claimable under the treaty.
Similarly, the US Treasury has expressed concern that US holders of depositary receipts such as holders of ADRs representing our ADSs may be claiming foreign tax credits in situations where an intermediary in the chain of ownership between such holders and the issuer of the security underlying the depositary receipts, or a party to whom depositary receipts or deposited shares are delivered by the depositary prior to the receipt by the depositary of the corresponding securities, has taken actions inconsistent with the ownership of the underlying security by the person claiming the credit, such as a disposition of such security.
Such actions may also be inconsistent with the claiming of the reduced tax rates that may be applicable to certain dividends received by certain non-corporate holders, as described below.
Accordingly, i the creditability of any UK taxes and ii the availability of the reduced tax rates for any dividends received by certain non-corporate US Holders, each as described below, could be affected by actions taken by such parties or intermediaries.
Generally exchanges of shares for ADRs and ADRs for shares will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK tax other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax see the section on these taxes on page 196.
196 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Shareholder information continued Unaudited information Taxation of capital gains Following rulings of the European Court of Justice and the first-tier tax tribunal in the UK, HMRC have confirmed that the 1.5% SDRT charge UK taxation will not be levied on an issue of shares to a depositary receipts system A US holder that is not resident in the UK will generally not be liable for on the basis that such a charge is contrary to EU law.
UK tax in respect of any capital gain realised on a disposal of our shares or ADSs.
No stamp duty should in practice be required to be paid on any transfer of our ADSs provided that the ADSs and any separate instrument However, a US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of transfer are executed and retained at all times outside the UK.
of a gain on the disposal of our shares or ADSs if the US holder: A transfer of our shares in registered form will attract ad valorem stamp is a citizen of the United States and is resident in the UK: duty generally at the rate of 0.5% of the purchase price of the shares.
There is no charge to ad valorem stamp duty on gifts.
is an individual who realises such a gain during a period of temporary non-residence broadly, where the individual becomes resident SDRT is generally payable on an unconditional agreement to transfer in the UK, having ceased to be so resident for a period of five years our shares in registered form at 0.5% of the amount or value of the or less, and was resident in the UK for at least four out of the seven tax consideration for the transfer, but if, within six years of the date of the years immediately preceding the year of departure from the UK : agreement, an instrument transferring the shares is executed, any SDRT which has been paid would be repayable or, if the SDRT has not is a US domestic corporation resident in the UK by reason of being been paid, the liability to pay the tax but not necessarily interest and centrally managed and controlled in the UK: or penalties would be cancelled.
However, an agreement to transfer our is a citizen or a resident of the United States, or a US domestic ADSs will not give rise to SDRT.
corporation, that has used, held or acquired the shares or ADSs PFIC rules in connection with a branch, agency or permanent establishment We do not believe that our shares or ADSs will be treated as stock in the UK through which it carries on a trade, profession or vocation of a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year in the UK.
This conclusion is a factual determination that is made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated In such circumstances, relief from double taxation may be available as a PFIC, US holders of shares would be required i to pay a special under the treaty.
Holders who may fall within one of the above US addition to tax on certain distributions and ii any gain realised categories should consult their professional advisers.
on the sale or other disposition of the shares or ADSs would in general US federal income taxation not be treated as a capital gain unless a US holder elects to be taxed Subject to the PFIC rules described below, a US holder that sells annually on a mark-to-market basis with respect to the shares or ADSs.
or otherwise disposes of our shares or ADSs generally will recognise Otherwise a US holder would be treated as if he or she has realised a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes equal to the such gain and certain excess distributions rateably over the holding difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised and period for the shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the highest tax the holders adjusted tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the shares rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was allocated.
This capital gain or loss will be a long-term capital gain or loss An interest charge in respect of the tax attributable to each such if the US holders holding period in the shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
preceding year beginning with the first such year in which our shares The gain or loss will generally be income or loss from sources within the or ADSs were treated as stock in a PFIC would also apply.
In addition, US for foreign tax credit limitation purposes.
The deductibility of losses dividends received from us would not be eligible for the reduced rate is subject to limitations.
of tax described above under Taxation of Dividends US federal income taxation.
Additional tax considerations UK inheritance tax Back-up withholding and information reporting An individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes Payments of dividends and other proceeds to a US holder with respect of the Estate Tax Convention and is not a UK national will not to shares or ADSs, by a US paying agent or other US intermediary will be subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of our shares or ADSs on the be reported to the Internal Revenue Service IRS and to the US holder individuals death or on a transfer of the shares or ADSs during the as may be required under applicable regulations.
Back-up withholding individuals lifetime, provided that any applicable US federal gift or estate may apply to these payments if the US holder fails to provide tax is paid, unless the shares or ADSs are part of the business property an accurate taxpayer identification number or certification of exempt of a UK permanent establishment or pertain to a UK fixed base used for status or fails to comply with applicable certification requirements.
the performance of independent personal services.
Where the shares Certain US holders are not subject to back-up withholding.
US holders or ADSs have been placed in trust by a settlor they may be subject should consult their tax advisors about these rules and any other to UK inheritance tax unless, when the trust was created, the settlor was reporting obligations that may apply to the ownership or disposition domiciled in the United States and was not a UK national.
Where the of shares or ADSs, including requirements related to the holding shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal of certain foreign financial assets.
gift or estate tax, the estate tax convention generally provides a credit against US federal tax liabilities for UK inheritance tax paid.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax Stamp duty will, subject to certain exceptions, be payable on any instrument transferring our shares to the custodian of the depositary at the rate of 1.5% on the amount or value of the consideration if on sale or on the value of such shares if not on sale.
Stamp duty reserve tax SDRT, at the rate of 1.5% of the amount or value of the consideration or the value of the shares, could also be payable in these circumstances but no SDRT will be payable if stamp duty equal to such SDRT liability is paid.
