198 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Regulation Unaudited information Our operating companies are generally subject to regulation governing Europe region the operation of their business activities.
Such regulation typically Germany takes the form of industry specific law and regulation covering In September 2016 BNetzAs vectoring proposals entered into telecommunications services and general competition antitrust force and after taking the Commissions comments into account, law applicable to all activities.
the layer 2 bitstream product entered into force in December 2016.
In addition to the layer 2 bitstream product, BNetzA has proposed The following section describes the regulatory frameworks and the to mandate a virtual unbundled local access VULA product key regulatory developments at national and supranational level and at street cabinets that will be under the obligations of a reference in selected countries in which we have significant interests during the offer.
Deutsch Telekoms vectoring deployment is expected year ended 31 March 2017.
Many of the regulatory developments to commence in September 2017, once the existing unbundled reported in the following section involve ongoing proceedings local loop ULL reference offer updates have been finalised.
or consideration of potential proceedings that have not reached Vodafone Germanys very-high-rate digital subscriber line VDSL a conclusion.
Accordingly, we are unable to attach a specific level customers are due to be migrated on to the substitute products of financial risk to our performance from such matters.
European Union EU Italy In January 2017 the Telecoms Single Market package was finalised Vodafone Italy has no new material items to report in the year ending when agreement was reached on the revised maximum wholesale 31 March 2017. rates for regulated roaming in the EU.
The new rates will see the price For information on litigation in Italy, see note 30 Contingent liabilities of wholesale roaming fall on 15 June 2017 from 5 to 3.2 eurocents and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
per minute for voice, from 2 to 1 eurocents for SMS and from 5 to 0.77 eurocents per megabyte for data.
In addition a glide path has been United Kingdom established reducing roaming data services to 0.25 eurocents per In July 2016 Hutchison 3G submitted an appeal to the EUs General megabyte by 1 Jan 2022.
In December 2016 the European Commission Court against the Commissions competition authority DGCOMP the Commission published the implementing act in relation to the decision in May 2016 to prohibit the proposed Hutchison 3G acquisition Fair Use Policy and the Sustainability Mechanism.
As a result, from of Telefnica UK O2.
15 June 2017 all operators will be required to implement Roam Like In March 2017 BT agreed to Ofcoms proposal for the legal separation at Home.
Under this approach, all roaming customers will be able to use of Openreach.
their home tariff whilst roaming.
Operators will be able to apply fair use limits in line with the rules set out by the Commission.
In exceptional In May 2017 the Court of Appeal upheld the Competition Tribunals circumstances operators will be able to apply for an exemption from decisions against BTs appeals on three matters relating to the charges implementing Roam Like at Home if it is demonstrably unsustainable for Ethernet services between 2004 and 2011.
The decisions are subject from a financial perspective.
In September 2016 the Commission published a set of initiatives and Spain legislative proposals on connectivity.
These include the European The fines applied to Telefnica, Orange and Vodafone Spain Electronic Communications Code Communications Code in December 2012 for abuse of dominant position by imposing and strategic communications documents, which sets EU-wide excessive pricing of wholesale SMS MMS services on mobile virtual common rules and objectives for the regulation of providers of networks network operators MVNO, remain suspended until the judicial review and communications services, common broadband targets for 2025, is concluded.
The National Audience decision is awaited.
a 5G action plan that foresees a common EU calendar for identification In June 2016 following on from the National Markets and Competition and allocation of spectrum and a coordinated 5G commercial launch Commissions CNMC draft decision on the regulatory ex ante price in 2020 and a support scheme for public authorities who want squeeze test run on Telefnicas retail offers, it is proposed that there will to offer free Wi-Fi access to their citizens.
The Communications Code be a maximum permissible discount for promotions on fixed broadband covers the following five areas: access regulation, spectrum, rules and TV content bundles incorporating national football content, in order for communications services, universal service, and the institutional to allow replicability for competitors.
There is a clear focus on incentivising the investment required to meet the proposed broadband targets and In September 2016 CNMC approved Masmovils proposed acquisition ensure sustainable competition, the further harmonisation of spectrum of Yoigo.
regulation and the creation of a fair and levelplaying field for In January 2017 following a public consultation and subsequent competing services.
notification to the Commission, CNMCs decision requiring Telefnica The Commission has also published a number of proposals and reports to offer VULA products where there is insufficient network-based on the online sale of goods and audiovisual services which are likely competition entered into force.
to impact e-commerce and the distribution of content across the In January 2017 following a public consultation and subsequent European Single Market in a variety of areas.
These include proposals notification to the Commission, CNMCs decision to maintain the access on copyright, tangible goods and a new portability regulation, which component cost but reduce the traffic component cost of the CNMCwill allow consumers access to online TV and Video on Demand VoD approved wholesale broadband service NEBA prices, for both NEBA subscriptions while travelling across Europe.
Copper and fibre-to-the-home FTTH by 40%, entered into force.
In September 2016 the Commission issued new proposals on the In April 2017 following notification to the Commission on Market 15 Satellite and Cable Directive, together with a Preliminary Report on the deregulation, the CNMC adopted the Resolution eliminating the ex-ante E-commerce Sector Inquiry which is also likely to lead to change obligations imposed to Telefnica and Vodafone in providing wholesale in a variety of areas in and beyond competition that impact e-commerce tariffs to MVNOs.
across the European Single Market.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 199 Netherlands Romania In September 2016 the European Court of Justice ECJ issued its Vodafone Romania has no new material items to report in the year ruling on the legal status of the recommendation to use pure bottom ending 31 March 2017. up long run incremental cost BULRIC.
The ECJ confirmed that Greece a national court is allowed to deviate from the European MTR FTR In August 2016 the Ministry of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks recommendation prescribing pure BULRIC as a cost methodology.
MITN announced its decision in relation to Vodafone Greeces expired Based on the ECJ ruling, the Court of Appeal is expected to issue its final spectrum licence.
The 2x15MHz at 1800Mhz licence was extended ruling on the national regulatory and competition authoritys ACM by 18 months to February 2018 at a cost of 5.8 million.
proposed 2013-2016 MTR-FTR rates by September 2017.
ACMs final decision on the proposed MTR-FTR rates for the period 2017-2020 In December 2016 following notification to the Commission, is expected to be published in June 2017, with rates due to enter into the national regulatory authority EETT announced that the detailed force on 1 July 2017. specification requirements for the regulation of vectoring and other next generation access NGA technologies will be determined In April 2017 the Court of Rotterdam ruled that the European by a public consultation that commenced in March 2017 and rules on net neutrality prevail over the amendment to the is expected to be concluded in May 2017.
Areas will be allocated Telecommunications Act that was passed by the Senate in 2016 that by auction, on a 28-month exclusive basis, to deploy VDSL vectoring imposed an absolute ban on zero-rating.
The ruling confirms that the or any alternative 100MBps or above, access network.
The successful European rules allow operators to offer zero rated services.
ACM have bidder will sell VULA services to other operators in that auction a right to appeal the decision in the Court of Appeals in The Hague.
There is an asymmetrical coverage obligation of 80% applied In December 2016 following the Dutch Supreme Courts February to Hellenic Telecommunications Organization OTE in each local 2016 ruling that bundled all-in mobile subscription agreements exchange, whereas all others operators have a 50% minimum coverage i. e. device along with mobile services are considered consumer requirement.
At the end of the exclusive period, any other operator creditagreements, Vodafone Netherlands was granted a consumer can request access to any street cabinets that have not been VDSL credit licence by the Dutch Financial supervisory body AFM vectoring enabled.
Czech Republic In December 2016 the Commission and ACM cleared Vodafone In June 2016 the auction of the 1800MHz and 2.6GHz spectrum Netherlands and Liberty Globals proposed joint venture, following the previously unsold in 2013 was concluded.
Vodafone Czech Republic divestment of Vodafones fixed consumer business in the Netherlands, acquired an additional spectrum licence of 2x5MHz at 1800MHz, Vodafone Thuis.
ACM has indicated that as a result of the joint venture at a cost of 16.4 million, expiring in June 2029.
The national regulatory it will start a new analysis of the ULL market in 2017.
This process authority CTU has deferred the proposed auction for the 3.7GHz is expected to take one to two years.
Ireland In October 2016 DG COMP opened an investigation into a network In November 2016 the national regulatory authority ComReg sharing agreement between O2 CZ CETIN and T-Mobile commenced its review of the wholesale access markets 3a and3b.
The Commission will examine whether the cooperation ComReg has proposed a move to cost oriented price control restricts competition and thereby harms innovation in breach on Wholesale Local Access and WLA and Wholesale Central Access of EU antitrust rules.
WCA markets with the exception of FTTH wholesale products.
In May 2017 CTU confirmed their intention to extend Vodafone The initial consultation closed in January 2017 and responses Czech Republics existing 900MHz and 1800MHZ spectrum licences to thesubsequent pricing consultation are required by 2 June 2017. to June 2029.
Portugal Hungary In May 2016 Vodafone Portugal continued its challenge to payment In June 2016 Vodafone Hungary acquired a spectrum licence notices totalling 9.8 million issued by the national regulatory authority of 2x30MHz at 3.5GHz, at a cost of 2.1 million, expiring in June 2034.
ANACOM regarding the extraordinary compensation of Universal Service Net Costs for 20122013.
In August 2016 the national regulatory authority NMHH commenced an investigation into a proposed agreement between Magyar Telekom In September 2016 ANACOM approved the final decision and Telenor to share spectrum in the 900MHz band.
This deal can on market 4 that identified the wholesale markets where Portugal be regarded as a second step in network collaboration after their Telecoms Servios fide Comunicaes e Multimdia MEO 800MHz network and spectrum sharing deal, that is still subject has significant market power and requires ex-ante regulation to an ongoing competition law investigation.
in accordance with the principles of competition law.
Wholesale markets for high-quality access in competitive areas will no longer require Albania ex-ante regulation and the existing obligations will be withdrawn after In June 2016 Vodafone Albania renewed its 2x8MHz at 900MHz and a transition period of 12 months.
2x9MHz at 1800MHz spectrum licences at a cost of 10.9 million, expiring in June 2031.
In March 2017 ANACOM rejected the Commissions recommendation to open up MEOs fibre network to competitors by providing regulated Malta access in non-competitive areas.
The Commission is yet to comment, Vodafone Malta has no new material items to report in the year ending however it had previously indicated that it could resort to legal measures 31 March 2017. if the recommendation was not adopted.
200 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Regulation continued Unaudited information Vodacom: South Africa Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific region In April 2017 the national competition authority CompCom India announced that it would not refer Cell Cs allegation against Vodacom Vodafone Indias challenge in the Telecom Tribunal TDSAT against the and MTN of market dominance abuse.
However, CompCom will engage financial demands by the Department of Telecommunications DoT the national regulatory authority ICASA to explore the need for any for approving the transfer of Vodafone India telecom licences that were regulatory interventions to ensure the market is competitive.
held under seven subsidiary companies to create two telecom licensed In October 2016 the Ministry of Telecommunications and Postal companies Vodafone India Limited and its subsidiary Vodafone Services published the cabinet-approved National Integrated ICT Policy Mobile Services Limited, is pending.
Vodafone India has deposited White Paper White Paper.
The White Paper sets out a framework INR24.5 billion with DoT based on orders from the Supreme Court on how the government wants to provide access to modern and TDSAT, this is without prejudice to its rights and contentions in the communications infrastructure and services to facilitate the entry matter.
The matter is listed for hearing in the TDSAT in due course.
of new players and the meaningful participation of all citizens, including In August 2016 in response to the Indian Supreme Court decision on those in rural areas.
Its adoption will require various amendments call drops, TRAI launched a consultation on tightening benchmarks for to existing laws and regulations flowing from the Electronic network quality of service parameters, the outcome of which is awaited.
Engagements between the various stakeholders and Government to explore the possibility of finding an amicable way In August 2016 TRAI initiated a review of termination charges and to implement the White Paper are ongoing.
initiated a consultation on Internet Telephony and App to Public Switched Telephone Network and Public Land Mobile Network In November 2016 the Final Amended ICT Sector Black Economic PSTN PLMN calling and a review of the Interconnection framework, Empowerment Codes were gazetted.
The Codes contain variations the outcome of which are awaited.
The current MTR regime introduced to the draft ICT Sector Code, some of which are in conflict with that in February 2015 was challenged by Vodafone India in the Delhi High of the Revised Department of Trade and Industry Codes and will be used Court and the next hearing is currently scheduled in September 2017. in May 2017 to rate Vodacoms and the other operators performance for the 2016 17 financial year.
Due to the nature of the new Codes, In August 2016 Vodafone India received 128 notices for financial the industry is engaging the BEE ICT Sector Council to resolve some demands licence and spectrum fee from the DoT of INR78.90 billion of the concerns.
and INR0.94 billion for six notices concerning access and National and International Long Distance services based on the audit of Vodafone In February 2017 ICASA formally deferred the timeframe for the Indias telecom operations by the DoT appointed auditor and by the Invitation to Apply ITA spectrum licensing process in the 700MHz, Comptroller & Auditor General of India CAG for the years 2006 7 800MHz and 2.6GHz bands whilst the judicial review process in the to 2010 11.
Vodafone India has submitted its response to the HighCourt is ongoing.
Vodacom: Democratic Republic of Congo In October 2016 Vodafone India acquired a total of 2x82.6MHZ and In August 2016 the Minister of Communications and Minister of Finance 1x200MHz of spectrum across the 1800MHz, 2.1GHz and 2.5GHZ bands issued a ministerial decree setting the new tax on mobile payments at a cost of INR200 billion, expiring in October 2036, enabling its 4G at 3% of annual service revenue.
services to be expanded to a total of 17 circles.
The Ministry of Finance DGRAD-Tax Administration has proposed In October 2016 TRAI recommended to the DoT that a fine a revision to the spectrum fees model which will result in a 69% increase of INR10.5 billion should be levied against Vodafone India for failing in annual fees.
Vodacom Congo and other industry participants have to provide adequate points of interconnection to Reliance Jio RJIL.
engaged the DGRAD and Minister of Communications to request the Similar fines were also recommended against Bharti Airtel and Idea nullification of this change on the grounds that such a tax will negatively Cellular.
Vodafone India has challenged TRAIs recommendation in the impact communication costs.
Delhi High Court and the next hearing is scheduled on 24 October As of March 2017 Vodacom Congo is implementing a compliance plan 2017.
Vodafone India has filed a petition in the Delhi High Court on the and continues to participate in industry association engagement with basis that RJILs zero free mobile tariff offers are not compliant with authorities to secure electronic SIM registration.
TRAIs tariff requirements for interconnect usage charges and that the promotion free benefits is continuing beyond the 90 days permitted Vodacom: Tanzania by TRAI.
The matter was heard at the Delhi High Court in April 2017 In July 2016 the national regulatory authority TCRA published where it was adjourned.
Similar petitions have been filed by Bharti an open invitation to apply for 3.5GHz spectrum.
Vodacom Tanzania has Airteland Idea Cellular in the TDSAT.
submitted its application and the evaluation of all applications by TCRA is still pending.
In March 2017 Vodafone India and Idea announced their proposal to merge.
The transaction is expected to close during 2018, subject In July 2016 the national competition authority FCC approved to customary approvals.
Vodacom Tanzanias acquisition of Shared Networks Tanzania which holds 2x5MHz of 900MHz spectrum licences which will be used In May 2017 Vodafone India filed a challenge in TDSAT against to support the provision of rural services.
DoTs microwave spectrum interim guidelines issued in October 2015, and their letter of January 2017, that conflict with the confirmations In March 2017 the Initial Public Offering for Vodafone Tanzania Public given to Vodafone India at the time of the 2014 and 2015 spectrum Company Limited was launched under the requirements of the Finance auctions that the microwave resources of expiring licences will Act 2016, with the offer open until 11 May 2017. be transferred to the Universal Licence.
In March 2017 the Ministry of Communications published its draft For information on litigation in India, see note 30 Contingent liabilities amendments to the Electronic and Postal Communications Act 2010 and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
with comments submitted by 14 April 2017.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 201 In April 2017 Vodafone Tanzania received a non-compliance order from Ghana TCRA in relation to SIM registration tests conducted in December 2016.
Vodafone Ghana has no new material items to report for the year ending Vodafone Tanzania will continue to work with TCRA to execute the SIM 31 March 2017. registration compliance actions.
New Zealand Vodacom: Mozambique In January 2017 the New Zealand Government awarded contracts In July 2016 a new Communications Act was approved by Parliament, to extend the existing Ultra-Fast Broadband fibre to the premises that required the national regulatory authority INCM to issue FTTP initiative from 75% to 85% of premises passed at a projected new regulations under the Act by February 2017.
To date only draft cost of NZ$210 million.
The Government has also announced a further regulations for Licensing Regulations and Infrastructure Sharing NZ$150 million of funding to improve broadband coverage in rural areas Regulations have been issued, to which Vodacom Mozambique has and address mobile blackspots, with competitive tenders expected submitted its comments.
In November 2016 Vodacom Mozambique complied with an order In February 2017 the Commerce Commission declined to clear the fromINCM and blocked all existing unregistered users.
proposed merger between Vodafone New Zealand and Sky New Zealand under the New Zealand Commerce Act.
Vodacom: Lesotho In April 2016 the national regulatory authority LCA finalised the Safaricom: Kenya approved renewal of Vodacom Lesothos service licence at a cost In May 2016 the national regulatory authority CA appointed of ZAR5 million, expiring in May 2036.
Analysis Mason to conduct a study on competition within the Telecommunication subsector to identify any dominant operators and International roaming in Africa recommend regulatory remedies.
The interim report was released In September 2016 an impact assessment carried out by TERA in April 2017 and Safaricoms comments have been submitted.
Consultants on East Africa Community EAC Roaming was submitted to the Tanzanian Ministry of Communications as part of the In June 2016 following the CAs stakeholders consultation on the ongoing public consultation to implement Phase 1 price caps for allocation of LTE spectrum in the 800MHz band to all mobile operators, EAC countries.
Vodacom has engaged with the consultation process Safaricom secured a full spectrum licence for 2x10MHz at 800MHz and presented its views at the February 2017 East African Legislative at a cost of US$25 million.
As of March 2017 Safaricom continues to work with the authorities As of March 2017 no national regulatory authority in the Vodacom to ensure an effective transition to the national regulatory Group markets had fully complied with the Communications authoritys CA new registration process.
Regulators Association of Southern Africa CRASA guidance on the Qatar Southern African Development Community SADC roaming glide As of May 2017 Vodafone Qatars challenges to the decisions by the paths, that had been issued in September 2015.
In the meantime, ministry and national regulatory authority relating to the application Vodacom Group has developed its new Africa Roaming Product and enforcement of the dominance framework are ongoing in the acrossSADC which is being rolled out in 2017. administrative courts.
Turkey As of March 2017 the national regulatory authoritys ICTA proposed action to broaden the scope of the 3G coverage to include new metropolitan areas is still suspended by the Council of State motion, as Vodafone Turkeys appeal to the administrative court is still pending.
Australia In May 2017 Vodafone Australia acquired a spectrum licence of 2x5MHz at 700MHz band spectrum, at a cost of AU$285 million, expiring in December 2029.
Egypt The Administrative Court ruling in favour of Vodafone Egypt in the case filed against Telecom Egypt and the national regulatory authority NTRA, regarding the NTRAs authority to set MTRs between operators, has been implemented with Orange Egypt formerly Mobinil and Telecom Egypt, however, the arbitration case with Etisalat Misr is still pending.
In October 2016 Vodafone Egypt acquired a spectrum licence for 2x5MHz at 2.1GHz and extended the existing 2G 3G licences a cost of US$335 million all expiring in October 2031, enabling the launch of 4G services.
For information on litigation in Egypt, see note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
2 Blocks within the same spectrum band but with different licence expiry dates are separately identified.
3 UK 900MHz, 1800MHz and 2.1GHz indefinite licence with a five-year notice of revocation.
4 Hungary 900MHz and 1800MHz conditional options to extend these licences to 2034.
5 India comprises 22 separate service area licences with a variety of expiry dates.
6 Vodacoms South African spectrum licences are renewed annually.
As part of the migration to a new licensing regime the national regulator has issued Vodacom a service licence and a network licence which will permit Vodacom to offer mobile and fixed services.
The service and network licences have a 20 year duration and will expire in 2028.
7 Vodacoms Lesotho spectrum licences are renewed annually, N. B.
8 Australia table refers to Sydney Melbourne only.
In total VHA has: 850MHz band 2x10MHz in Sydney Melbourne Brisbane Adelaide Perth and 2x5MHz across the rest of Australia.
1800MHz band 2x30MHz in Sydney Melbourne, 2x25MHz in Brisbane Adelaide Perth Canberra, 2x10MHz in Victoria North Queensland Western Australia and 2x5MHz in Darwin Tasmania South Queensland.
2.1GHz band, VHA holds 2x25 MHz in Sydney Melbourne, 2x20MHz in Brisbane Adelaide Perth, 2x10MHz in Canberra Darwin Hobart and 2x5MHz in regional Australia.
9 Kenya Awaiting confirmation of full licence terms.
10 Ghana The NRA has issued provisional licences with the intention of converting them to full licences once the NRA has been reconvened.
204 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Regulation continued Unaudited information Mobile Termination Rates MTRs National regulators are required to take utmost account of the Commissions existing recommendation on the regulation of fixed and MTRs.
This recommendation requires MTRs to be set using a long run incremental cost methodology.
2 MTRs established from 1 April 2017 are included at the current rate or where a glide-path or a final decision has been determined by the national regulatory authority.
4 MTR under appeal and due to be heard September 2017.
