Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Information for investors The dividend reinvestment plan provides a convenient way Dividends, change of address and other shareholder services for shareholders to build up their shareholdings by using cash dividends to buy more shares in the company.
You can elect for Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid directly into the dividend reinvestment plan online at www.
com, a UK bank account, rather than by cheque to their registered where you can view the terms of service, or you can request address, can complete a mandate form for this purpose.
an application form by telephone on 0371 664 0381 or Mandates may be obtained from Capita Asset Services.
Where 44 371 664 0381 if calling from outside the United Kingdom.
dividends are paid directly into shareholders bank accounts, Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access dividend confirmation statements are sent to shareholders charge.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable registered addresses.
Lines are open between 9am and 5.30pm, Capita Asset Services also offer an international payment Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and service whereby overseas shareholders may convert their Wales.
Alternatively, an application form can be requested dividend payments into a chosen currency and receive payment by email from shares@capita.
either in the form of a currency draft or by a direct payment into an overseas bank account.
Details of the currencies available Caledonia Investments ISA under this service and how to apply, including terms and The Caledonia Investments Individual Savings Account ISA is conditions, are available online at www.
com by a tax efficient savings account that allows participants to invest clicking on your dividend options and following the on-screen up to an annual amount of 20,000 for the tax year ending instructions or an application pack can be requested by 5 April 2018.
Lump sum payments or regular monthly deposits telephone on 0871 664 0300 or 44 371 664 0300 if calling from can be made into the ISA.
Details of the ISA are available on outside the United Kingdom.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your Caledonias website or by request from the company.
phone companys access charge and calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme Lines are open between 9am and 5.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
The Caledonia Investments Share Savings Scheme is a plan that aims to provide a simple and flexible way for investors to Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address purchase shares in Caledonia.
Lump sum payments or regular held on the share register.
In the event of a change of address monthly deposits can be made into the Share Savings Scheme.
or other amendment, shareholders should notify Capita Asset Details of the Share Savings Scheme are available on Services, under the signature of the registered holder, or where Caledonias website or by request from the company.
there is more than one registered holder, under the signature of the first named holder.
PEPs and ISAs Post and telephone contact details for Capita Asset Services are Caledonias shares can be treated as qualifying investments shown on the opposite page.
Capita Asset Services also provide for the purposes of the PEP and ISA rules.
an online facility to enable shareholders to manage securely their shareholdings via the internet.
By registering to use the Share prices facility, shareholders can access a range of online services, including viewing shareholding details, transaction and The companys ordinary shares are premium listed on the dividend histories, change of address and bank mandate and London Stock Exchange under the SEDOL code of 0163992 or use of the online proxy voting service.
The online facility is TIDM code of CLDN.
Prices are published daily in the Financial available at www.
Times under the Investment Companies heading and in other leading newspapers and can also be viewed on the companys Capita Asset Services also offer a share dealing service and website at www.
dividend reinvestment plan for existing shareholders.
The share dealing service is available online at www.
com or by The ISIN code for Caledonias ordinary shares is GB0001639920.
telephone on 0371 664 0445 or 44 371 664 0445 if calling from outside the United Kingdom.
Calls are charged at the standard Monthly net asset value geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United The company releases a net asset value announcement and Kingdom will be charged at the standard geographic rate and will publishes a fact sheet shortly after each month end.
These can vary by provider.
Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, be found on the companys website at www.
Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
100 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 Financials TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
