150 Additional information QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Additional financial information Foreign exchange Relationships with tax authorities QinetiQ is As a UK-listed The Groups income and expenditure is largely settled committed to building constructive working in the functional currency of the relevant Group entity, relationships with tax authorities based on a policy company, the Group mainly Sterling or US Dollar.
The Group has a policy in of full disclosure in order to remove uncertainty in is required to adopt place to hedge all material transaction exposure at the its business transactions and allow the authorities to EU endorsed IFRSs point of commitment to the underlying transaction.
In the UK, QinetiQ seeks to be Uncommitted future transactions are not routinely open and transparent in its engagement with the tax and comply with the hedged.
The Group continues its practice of not authorities by sharing with HMRC the methodologies Companies Act 2006 hedging income statement translation exposure.
adopted in its tax returns.
Transfer pricing The Group does not have a The principal exchange rates affecting the Group were significant level of cross-border activity but, where the Sterling to US Dollar exchange rate and the Sterling it does have such transactions controls are in place to Australian Dollar rate.
to ensure pricing reflects arms length principles in compliance with the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines and the laws of the relevant jurisdictions.
The Group 12 months to 12 months to does not, therefore, have a significant exposure to 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 transfer pricing legislation.
US$ opening 1.44 1.49 Governance The Board has approved this approach.
US$ average 1.30 1.50 The Audit Committee oversees the tax affairs and US$ closing 1.25 1.44 risks through periodic reviews.
The governance A$ opening 1.87 1.95 framework is used to manage tax risks, establish A$ average 1.74 2.05 controls and monitor their effectiveness.
The Head A$ closing 1.64 1.87 of Tax is responsible for ensuring that appropriate policies, processes and systems are in place and that Treasury policy the tax team has the required skills and support to The Group treasury department works within a implement this approach.
framework of policies and procedures approved by the Audit Committee.
As part of these policies and QinetiQs corporate tax contribution QinetiQ is procedures, there is strict control on the use of financial liable to pay tax in the countries in which it operates, instruments.
Speculative trading in financial instruments principally the UK, the US, Australia, Canada and is not permitted.
The policies are established to manage Belgium.
Changes in tax legislation in these countries and control risk in the treasury environment and to could have an adverse impact on the level of tax paid align the treasury goals, objectives and philosophy on profits generated by the Group.
A significant majority of the Group.
of the Groups profit before tax is generated in the UK.
This reflects the fact that the majority of the Groups Tax risk management business is undertaken, and employees are based, in QinetiQs tax strategy is to ensure compliance with all the UK.
Total corporation tax payments in the year to relevant tax legislation, wherever we do business, whilst 31 March 2017 were 3.0m.
The differential between managing our effective tax rates and tax cash flows.
the taxation expense and the tax paid in the year relates Tax is managed in alignment with our corporate primarily to the timing of the recovery of research and responsibility strategy in that we strive to be responsible development expenditure credits for which the cash in all our business dealings.
These principles are applied is recovered in the year following the year of account.
in a consistent and transparent manner in pursuing the There is also an impact of deferred tax movements, tax strategy and in all dealings with tax authorities whereby the income statement bears a charge e. g. around the world.
in respect of accelerated capital allowances but for which there is no corporation tax paid in the year.
Tax planning QinetiQ manages both effective Together, these result in the cash paid being 5.2m less tax rate ETR and cash tax impacts in line with the than the total expense charged to the income statement.
External advice and consultation are sought on potential changes in Accounting standards tax legislation in the UK, the US and elsewhere as As a UK-listed company, the Group is required to adopt necessary, enabling the Group to plan for and mitigate EU endorsed IFRSs and comply with the Companies potential changes.
QinetiQ does not make use of Act 2006.
The effect of changes to financial reporting off-shore entities or tax structures to focus taxable standards in the year is disclosed in note 1 to the profits in jurisdictions that legislate for low tax rates.
