Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 99 Consolidated income statement for the years ended 31 March 1 1 Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Revenue 2 47,631 49,810 48,385 Cost of sales 34,576 36,713 35,073 Gross profit 13,055 13,097 13,312 Selling and distribution expenses 4,349 4,603 4,181 Administrative expenses 6,080 6,379 6,834 Share of results of equity accounted associates and joint ventures 47 60 78 Impairment losses 4 569 Other income expense 3 1,052 286 146 Operating profit 3 3,725 1,320 2,073 Non-operating expense 1 3 23 Investment income 5 474 539 1,083 Financing costs 5 1,406 2,046 1,399 Profit loss before taxation 2,792 190 1,734 Income tax expense credit 6 4,764 4,937 6,071 Loss profit for the financial year from continuing operations 1,972 5,127 7,805 Loss profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 7 4,107 5 328 Loss profit for the financial year 6,079 5,122 7,477 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 6,297 5,405 7,279 2 Non-controlling interests 218 283 198 Loss profit for the financial year 6,079 5,122 7,477 Loss earnings per share From continuing operations: Basic 7.83 c 20.27 c 28.72c Diluted 7.83 c 20.27 c 28.57c Total Group: Basic 8 22.51 c 20.25 c 27.48c Diluted 8 22.51 c 20.25 c 27.33c Notes: 1 See note 1 Basis of preparation.
2 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests solely derives from continuing operations.
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the years ended 31 March 1 1 Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Loss profit for the financial year 6,079 5,122 7,477 Other comprehensive income: Items that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years: Gains losses on revaluation of available-for-sale investments, net of tax 2 3 5 Foreign exchange translation differences, net of tax 1,201 3,030 3,681 Foreign exchange losses gains transferred to the income statement 282 1 Fair value losses gains transferred to the income statement 4 11 Other, net of tax 110 56 6 Total items that may be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years 1,085 2,695 3,680 Items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years: Net actuarial losses gains on defined benefit pension schemes, net of tax 26 272 174 291 Total items that will not be reclassified to the income statement in subsequent years 272 174 291 Other comprehensive expense income 1,357 2,521 3,389 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 7,436 7,643 10,866 Attributable to: Owners of the parent 7,535 7,579 10,272 Non-controlling interests 99 64 594 7,436 7,643 10,866 Note: 1 See note 1 Basis of preparation.
Further details on items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income can be found in the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 101.
2 See note 18 Called up share capital.
3 Includes share premium, capital reserve, capital redemption reserve, merger reserve and share-based payment reserve.
The merger reserve was derived from acquisitions made prior to 31 March 2004 and subsequently allocated to additional paid-in capital on adoption of IFRS.
4 The currency reserve is used to record cumulative translation differences on the assets and liabilities of foreign operations.
The cumulative translation differences are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
5 The investment reserve is used to record the cumulative fair value gains and losses on available-for-sale financial assets.
The cumulative gains and losses are recycled to the income statement on disposal of the assets.
6 The revaluation surplus derives from acquisitions of subsidiaries made before the Groups adoption of IFRS 3 Revised on 1 April 2010 and comprises the amounts arising from recognising the Groups pre-existing equity interest in the acquired subsidiary at fair value.
7 Includes the impact of the Groups cash flow hedges with 787 million net gain deferred to other comprehensive income during the year 2016: 337 million net gain: 2015: 768 million net gain and 654 million net gain 2016: 294 million net gain: 2015: 821 million net gain recycled to the income statement.
8 Includes 9 million tax credit 2016: 5 million credit: 2015: 9 million credit.
9 Includes amounts relating to foreign translation differences arising on the retranslation of reserves due to the change in the Groups presentation currency.
10 Includes the equity component of mandatory convertible bonds which were compound instruments issued in the year ended 31 March 2016.
102 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the years ended 31 March 1 1 Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 Note m m m Inflow from operating activities 19 14,223 14,336 12,668 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 28 28 57 3,906 Purchase of interests in associates and joint ventures 28 499 3 107 Purchase of intangible assets 10 2,576 5,618 2,813 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 11 6,285 8,265 7,324 Purchase of investments 13 2,219 106 258 Disposal of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 2 Disposal of interests in associates and joint ventures 4 29 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 11 43 164 191 Disposal of investments 3,597 1,888 1,107 Dividends received from associates and joint ventures 433 92 732 Interest received 434 342 288 Cash flows from discontinued operations 2,327 2,308 1,173 Outflow from investing activities 8,423 13,871 13,234 Cash flows from financing activities Issue of ordinary share capital and reissue of treasury shares 18 25 25 31 Net movement in short-term borrowings 1,293 11 5,578 Proceeds from issue of long-term borrowings 7,326 9,157 2,992 Repayment of borrowings 9,267 3,784 5,008 Issue of subordinated mandatory convertible bonds 3,480 Equity dividends paid 9 3,714 4,188 3,758 Dividends paid to non-controlling shareholders in subsidiaries 413 309 310 Other transactions with non-controlling shareholders in subsidiaries 5 67 867 Other movements in loans with associates and joint ventures 70 31 68 Interest paid 1,264 1,324 1,556 Cash flows from discontinued operations 3,157 1,134 196 Outflow inflow from financing activities 9,096 4,082 3,162 Net cash outflow inflow 3,296 4,547 3,728 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 20 12,911 9,492 12,245 Exchange loss gain on cash and cash equivalents 313 1,128 975 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year 20 9,302 12,911 9,492 Note: 1 See note 1 Basis of preparation.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 103 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation This section describes the critical accounting judgements and estimates that management has identified as havinga potentially material impact on the Groups consolidated financial statements and sets out our significant accounting policies that relate to the financial statements as a whole.
Where an accounting policy is generally applicable to a specific note to the financial statements, the policy is described within that note.
We have also detailed below the new accounting pronouncements that we will adopt in future years and our current view of the impact they will have on our financial reporting.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and are also prepared in accordance with IFRS adopted by the European Union EU, the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulations.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
A discussion on the Groups critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is detailed below.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period: they are recognised in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
With effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups presentation currency changed from sterling to the euro to better align with the geographic split of the Groups operations and the Group reclassified 580 million from goodwill to investments in associates and joint ventures in respect of Indus Towers within the consolidated statement of financial position to align with the Groups cash-generating unit classifications.
Prior periods, including the amounts presented for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015, together with all disclosed alternative performance measures, have been restated into euros using closing rates at the relevant balance sheet date for assets, liabilities, share capital, share premium and other capital reserves and the income statement has been restated at the average rate for the comparative period or the spot rate for significant transactions.
The results of Vodafone India are presented in results from discontinued operations in the current and prior periods and its assets and liabilities reported in assets and liabilities held for sale, respectively, at 31 March 2017.
Vodafone Group Plc is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales registration number 1833679.
The registered address of the Company is Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 2FN, England.
IFRS requires the Directors to adopt accounting policies that are the most appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
These have been applied consistently to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
In determining and applying accounting policies, Directors and management are required to make judgements in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the Groups reported financial position, results or cash flows: it may later be determined that a different choice may have been more appropriate.
Management has identified accounting judgements and estimates relating to revenue recognition, taxation, business combinations and goodwill, joint arrangements, finite lived intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, post employment benefits, provisions and contingent liabilities and impairment that it considers to be critical due to their impact on the Groups financial statements.
These critical accounting judgements, estimates and related disclosures have been discussed with the Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Revenue recognition Arrangements with multiple deliverables In revenue arrangements where more than one good or service is provided to the customer, customer consideration is allocated between the goods and services using relative fair value principles.
The fair values determined for deliverables may impact the timing of the recognition of revenue.
Determining the fair value of each deliverable can require complex estimates.
The Group generally determines the fair value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is regularly sold on a stand-alone basis after considering any appropriate volume discounts.
Gross versus net presentation When the Group sells goods or services as a principal, income and payments to suppliers are reported on a gross basis in revenue and operating costs.
If the Group sells goods or services as an agent, revenue and payments to suppliers are recorded in revenue on a net basis, representing the margin earned.
Whether the Group is considered to be the principal or an agent in the transaction depends on analysis by management of both the legal form and substance of the agreement between the Group and its business partners: such judgements impact the amount of reported revenue and operating expenses but do not impact reported assets, liabilities or cash flows.
Taxation The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge involves estimation and judgement in respect of certain matters where the tax impact is uncertain until a conclusion is reached with the relevant tax authority or through a legal process.
The Group uses in-house tax experts when assessing uncertain tax positions and seeks the advice of external professional advisors where appropriate.
Provisions are recognised for uncertain tax positions when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and management judge that it is probable that there will be a future outflow of economic benefits from the Group.
Provisions are measured using managements estimate of the most likely outcome.
The final resolution of uncertain tax positions may give rise to material profits, losses and or cash flows.
Resolving tax issues can take many years as it is not always within the control of the Group and often depends on the efficiency of legal processes in the relevant tax jurisdiction.
104 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Recognition of deferred tax assets Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting estimation and judgement include the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of losses in Luxembourg, Germany, Spain and India and capital allowances in the United Kingdom.
The recognition of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of tax losses, is based upon whether management judge that it is probable that there will be sufficient and suitable taxable profits in the relevant legal entity or tax group against which to utilise the assets in the future.
Judgement is required when determining probable future taxable profits.
The Group assesses the availability of future taxable profits using the same undiscounted five year forecasts for the Groups operations as are used in the Groups value in use calculations see Impairment reviews below.
Where tax losses are forecast to be recovered beyond the five year period, the availability of taxable profits is assessed using the cash flows and long-term growth rates used for the value in use calculations.
The estimated cash flows inherent in these forecasts include the unsystematic risks of operating in the telecommunications business including the potential impacts of changes in the market structure, trends in customer pricing, the costs associated with the acquisition and retention of customers, future technological evolutions and potential regulatory changes, such as our ability to acquire and or renew spectrum licences.
Changes in the estimates which underpin the Groups forecasts could have an impact on the amount of future taxable profits and could have a significant impact on the period over which the deferred tax asset would be recovered.
The Group only considers substantively enacted tax laws when assessing the amount and availability of tax losses to offset against the future taxable profits.
See note 6 Taxation to the consolidated financial statements.
Business combinations and goodwill When the Group completes a business combination, the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired, including intangible assets, are recognised.
The determination of the fair values of acquired assets and liabilities is based, to a considerable extent, on managements judgement.
If the purchase consideration exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired then the incremental amount paid is recognised as goodwill.
If the purchase price consideration is lower than the fair value of the assets acquired then the difference is recorded as a gain in the income statement.
Allocation of the purchase price between finite lived assets discussed below and indefinite lived assets such as goodwill affects the subsequent results of the Group as finite lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised.
On transition to IFRS the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3 Business combinations retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these requirements to business combinations completed by the Group between incorporation and 1 April 2004 exceeded any potential benefits.
Goodwill recorded before the date of transition to IFRS amounted to 117,775 million.
If the Group had elected to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill, licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax liabilities recognised on acquisition.
See note 28 Acquisitions and disposals to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Joint arrangements The Group participates in a number of joint arrangements where control of the arrangement is shared with one or more other parties.
A joint arrangement is classified as a joint operation or as a joint venture: depending on managements assessment of the legal form and substance of the arrangement, which may require the use of judgement.
The classification can have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows of joint operations are included in the consolidated financial statements on a line-by-line basis, whereas the Groups investment and share of results of joint ventures are shown within single line items in the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated income statement respectively.
See note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements to the consolidated financial statements.
The determination of gains or losses arising from the contribution or sale of a subsidiary as part of the formation of a joint arrangement requires management to make significant estimates to determine the present value of future cash flows to be generated by the joint arrangement in order to determine the fair value of non-cash consideration received.
Finite lived intangible assets Other intangible assets include amounts spent by the Group acquiring licences and spectrum, customer bases and brands and the costs of purchasing and developing computer software.
Where intangible assets are acquired through business combinations and no active market for the assets exists, the fair value of these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows generated by the asset.
Estimates relating to the future cash flows and discount rates used may have a material effect on the reported amounts of finite lived intangible assets.
Estimation of useful life The useful life over which intangible assets are amortised depends on managements estimate of the period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
Reducing the useful life will increase the amortisation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Useful lives are periodically reviewed to ensure that they remain appropriate.
The basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories of intangible assets is discussed below.
Licence and spectrum fees The estimated useful life is generally the term of the licence unless there is a presumption of renewal at negligible cost: this is adjusted if necessary, for example taking into account the impact of any expected changes in technology.
Customer bases The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 105 Capitalised software For computer software, the estimated useful life is based on managements view, considering historical experience with similar products as well as anticipation of future events which may impact their life such as changes in technology.
The useful life will not exceed the duration of a licence.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment represents 19.5% 2016: 21.0% of the Groups total assets: estimates and assumptions made may have a material impact on their carrying value and related depreciation charge.
See note 11 Property, plant and equipment to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
Estimation of useful life The depreciation charge for an asset is derived using estimates of its expected useful life and expected residual value, which are reviewed annually.
Increasing an assets expected life or residual value would result in a reduced depreciation charge in the consolidated income statement.
Management determines the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on experience with similar assets and taking into account other relevant factors such as any expected changes in technology.
The useful life of network infrastructure is assumed not to exceed the duration of related operating licences unless there is a reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for the asset.
Post employment benefits Management uses estimates when determining the Groups liabilities and expenses arising for defined benefit pension schemes.
Management is required to estimate the future rates of inflation, salary increases, discount rates and longevity of members, each of which may have a material impact on the defined benefit obligations that are recorded.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis, are included in note 26 Postemployment benefits to the consolidated financial statements.
Provisions and contingent liabilities The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
Judgement is necessary to assess the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or a liability will arise, and estimates are required to determine the possible range of any financial settlement.
The inherent uncertainty of such matters means that actual losses may materially differ from estimates.
Impairment reviews IFRS requires management to perform impairment tests annually for indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not be recoverable.
Impairment testing requires management to judge whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by the net present value of future cash flows that they generate.
Calculating the net present value of the future cash flows requires estimates to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters including managements expectations of: growth in adjusted EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before depreciation and amortisation: timing and amount of future capital expenditure, licence and spectrum payments: long-term growth rates: and appropriate discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Management prepares formal five year forecasts for the Groups operations, which are used to estimate their value in use.
In certain developing markets ten year forecasts are used if it is considered that the fifth year of a forecast is not indicative of expected long-term future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For operations where five year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and the long-term compound annual growth rate in adjusted EBITDA in years six to ten estimated by management.
For operations where ten year forecasts are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long-term growth rate into perpetuity has been: the nominal GDP growth rates for the country of operation: and the compound annual growth rate in adjusted EBITDA in years nine to ten of the management plan.
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation and hence reported assets and profits or losses.
Further details, including a sensitivity analysis, are included in note 4 Impairment losses to the consolidated financial statements.
For discontinued operations, impairment testing requires management to determine whether the carrying value of the discontinued operation can be supported by the fair value less costs to sell.
Where not observable in a quoted market, management have determined fair value less costs to sell by reference to the outcomes from the application of a number of potential valuation techniques, determined from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
106 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Significant accounting policies applied in the current reporting period that relate to the financial statements as a whole Accounting convention The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis except for certain financial and equity instruments that have been measured at fair value.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company, subsidiaries controlled by the Company see note 33 Related undertakings to the consolidated financial statements and joint operations that are subject to joint control see note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in euro, which became the Companys functional currency on 1 April 2016 as the primary currency in which the Companys financing activities and investment returns are denominated.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that functional currency.
Similarly, with effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups presentation currency was changed from sterling to euro to better align with the geographic split of the Groups operations.
Amounts presented for the years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2015 have been translated into euros using closing rates at the relevant balance sheet date for amounts recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated statement of changes in equity and average rates for the relevant year for amounts reported in the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of comprehensive income and consolidated statement of cash flows.
The change of presentation and functional currency has not changed either the Groups or the Companys foreign exchange management strategy.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the respective functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the initial transaction dates.
Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Changes in the fair value of monetary securities denominated in foreign currency classified as available-for-sale are analysed between translation differences and other changes in the carrying amount of the security.
Translation differences are recognised in the income statement and other changes in carrying amount are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets, such as investments in equity securities classified as available-for-sale, are reported as part of the fair value gain or loss and are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Share capital, share premium and other capital reserves are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of the transaction and are not retranslated.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of entities with a functional currency other than euro are expressed in euro using exchange rates prevailing at the reporting period date.
Income and expense items and cash flows are translated at the average exchange rates for the period and exchange differences arising are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative amount previously recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in profit or loss.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated accordingly.
In respect of all foreign operations, any exchange differences that have arisen before 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, are deemed to be nil and will be excluded from the determination of any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
The net foreign exchange loss recognised in the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2017 is 637 million 31 March 2016: 1,141 million loss: 2015: 261 million gain.
The net gains and net losses are recorded within operating profit 2017: 133 million charge: 2016: 24 million credit: 2015: 8 million charge, other income and expense and non-operating income and expense 2017: nil: 2016: 282 million charge: 2015: 1 million credit, investment and financing income 2017: 505 million charge: 2016: 872 million charge: 2015: 263 million credit and income tax expense 2017: 1 million credit: 2016: 11 million charge: 2015: 5 million credit.
The foreign exchange gains and losses included within other income and expense and non-operating income and expense arise on the disposal of interests in joint ventures, associates and investments from the recycling of foreign exchange gains previously recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
New accounting pronouncements adopted on 1 April 2016 On 1 April 2016 the Group adopted the following new accounting policies to comply with amendments to IFRS.
The accounting pronouncements, none of which is considered by the Group as significant on adoption, are: Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation: Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations: and Improvements to IFRS: 2012-2014 cycle.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 107 New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on 1 April 2017 The following pronouncements which are potentially relevant to the Group have been issued by the IASB are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and which have not yet been endorsed by the EU: Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: Amendments to IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative: which requires additional disclosures of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: and Amendments to IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in other entities part of Improvements to IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle.
The Groups financial reporting will be presented in accordance with the new standards above, which are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group, from 1 April 2017.
New accounting pronouncements to be adopted on or after 1 April 2018 The following pronouncements which are potentially relevant to the Group have been issued by the IASB are effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2018 and which have not yet been endorsed by the EU: Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions: Amendments to IFRS 4 Applying IFRS 9 Financial Instruments with IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts: Amendment to IAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures part of Improvements to IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle : and IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration.
The Groups financial reporting will be presented in accordance with the new standards above, which are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated results, financial position or cash flows of the Group, from 1 April 2018.
In addition, the Group will adopt the following standards, which have been issued by the IASB: On 1 April 2018 the Group will adopt IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which are effective for accounting periods on or after 1 January 2018 and which have been endorsed by the EU.
On 1 April 2019 the Group will adopt IFRS 16 Leases, which has not yet been endorsed by the EU and is effective for accounting periods beginning on or before 1 January 2019.
IFRS 9, IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 are significant new standards, the impacts of which on the Groups financial reporting are currently being assessed.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued in July 2014 to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and has been endorsed by the EU.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 and will be adopted by the Group on 1 April 2018.
IFRS 9 will impact the classification and measurement of the Groups financial instruments and will require certain additional disclosures.
The primary changes relate to the assessment of hedging arrangements and provisioning for potential future credit losses on financial assets: the Group is continuing to analyse the impact of these changes which are not currently considered likely to have any major impact on the Groups current accounting treatment or hedging activities.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which has been endorsed by the EU, was issued in May 2014 and subsequent amendments, Clarifications to IFRS 15, which have not yet been endorsed by the EU, were issued in April 2016.
IFRS 15, as amended, is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue and costs from contracts with customers and includes extensive disclosure requirements: it will have a material impact on the Groups reporting of revenue and costs as follows: IFRS 15 will require the Group to identify deliverables in contracts with customers that qualify as separate performance obligations.
The performance obligations identified will depend on the nature of individual customer contracts, but might typically be identified for mobile handsets, other equipment provided to customers and for services provided to customers such as mobile and fixed line communications services.
The transaction price receivable from customers must be allocated between the Groups performance obligations under the contracts on a relative stand-alone selling price basis.
Revenue will then be recognised either at a point in time or over time when the respective performance obligations in a contract are delivered to the customer.
Stand-alone selling prices will be based on observable sales prices: however, where stand-alone selling prices are not directly observable, estimates of stand-alone selling prices will be required which will maximise the use of observable inputs Currently revenue allocated to deliverables is restricted to the amount that is receivable without the delivery of additional goods or services: this restriction will no longer be applied under IFRS 15.
The primary impact on revenue reporting will be that when the Group sells subsidised devices together with airtime service agreements to customers, revenue allocated to equipment and recognised at contract inception, when control of the device typically passes to the customer, will increase and revenue subsequently recognised as services are delivered during the contract period will reduce.
Where additional up-front unbilled revenue is recorded for the sale of devices, this will be reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position as a contract asset.
108 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Under IFRS 15, certain incremental costs incurred in acquiring a contract with a customer will be deferred on the consolidated statement of financial position and amortised as revenue is recognised under the related contract: this will generally lead to the later recognition of charges for some commissions payable to third party dealers and employees.
Certain costs incurred in fulfilling customer contracts will be deferred on the consolidated statement of financial position under IFRS 15 and recognised as related revenue is recognised under the contract.
Such deferred costs are likely to relate to the provision of deliverables to customers that do not qualify as performance obligations and for which revenue is not recognised: currently such costs are generally expensed as incurred.
The impact of the changes above on the Groups reportable segments will depend largely on the extent to which customers receive discounted goods or services, such as mobile handsets, when they enter into airtime service agreements with the Group in the relevant markets.
The combined impact of the changes is expected to increase the gross profit, or reduce the gross loss, recorded at inception on many customer contracts: in such cases, this will typically reduce the gross profit reported during the remainder of the contract: however, these timing differences will not impact the total gross profit reported for a customer contract over the contract term.
The transactions impacted by IFRS 15 are high in volume, value and complexity, therefore the Group is continuing to assess the impact of these and other accounting changes that will arise under IFRS 15 and cannot reasonably estimate the impact: however, the changes highlighted above will have a material impact on the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of financial position after the Group adopts IFRS 15 on 1 April 2018.
The Group expects to be in a position to estimate the impact of IFRS 15 early in the first quarter of the year commencing 1 April 2018.
When IFRS 15 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in the financial statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact of IFRS 15 applied as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: when the latter approach is applied it is necessary to disclose the impact of IFRS 15 on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting period.
The Group will reflect the cumulative impact of IFRS 15 in equity on the date of adoption.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 to replace IAS 17 Leases.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 and will be adopted by the Group on 1 April 2019.
IFRS 16 has not yet been adopted by the EU.
IFRS 16 will primarily change lease accounting for lessees: lease agreements will give rise to the recognition of an asset representing the right to use the leased item and a loan obligation for future lease payables.
Lease costs will be recognised in the form of depreciation of the right to use asset and interest on the lease liability.
Lessee accounting under IFRS 16 will be similar in many respects to existing IAS 17 accounting for finance leases, but will be substantively different to existing accounting for operating leases where rental charges are currently recognised on a straight-line basis and no lease asset or lease loan obligation is recognised.
Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is similar to existing IAS 17 accounting and is not expected to have a material impact for the Group.
The Group is assessing the impact of the accounting changes that will arise under IFRS 16: however, the following changes to lessee accounting will have a material impact as follows: Right-of-use assets will be recorded for assets that are leased by the Group: currently no lease assets are included on the Groups consolidated statement of financial position for operating leases.
Liabilities will be recorded for future lease payments in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position for the reasonably certain period of the lease, which may include future lease periods for which the Group has extension options.
Currently liabilities are generally not recorded for future operating lease payments, which are disclosed as commitments.
The amount of lease liabilities will not equal the lease commitments reported on 31 March 2019, but may not be dissimilar.
Lease expenses will be for depreciation of right-of-use assets and interest on lease liabilities: interest will typically be higher in the early stages of a lease and reduce over the term.
Currently operating lease rentals are expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term within operating expenses.
Operating lease cash flows are currently included within operating cash flows in the consolidated statement of cash flows: under IFRS 16 these will be recorded as cash flows from financing activities reflecting the repayment of lease liabilities borrowings and related interest.
A high volume of transactions will be impacted by IFRS 16 and material judgements are required in identifying and accounting for leases.
Therefore, the Group is continuing to assess the impact of these and other accounting changes that will arise under IFRS 16 and cannot reasonably estimate the impact: however, the changes highlighted above will have a material impact on the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated statement of cash flows after the Groups adoption on 1 April 2019.
When IFRS 16 is adopted, it can be applied either on a fully retrospective basis, requiring the restatement of the comparative periods presented in the financial statements, or with the cumulative retrospective impact of IFRS 16 applied as an adjustment to equity on the date of adoption: when the latter approach is applied it is necessary to disclose the impact of IFRS 16 on each line item in the financial statements in the reporting period.
Depending on the adoption method that is utilised, certain practical expedients may be applied on adoption.
The Group has not yet determined which adoption method will be adopted or which expedients will be applied on adoption.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 109 2.
Segmental analysis The Groups businesses are managed on a geographical basis.
Selected financial data is presented on this basisbelow.
The Groups operating segments are established on the basis of those components of the Group that are evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.
The Group has a single group of related services and products, being the supply of communications services and products.
Revenue is attributed to a country or region based on the location of the Group company reporting the revenue.
Transactions between operating segments are charged at arms-length prices.
Segment information is provided on the basis of geographic areas, being the basis on which the Group manages its worldwide interests, with each country in which the Group operates treated as an operating segment.
The aggregation of operating segments into the Europe and AMAP regions reflects, in the opinion of management, the similar economic characteristics within each of those regions as well the similar products and services offered and supplied, classes of customers and the regulatory environment.
In the case of the Europe region this largely reflects membership of the European Union, while for the AMAP region this largely includes emerging and developing economies that are in the process of rapid growth and industrialisation.
Certain financial information is provided separately within the Europe region for Germany, Italy, the UK and Spain, and within the AMAP region for India and Vodacom, as these operating segments are individually material for the Group.
The segmental revenue and profit of India are included in discontinued operations for all years reported and segmental assets and cash flows are included in assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 March 2017.
See note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for resale for details.
Accounting policies Revenue Revenue is recognised to the extent the Group has delivered goods or rendered services under an agreement, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group.
Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable, exclusive of sales taxes and discounts.
The Group principally obtains revenue from providing mobile and fixed telecommunication services including: access charges, voice and video calls, messaging, interconnect fees, fixed and mobile broadband and related services such as providing televisual and music content, connection fees and equipment sales.
Products and services may be sold separately or in bundled packages.
Revenue for access charges, voice and video calls, messaging and fixed and mobile broadband provided to contract customers is recognised as services are performed, with unbilled revenue resulting from services already provided accrued at the end of each period and unearned revenue from services to be provided in future periods deferred.
Revenue from the sale of prepaid credit is deferred until such time as the customer uses the airtime, or the credit expires.
Revenue from interconnect fees is recognised at the time the services are performed.
Revenue for the provision of televisual and music content is recognised when or as the Group performs the related service and, depending on the nature of the service, is recognised either at the gross amount billed to the customer or the amount receivable by the Group as commission for facilitating the service.
Customer connection revenue is recognised together with the related equipment revenue to the extent that the aggregate equipment and connection revenue does not exceed the fair value of the equipment delivered to the customer.
Any customer connection revenue not recognised, together with any related excess equipment revenue, is deferred and recognised over the period in which services are expected to be provided to the customer.
Revenue for device sales is recognised when the device is delivered to the end customer and the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred.
For device sales made to intermediaries, revenue is recognised if the significant risks associated with the device are transferred to the intermediary and the intermediary has no general right to return the device to receive a refund.
If the significant risks are not transferred, revenue recognition is deferred until sale of the device to an end customer by the intermediary or the expiry of any right of return.
In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting.
Deliverables are considered separate units of accounting if the following two conditions are met: i the deliverable has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and ii there is evidence of the fair value of the item.
The arrangement consideration is allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on its relative fair value.
Revenue allocated to deliverables is restricted to the amount that is receivable without the delivery of additional goods or services.
This restriction typically applies to revenue recognised for devices provided to customers, including handsets.
Commissions Intermediaries are given cash incentives by the Group to connect new customers and upgrade existing customers.
For intermediaries who do not purchase products and services from the Group, such cash incentives are accounted for as an expense.
Such cash incentives to other intermediaries are also accounted for as an expense if: the Group receives an identifiable benefit in exchange for the cash incentive that is separable from sales transactions to that intermediary: and the Group can reliably estimate the fair value of that benefit.
Cash incentives that do not meet these criteria are recognised as a reduction of the related revenue.
110 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
This had the effect of reducing equipment revenue and decreasing direct expenses, with no impact on profits or cash flows.
The impact on the year ended 31 March 2015 is not material.
Total revenue recorded in respect of the sale of goods for the year ended 31 March 2017 was 4,029 million 2016: 4,472 million, 2015: 4,101 million.
The Groups measure of segment profit, adjusted EBITDA, excludes depreciation, amortisation, impairment loss, restructuring costs, loss on disposal of fixed assets, the Groups share of results in associates and joint ventures and other income and expense.
A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to operating profit is shown overleaf.
For a reconciliation of operating profit to profit for the financial year, see the consolidated income statement on page99.
2 Includes additions to property, plant and equipment and computer software, reported within intangibles.
Excludes licences and spectrum additions.
3 The Groups measure of segment cash flow is reconciled to the closest equivalent GAAP measure cash generated by operations, on page 206.
112 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Operating profit Detailed below are the key amounts recognised in arriving at our operating profit Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m 1 Net foreign exchange losses gains 133 24 8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment note 11 : Owned assets 6,253 6,333 5,754 Leased assets 12 45 25 Amortisation of intangible assets note 10 4,821 5,319 5,329 Impairment of goodwill in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements note 4 569 Staff costs note 25 5,519 5,804 5,171 Operating lease rentals payable 3,976 2,464 2,376 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 22 27 93 Own costs capitalised attributable to the construction or acquisition of property, plant and equipment 800 764 701 2 Net gain on formation of VodafoneZiggo note 28 1,275 Notes: 1 Includes 127 million reported in other income and expense in the consolidated income statement.
2 Reported in other income and expense in the consolidated income statement.
The total remuneration of the Groups auditor,  LLP and other member firms of  International Limited, for services provided to the Group during the year ended 31 March 2017 is analysed below.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Parent company 2 2 2 Subsidiaries 14 13 13 Audit fees: 16 15 15 1 Audit-related fees 4 2 1 2 Other assurance services 1 2 Tax fees 3 Non-audit fees: 4 2 5 Total fees 20 17 20 Notes: 1 Relates to fees for statutory and regulatory filings.
The increase in the amount for the year ended 31 March 2017 primarily arose from work on regulatory filings prepared in anticipation of a potential IPO of Vodafone India that was under consideration prior to the agreement for the merger of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular.
2 At the time of the Board decision to recommend  LLP as the statutory auditor for the year ended 31 March 2015 in February 2014,  LLP were providing a range of services to the Group.
All services that were prohibited by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC for a statutory auditor to provide, ceased by 31 March 2014.
All engagements that are not prohibited by the SEC, but would not have met the Groups own internal approval policy for non-audit services, ceased by 30 June 2014 to enable a transition to alternative suppliers, where required.
These services had a value of approximately 3 million through to completion and are included in the table above.
A description of the work performed by the Audit and Risk Committee in order to safeguard auditor independence when non-audit services are provided is set out in the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages 57 to 63.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 113 4.
Impairment losses Impairment occurs when the carrying value of assets is greater than the present value of the net cash flows they are expected to generate.
We review the carrying value of assets for each country in which we operate at least annually.
For further details of our impairment review process see Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies Goodwill Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows, known as cashgenerating units.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are not reversible in subsequent periods.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
The Group prepares and approves formal five year management plans for its operations, which are used in the value in use calculations.
In certain developing markets the fifth year of the management plan may not be indicative of the long-term future performance as operations may not have reached maturity.
For these operations, the Group may extend the plan data for an additional five year period.
Property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets At each reporting period date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment and finite lived intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, not to exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years and an impairment loss reversal is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Impairment losses Following our annual impairment review, the impairment charges recognised in the consolidated income statement within operating profit in respect of goodwill are stated below.
The impairment losses were based on value in use calculations.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 Cash-generating unit Reportable segment m m m Romania Other Europe 569 569 In addition to the impairment losses above, in the first half of the 2017 financial year, the Group recorded a non-cash impairment of 6.4 billion, relating to our Indian business.
This was driven by lower projected cash flows within our business plan as a result of increased competition in the market.
Impairment testing at 31 March 2017, following the announcement of the merger of Vodafone India with Idea Cellular, gave rise to a partial reversal of that impairment.
As a result, the Group recorded an overall impairment loss of 4,515 million 2016: nil, 2015: nil in respect of the fair value of Groups investment in India which, together with the recognition of an associated 840 million deferred tax assets, led to an overall 3,675 million reduction in the carrying value of Vodafone India, the results of which are included discontinued operations.
See note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for resale for further details.
Goodwill The remaining carrying value of goodwill at 31 March was as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m Germany 12,479 12,479 Italy 3,654 3,654 Spain 3,814 3,814 19,947 19,947 Other 6,861 8,291 26,808 28,238 114 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Impairment losses continued Key assumptions used in the value in use calculations The key assumptions used in determining the value in use are: Assumption How determined Projected adjusted Projected adjusted EBITDA has been based on past experience adjusted for the following: EBITDA voice and messaging revenue is expected to benefit from increased usage from new customers, especially in emerging markets, the introduction of new services and traffic moving from fixed networks to mobile networks, though these factors will be offset by increased competitor activity, which may result in price declines, and the trend of falling termination and other regulated rates: non-messaging data revenue is expected to continue to grow as the penetration of 3G plus 4G where available enabled devices and smartphones rise along with higher data bundle attachment rates, and newproducts and services are introduced: and margins are expected to be impacted by negative factors such as the cost of acquiring and retaining customers in increasingly competitive markets and the expectation of further termination rate cuts by regulators and by positive factors such as the efficiencies expected from the implementation of Groupinitiatives.
Projected capital The cash flow forecasts for capital expenditure are based on past experience and include the ongoing capital expenditure expenditure required to roll out networks in emerging markets, to provide voice and data products and services and to meet the population coverage requirements of certain of the Groups licences.
Capital expenditure includes cash outflows for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and computer software.
Projected licence and The cash flow forecasts for licence and spectrum payments for each operating company for the initial five years include spectrum payments amounts for expected renewals and newly available spectrum.
Beyond that period, a long-run cost of spectrum is assumed.
Long-term growth rate For businesses where the five year management plans are used for the Groups value in use calculations, along-term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and the long-term compound annual growth rate in adjusted EBITDA in years six to ten estimated by management.
Pre-tax risk adjusted The discount rate applied to the cash flows of each of the Groups operations is generally based on the risk free rate for discount rate ten year bonds issued by the government in the respective market.
Where government bond rates contain a material component of credit risk, high-quality local corporate bond rates may be used.
These rates are adjusted for a risk premium to reflect both the increased risk of investing in equities and the systematic risk of the specific Group operating company.
In making this adjustment, inputs required are the equity market risk premium that is the required increased return required over and above a risk free rate by an investor who is investing in the market as a whole and the risk adjustment, beta, applied to reflect the risk of the specific Group operating company relative to the market as a whole.
In determining the risk adjusted discount rate, management has applied an adjustment for the systematic risk to each of the Groups operations determined using an average of the betas of comparable listed mobile telecommunications companies and, where available and appropriate, across a specific territory.
Management has used a forward-looking equity market risk premium that takes into consideration both studies by independent economists, the average equity market risk premium over the past ten years and the market risk premiums typically used by investment banks in evaluating acquisitionproposals.
Year ended 31 March 2017 As a discontinued operation, Vodafone India has been valued at fair value less costs to sell.
Vodafone Indias fair value less costs to sell is not observable in a quoted market and accordingly it has been determined with reference to the outcomes from the application of a number of potential 1 valuation techniques, which are considered to result in a level 2 valuation.
As such significant judgement is required and involves the use of estimates.
The two bases of valuation which were given the strongest weighting in the overall assessment of fair value are set out below.
Fair value has been assessed to be 14.0 billion.
The contracted cash price for the sale of a portion of the entity to the Aditya Birla Group as part of the planned disposal of Vodafone India, adjusted for the agreed level of debt which is an observable price relating to Vodafone India: and The share price of Idea Cellular prior to the announcement of the plan to dispose of Vodafone India and participate with Idea Cellular in the planned jointly controlled entity, adjusted for transaction specific factors.
Idea Cellular equity shares are the primary component of the consideration for Vodafone India to be received by the Group, and the value of the Idea Cellular shares has been adjusted to reflect 50% of the estimated cost synergies that management expects to be realised by the jointly controlled entity.
A 10% increase or reduction in the expected cost synergies included in this determination of fair value would result in a 220 million increase or reduction, respectively, in the fair value less costs to sell of Vodafone India calculated using this approach.
Note: 1 Level 2 classification comprises items where fair value is determined from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 115 The table below shows key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
Assumptions used in value in use calculation Germany Spain Italy Romania % % % % Pre-tax adjusted discount rate 8.4 9.7 10.3 9.0 Long-term growth rate 0.5 1.5 1.0 1.0 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 3.0 7.9 0.8 0.1 2 Projected capital expenditure 14.916.5 14.315.8 12.714.2 12.615.9 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
2 Projected capital expenditure, which excludes licences and spectrum, is expressed as the range of capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any cash-generating unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amount of the Groups operations in Germany, Spain and Romania exceed their carrying values by 3.5 billion, 1.0 billion and 0.2 billion respectively.
The changes in the following table to assumptions used in the impairment review would, in isolation, leadto an impairment loss being recognised for the year ended 31 March 2017: Change required for carrying value to equal recoverable amount Germany Spain Romania pps pps pps Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 0.9 0.6 1.5 Long-term growth rate 1.0 0.7 1.7 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 1.6 1.1 1.9 2 Projected capital expenditure 7.6 4.4 7.1 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
The carrying values for Vodafone UK, Portugal, Ireland and Czech Republic include goodwill arising from their acquisition by the Group and or the purchase of operating licences or spectrum rights.
While the recoverable amounts for these operating companies are not materially greater than their carrying value, each has a lower risk of giving rise to impairment that would be material to the Group given their relative size or the composition of their carrying value.
The changes in the following table to assumptions used in the impairment review would have, in isolation, led to an impairment loss being recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017.
Change required for carrying value to equal recoverable amount UK Ireland Portugal Czech Republic pps pps pps pps Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 0.5 0.8 0.6 2.1 Long-term growth rate 0.6 0.9 0.6 2.4 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 0.8 1.2 0.9 2.8 2 Projected capital expenditure 3.2 4.3 3.9 12.0 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
Year ended 31 March 2016 During the year ended 31 March 2016 impairment charges of 569 million were recorded in respect of the Groups investments in Romania.
The impairment charge relates solely to goodwill.
The recoverable amount of Romania is 0.9 billion.
The impairment charges were driven by lower projected cash flows within the business plans resulting in our reassessment of expected future business performance in the light of the current trading environment.
The table below shows key assumptions used in the value in use calculations.
Assumptions used in value in use calculation Romania Germany Spain % % % Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 9.7 8.2 9.7 Long-term growth rate 1.0 0.5 1.5 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 0.3 3.1 8.8 2 Projected capital expenditure 11.518.8 14.515.6 11.219.7 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
116 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Impairment losses continued Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any cash-generating unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the Groups operations in Romania, Germany and Spain are equal to, or not materially greater than, their carrying values: consequently, any adverse change in key assumptions would, in isolation, cause a further impairment loss to be recognised.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the Groups operations in Germany and Spain exceed their carrying values by 2.0 billion and 1.0billion respectively.
Change required for carrying value to equal the recoverable amount Germany Spain pps pps Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 0.5 0.6 Long-term growth rate 0.5 0.8 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 0.9 1.2 2 Projected capital expenditure 4.4 4.8 The changes in the following table to assumptions used in the impairment review would have, in isolation, led to an increase decrease to the aggregate impairment loss recognised in the year ended 31 March 2016.
Romania Increase by 2pps Decrease by 2pps bn bn Pre-tax adjusted discount rate 0.2 0.3 Long-term growth rate 0.3 0.2 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 0.2 0.2 2 Projected capital expenditure 0.1 0.1 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
Year ended 31 March 2015 During the year ended 31 March 2015, no impairment charges were recorded in respect of the Groups goodwill balances.
Assumptions used in value in use calculation Germany Italy Spain % % % Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 8.2 10.5 9.8 Long-term growth rate 0.5 1.0 1.5 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 3.2 0.8 11.0 2 Projected capital expenditure 11.621.7 12.5 25.6 11.5 23.3 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
Sensitivity analysis Other than as disclosed below, management believed that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of any cash-generating unit to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
The estimated recoverable amounts of the Groups operations in Germany, Italy and Spain exceeded their carrying values by 3.1 billion, 1.8 billion and 0.5 billion respectively.
The changes in the following table to assumptions used in the impairment review would have, in isolation, led to an impairment loss being recognised for the year ended 31 March 2015: Change required for carrying value to equal the recoverable amount Germany Italy Spain pps pps pps Pre-tax risk adjusted discount rate 0.8 1.6 0.3 Long-term growth rate 0.9 1.8 0.3 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA 7.3 7.5 2.6 2 Projected capital expenditure 2.1 2.9 0.7 Notes: 1 Projected adjusted EBITDA is expressed as the compound annual growth rates in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
2 Projected capital expenditure, which excludes licences and spectrum, is expressed as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years for all cash-generating units of the plans used for impairment testing.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 117 5.
Investment income and financing costs Investment income comprises interest received from short-term investments, bank deposits, government bonds and results from foreign exchange contracts which are used to hedge net debt.
Financing costs mainly arise from interest due on bonds and commercial paper issued, bank loans and the results of hedging transactions used to manage foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Investment income: Available-for-sale investments: Dividends received 1 Loans and receivables at amortised cost 426 529 433 Fair value through the income statement held for trading 20 9 36 1,2 Other 28 614 474 539 1,083 Financing costs: Items in hedge relationships: Other loans 170 224 286 Interest rate and cross-currency interest rate swaps 235 127 143 Fair value hedging instrument 22 140 537 Fair value of hedged item 16 166 487 Other financial liabilities held at amortised cost: Bank loans and overdrafts 419 284 518 2 Bonds and other loans 1,243 926 849 3 Interest charge credit on settlement of tax issues 47 19 1 4 Equity put rights and similar arrangements 12 Fair value through the income statement held for trading : Derivatives forward starting swaps and futures 244 121 72 1 Other 573 1,406 2,046 1,399 Net financing costs 932 1,507 316 Notes: 1 Amounts for 2017 include net foreign exchange gain of 136 million 2016: 573 million loss: 2015: 614 million gain arising from net foreign exchange movements on certain intercompany balances.
2 Amounts for 2017 include net foreign exchange losses of 641 million 2016: 299 million: 2015: 351 million.
3 Amounts for 2017 include an increase 2016: increase, 2017: decrease in provision for potential interest on tax issues.
4 Includes amounts in relation to the Groups arrangements with its non-controlling interests.
118 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Taxation This note explains how our Group tax charge arises.
The deferred tax section of the note also provides information on our expected future tax charges and sets out the tax assets held across the Group together with our view on whether or not we expect to be able to make use of these in the future.
Accounting policies Income tax expense represents the sum of the current and deferred taxes.
Current tax payable or recoverable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the income statement because some items of income or expense are taxable or deductible in different years or may never be taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability forcurrent tax is calculated using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable in the future arising from temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
It is accounted for using the statement of financial position liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that temporary differences or taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are not recognised to theextent they arise from the initial recognition of non-tax deductible goodwill.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint arrangements, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting period date and adjusted to reflect changes in the Groups assessment that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting period date.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they either relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or on different taxable entities which intend to settle the current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Tax is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited to other comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case the tax is recognised in other comprehensive income or in equity.
Income tax expense Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m United Kingdom corporation tax expense income : 1 Current year 27 129 Adjustments in respect of prior years 3 53 15 24 76 15 Overseas current tax expense income : Current year 961 812 937 Adjustments in respect of prior years 35 21 220 926 833 717 Total current tax expense 950 757 732 Deferred tax on origination and reversal of temporary differences: United Kingdom deferred tax 16 32 53 Overseas deferred tax 3,830 4,212 6,750 Total deferred tax expense income 3,814 4,180 6,803 2 Total income tax expense income 4,764 4,937 6,071 Notes: 1 The 2016 credit relates to a claim under international conventions for the avoidance of double taxation.
2 The income statement tax charge includes tax relief on capitalised interest.
UK operating profits are more than offset by statutory allowances for capital investment in the UK network and systems plus ongoing interest costs including those arising from the 10.3 billion of spectrum payments to the UK Government in 2000 and 2013.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 119 Tax on discontinued operations Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m 1 Tax credit charge on profit from ordinary activities of discontinued operations 973 514 26 Tax charge relating to the gain on discontinuance 95 Total tax credit charge on discontinued operations 878 514 26 Note: 1 Includes 840 million relating to the impairment of Vodafone India in the year.
Tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current tax 16 81 2 Deferred tax 44 293 362 Total tax charged credited directly to other comprehensive income 28 212 360 Tax credited directly to equity Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current tax 8 5 Deferred tax 9 3 4 Total tax credited directly to equity 9 5 9 Factors affecting the tax expense for the year The table below explains the differences between the expected tax expense, being the aggregate of the Groups geographical split of profits multiplied by the relevant local tax rates and the Groups total tax expense for each year.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Continuing profit loss before tax as shown in the consolidated income statement 2,792 190 1,734 Aggregated expected income tax expense 795 85 517 Impairment losses with no tax effect 168 Disposal of Group investments 271 83 Effect of taxation of associates and joint ventures, reported within profit before tax 23 18 44 1 Derecognition recognition of deferred tax assets for losses including Luxembourg 1,603 1,288 4,176 1 Deferred tax following revaluation of investments in Luxembourg 329 3,037 2,659 Previously unrecognised temporary differences we expect to use in the future 15 Previously unrecognised temporary differences utilised in the year 11 8 Current year temporary differences including losses that we currently do not expect to use 139 50 176 Adjustments in respect of prior year tax liabilities 107 48 364 Revaluation of assets for tax purposes 39 Impact of tax credits and irrecoverable taxes 98 38 36 Deferred tax on overseas earnings 26 17 49 Effect of current year changes in statutory tax rates on deferred tax balances 2,755 95 153 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 97 226 153 Income tax expense income 4,764 4,937 6,071 Note: 1 See commentary regarding deferred tax asset recognition in Luxembourg on page 121.
120 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Taxation continued Deferred tax Analysis of movements in the net deferred tax balance during the year: m 1 April 2016 restated 27,742 Foreign exchange movements 19 Charged to the income statement continuing operations 3,814 Credited to the income statement discontinued operations 973 Charged directly to OCI 44 Credited directly to equity 9 Reclassifications 1,202 Arising on acquisition and disposals 82 31 March 2017 23,765 Deferred tax assets and liabilities, before offset of balances within countries, are as follows: Amount Net charged recognised credited Gross Gross Less deferred tax in income deferred deferred tax amounts liability statement tax asset liability unrecognised asset m m m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 160 1,368 1,535 55 222 Intangible assets 353 127 715 16 572 Tax losses 4,064 30,590 7,138 23,452 Deferred tax on overseas earnings 95 95 95 Other temporary differences 168 1,347 126 19 1,202 31 March 2017 3,814 33,432 2,471 7,196 23,765 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are analysed in the statement of financial position, after offset of balances within countries, as follows: m Deferred tax asset 24,300 Deferred tax liability 535 31 March 2017 23,765 At 31 March 2016, deferred tax assets and liabilities, before offset of balances within countries, were as follows: Amount Net credited recognised charged Gross Gross Less deferred tax in income deferred deferred tax amounts liability 1 statement tax asset liability unrecognised asset m m m m m Accelerated tax depreciation 211 1,598 1,652 47 101 Intangible assets 405 84 2,036 16 1,936 Tax losses 4,879 34,061 6,109 27,952 Deferred tax on overseas earnings 18 67 67 Other temporary differences 101 2,294 124 276 1,894 31 March 2016 restated 4,180 38,037 3,879 6,416 27,742 Note: 1 Other unrecognised temporary differences include 178 million relating to Minimum Alternative Tax credits in India, of which 59 million expire within 05 years and 119 million expire beyond6 years.
At 31 March 2016 deferred tax assets and liabilities were analysed in the statement of financial position, after offset of balances within countries, as follows: m Deferred tax asset 28,306 Deferred tax liability 564 31 March 2016 restated 27,742 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 121 Factors affecting the tax charge in future years The Groups future tax charge, and effective tax rate, could be affected by several factors including: tax reform in countries around the world, including any arising from the implementation of the OECDs BEPS actions and European Commission initiatives such as the proposed anti tax avoidance directive, tax and financial reporting directive or as a consequence of state aid investigations, future corporate acquisitions and disposals, any restructuring of our businesses and the resolution of open tax issues see below.
We do not anticipate any significant impact on our future tax charge, liabilities or assets, as a result of the triggering of Article 50 2 of the Treaty on European Union but cannot rule out the possibility that, for example, a failure to reach satisfactory arrangements for the UKs future relationship with the European Union, could have an impact on such matters.
The Group is routinely subject to audit by tax authorities in the territories in which it operates and, specifically, in India where these are usually resolved through the Indian legal system.
The Group considers each issue on its merits and, where appropriate, holds provisions in respect of the potential tax liability that may arise.
However, the amount ultimately paid may differ materially from the amount accrued and could therefore affect the Groups overall profitability and cash flows in future periods.
See note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
At 31 March 2017, the gross amount and expiry dates of losses available for carry forward are as follows: Expiring Expiring within beyond 5 years 6 years Unlimited Total m m m m Losses or tax credits for which a deferred tax asset is recognised 292 65 97,335 97,692 Losses for which no deferred tax is recognised 352 1,503 28,556 30,411 644 1,568 125,891 128,103 At 31 March 2016, the gross amount and expiry dates of losses available for carry forward were as follows: Expiring Expiring within beyond 5 years 6 years Unlimited Total Restated Restated Restated Restated m m m m Losses for which a deferred tax asset is recognised 71 56 104,501 104,628 Losses for which no deferred tax is recognised 352 64 23,887 24,303 423 120 128,388 128,931 Deferred tax assets on losses in Luxembourg Included in the table above are losses of 82,634 million 2016: 81,176 million that have arisen in Luxembourg companies, principally as a result of revaluations of those companies investments for local GAAP purposes.
A deferred tax asset of 19,632 million 2016: 23,942 million has been recognised in respect of these losses, as we conclude it is probable that the Luxembourg entities will continue to generate taxable profits in the future against which we can utilise these losses.
In December 2016, the Luxembourg government enacted the previously announced reduction to the corporate tax rate including municipal business tax to 27.1% for the year ended 31 March 2017 and 26.0% for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The impact of this decreased corporate tax rate has reduced the value of our deferred tax asset by 2,651 million.
The Luxembourg companies income is derived from the Groups internal financing and procurement and roaming activities.
The Group has reviewed the latest forecasts for the Luxembourg companies, including their ability to continue to generate income beyond the forecast period under the tax laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The assessment also considered whether the structure of the Group would continue to allow the generation of taxable income.
Based on this the Group concludes that it is probable that the Luxembourg companies will continue to generate taxable income in the future.
Any future changes in tax law or the structure of the Group could have a significant effect on theuse of losses, including the period over which the losses can be utilised.
Based on the current forecasts the losses will be fully utilised over the next 55 to 60 years.
A 5%10% change in the forecast income in Luxembourg would change the period over which the losses will be fully utilised by four to seven years.
During the current year the Group recognised an additional 329 million 2016: used 3,037 million of our deferred tax assets as a result of the revaluation of investments based upon the local GAAP financial statements, and tax returns at 31 March 2017.
The Group also derecognised a deferred tax asset of 1,603 million related to losses in Luxembourg expected to be used beyond 60 years due to lower interest rates increasing the length of time over which these losses would be utilised.
Revaluation of investments for local GAAP purposes, which are based on the Groups value in use calculations, can give rise to impairments or the reversal of previous impairments.
These can result in a significant change to our deferred tax assets and the period over which these assets can be utilised.
993 million 2016: nil of the Groups Luxembourg losses expire, and no deferred tax asset is recognised as they will expire before we can use these losses.
The remaining losses do not expire.
We also have 9,132 million 2016: 9,132 million of Luxembourg losses in a former Cable & Wireless Worldwide Group company, for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised as it is uncertain whether these losses will be utilised.
122 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Taxation continued Deferred tax assets on losses in Germany The Group has tax losses of 18,139 million 2016: 18,461 million in Germany arising on the write down of investments in Germany in 2000.
The losses are available to use against both German federal and trade tax liabilities and they do not expire.
A deferred tax asset of 2,799 million 2016: 2,858 million has been recognised in respect of these losses as we conclude it is probable that the German business will continue to generate taxable profits in the future against which we can utilise these losses.
The Group has reviewed the latest forecasts for the German business which incorporate the unsystematic risks of operating in the telecommunications business see pages 28 to 34.
In the period beyond the five year forecast, we have reviewed the profits inherent in the value in use calculations, and based on these and our expectations for the German business we believe it is probable the German losses will be fully utilised.
Based on the current forecasts, the losses will be fully utilised over the next 10 to 12 years.
A 5%10% change in the forecast profits of the German business would not significantly alter the utilisation period.
Deferred tax assets on losses in Spain The Group has tax losses of 3,646 million in Spain, predominantly arising from the Groups acquisition of Grupo Corporative Ono S. A. in 2015. and which are available to offset against the related future profits of the Spanish business.
A deferred tax asset of 914 million 2016: 851 million has been recognised in respect of Onos losses as we conclude it is probable that the Spanish business will continue to generate taxable profits in the future against which we can utilise these losses.
The Group has reviewed the latest forecasts for the Spanish business which incorporate the unsystematic risks of operating in the telecommunications business see pages 28 to 34.
In the period beyond the five year forecast, we have reviewed the profits inherent in the value in use calculations, and based on these and our expectations for the Spanish business we believe it is probable the losses will be fully utilised.
Based on the current forecasts the losses will be fully utilised over the next 20 to 23 years.
The utilisation period has increased from the prior year reported period eight to ten years as a result of a change of law which limits the use of brought forward losses against current year profits.
A 5%10% change in the forecast profits of the Spanish business would change the period over which the losses are utilised by one to two years.
Other tax losses The Group has losses amounting to 7,880 million 2016: 8,504 million in respect of UK subsidiaries, which are only available for offset against future capital gains and since it is uncertain whether these losses will be utilised, no deferred tax asset has been recognised, in line with the prior year.
The remaining losses relate to a number of other jurisdictions across the Group.
There are also 108 million 2016: 486 million of unrecognised other temporary differences.
The Group holds a deferred tax liability of 95 million 2016: 67 million in respect of deferred taxation that would arise if temporary differences on investments in subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures were to be realised after the balance sheet date see table above.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of a further 20,237 million 2016: 22,562 million of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
It is not practicable to estimate the amount of unrecognised deferred tax liabilities in respect of these unremitted earnings.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 123 7.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale Following the agreement to combine our Indian operations with Idea Cellular into a jointly controlled company, in accordance with IFRS accounting standards, the results of Vodafone India are now included in discontinued operations.
The Group will continue to actively manage these operations until the transaction completes.
Discontinued operations On 20 March 2017, Vodafone announced the agreement to combine its subsidiary, Vodafone India excluding its 42% stake in Indus Towers, with Idea Cellular, which is listed on the Indian Stock Exchanges, with the combined company to be jointly controlled by Vodafone and the Aditya Birla Group.
The results of these discontinued operations are detailed below.
Income statement and segment analysis of discontinued operations Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Revenue 5,827 6,120 5,479 Cost of sales 4,504 4,799 4,327 Gross profit 1,323 1,321 1,152 Selling and distribution expenses 276 264 230 Administrative expenses 703 634 466 Impairment losses 4,515 Operating loss profit 4,171 423 456 Financing costs 909 932 758 Loss before taxation 5,080 509 302 1 Income tax credit expense 973 514 26 Loss profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 4,107 5 328 Loss earnings per share from discontinued operations Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 eurocents eurocents eurocents Basic 14.68 c 0.02c 1.24 c Diluted 14.68 c 0.02c 1.24 c Total comprehensive expense income for the financial year from discontinued operations Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Attributable to owners of the parent 4,107 5 328 Note: 1 Year ended 31 March 2015 includes 105 million income tax expense relating to Vodafone India, offset by 79 million tax credit relating to the performance of our discontinued US Group, whoseprincipal asset was its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, on 21 February 2014.
124 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 7.
Discontinued operations and assets held for sale continued Assets held for sale Assets and liabilities relating to our operations in India have been classed as held for sale on the statement of financial position at 31 March 2017.
In addition, assets and liabilities held for sale at 31 March 2016 comprise the assets and liabilities of our former operations in the Netherlands, which were combined with those of Liberty Global plc to form a 50:50 joint venture, VodafoneZiggo, on 31 December 2016.
The relevant assets and liabilities are detailed in the table below.
1 Assets and liabilities held for sale Restated 2017 2016 m m Non-current assets Goodwill 860 Other intangible assets 9,214 1,390 Plant, property and equipment 3,462 1,071 Trade and other receivables 694 35 Deferred tax assets 1,202 14,572 3,356 Current assets Inventory 1 31 Taxation recoverable 1,311 8 Trade and other receivables 831 244 Cash and cash equivalents 467 18 Other investments 13 2,623 301 Total assets held for sale 17,195 3,657 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 8,024 Deferred tax liabilities 8 Post employment benefits 15 Provisions for liabilities and charges 784 18 Trade and other payables 39 8,862 26 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 1,139 Provisions for liabilities and charges 25 5 Trade and other payables 1,768 407 2,932 412 Total liabilities held for sale 11,794 438 Note: 1 Total net debt in India at 31 March 2017 was 8,674 million.
This comprised cash of 467 million, licence payables classified as debt of 7,143 million and 2,020 million of other borrowings, together with 22 million of derivative financial instruments reported within Trade and other receivables and Trade and other payables.
499 million of the licence payables classified as debt have been paid in cash.
The cash payment is reported in the consolidated statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities.
Deferred tax assets on losses in India The Group recognises a deferred tax asset of 1,202 million relating to its Indian business.
This includes a deferred tax asset of 816 million relating to losses.
The deferred tax asset has been recognised as we conclude it is probable that we will generate taxable profits in the future, against which we can utilise these losses.
The Group has reviewed the latest forecasts for the Indian business which incorporate the unsystematic risks of operating in the telecommunications business see page 114.
In the period beyond the five year forecast, we have reviewed the profits inherent in the valuation of Indian business, and based on these and our expectations for the Indian business we believe it is probable the losses will be fully utilised.
Based on the current forecasts the losses will be fully utilised over the next ten years.
We do not recognise a deferred tax asset of 352 million in relation to losses where we currently believe that is not probable these losses will be utilised in the future.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 125 8.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is the amount of profit generated for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year.
2017 2016 2015 Millions Millions Millions Weighted average number of shares for basic earnings per share 27,971 26,692 26,489 Effect of dilutive potential shares: restricted shares and share options 140 Weighted average number of shares for diluted earnings per share 27,971 26,692 26,629 Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Loss earnings for earnings per share from continuing operations 2,190 5,410 7,607 Loss earnings for earnings per share from discontinued operations 4,107 5 328 Loss earnings for basic and diluted earnings per share 6,297 5,405 7,279 eurocents eurocents eurocents Basic loss earnings per share 22.51 c 20.25 c 27.48c Diluted loss earnings per share 22.51 c 20.25 c 27.33c 9.
Equity dividends Dividends are one type of shareholder return, historically paid to our shareholders in February and August.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Declared during the financial year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016: 7.77 pence per share 2015: 7.62 pence per share, 2014: 7.47 pence per share 2,447 2,852 2,495 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017: 4.74 eurocents per share 2016: 3.68 pence per share, 2015: 3.60 pence per share 1,262 1,381 1,217 3,709 4,233 3,712 Proposed after the end of the reporting period and not recognised as a liability: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017: 10.03 eurocents per share 2016: 7.77 pence per share, 2015: 7.62 pence per share 2,670 2,447 2,852 126 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 10.
Intangible assets Our statement of financial position contains significant intangible assets, mainly in relation to goodwill and licences and spectrum.
Goodwill, which arises when we acquire a business and pay a higher amount than the fair value of its net assets primarily due to the synergies we expect to create, is not amortised but is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Licences and spectrum are amortised over the life of the licence.
For further details see Critical accounting judgements in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Group controls the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the entity recognised at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually or whenever there is evidence that it may be required.
Goodwill is denominated in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing exchange rate at each reporting period date.
Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement.
On disposal of a subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, on 1 April 2004, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at that date.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Finite lived intangible assets Intangible assets with finite lives are stated at acquisition or development cost, less accumulated amortisation.
The amortisation period and method is reviewed at least annually.
Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates.
Licence and spectrum fees Amortisation periods for licence and spectrum fees are determined primarily by reference to the unexpired licence period, the conditions for licence renewal and whether licences are dependent on specific technologies.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives from the commencement of related network services.
Computer software Computer software comprises computer software purchased from third parties as well as the cost of internally developed software.
Computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.
Costs that are directly associated with the production of identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and are probable of producing future economic benefits, are recognised as intangible assets.
Direct costs of software development include employee costs and directly attributable overheads.
Software integral to an item of hardware equipment is classified as property, plant and equipment.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are recognised as an expense when they are incurred.
Internally developed software is recognised only if all of the following conditions are met: an asset is created that can be separately identified: it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits: and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life from the date the software is available for use.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets, including brands and customer bases, are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement, over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets from the date they are available for use, on a straight-line basis, with the exception of customer relationships which are amortised on a sum of digits basis.
The amortisation basis adopted for each class of intangible asset reflects the Groups consumption of the economic benefit from that asset.
2 Includes amortisation in relation to discontinued operations of 483 million.
For licences and spectrum and other intangible assets, amortisation is included within the cost of sales line within the consolidated income statement.
Licences and spectrum with a net book value of nil 2016: 1,422 million have been pledged as security against borrowings.
The net book value and expiry dates of the most significant licences are as follows: Restated 2017 2016 Expiry date m m Germany 2020 2025 2033 4,726 5,396 Italy 2018 2021 2029 1,442 1,596 UK 2023 2033 2,818 3,515 Qatar 2028 2029 1,164 1,191 Netherlands 2020 2029 2030 1,179 The remaining amortisation period for each of the licences in the table above corresponds to the expiry date of the respective licence.
A summary of the Groups most significant spectrum licences can be found on pages 202 and 203.
128 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
Property, plant and equipment We make significant investments in network equipment and infrastructure the base stations and technology required to operate our networks that form the majority of our tangible assets.
All assets are depreciated over their useful economic lives.
For further details on the estimation of useful economic lives, see Critical accounting judgements in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies Land and buildings held for use are stated in the statement of financial position at their cost, less any subsequent accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amounts for equipment, fixtures and fittings, which includes network infrastructure assets and which together comprise an all but insignificant amount of the Groups property, plant and equipment, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Assets in the course of construction are carried at cost, less any recognised impairment losses.
Depreciation of these assets commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and installation.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, using the straight-line method, over their estimated useful lives, as follows: Land and buildings Freehold buildings 2550 years Leasehold premises the term of the lease Equipment, fixtures and fittings Network infrastructure and other 135 years Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined as the difference between any sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
The net book value of land and buildings and equipment, fixtures and fittings includes 3 million and 608 million respectively 2016: 34 million and 749 million in relation to assets held under finance leases.
Included in the net book value of land and buildings and equipment, fixtures and fittings are assets in the course of construction, which are not depreciated, with a cost of 10 million and 1,234 million respectively 2016: 33 million and 1,931 million.
130 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Investments in associates and joint arrangements We hold interests in an associate in Kenya, where we have significant influence, as well as in a number of joint arrangements in the UK, the Netherlands, India and Australia, where we share control with one or more third parties.
Accounting policies Interests in joint arrangements A joint arrangement is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control: that is, when the relevant activities that significantly affect the investees returns require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint arrangements are either joint operations or joint ventures.
Gains or losses resulting from the contribution or sale of a subsidiary as part of the formation of a joint arrangement are recognised in respect of the Groups entire equity holding in the subsidiary.
Joint operations A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement or that other facts and circumstances indicate that this is the case.
The Groups share of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and cash flows are combined with the equivalent items in the financial statements on a line-by-line basis.
Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of the Groups interest in a jointly controlled entity is accounted for in accordance with the Groups accounting policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of a subsidiary.
Joint ventures A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control have the rights to the net assets of the arrangement.
At the date of acquisition, any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint venture is recognised as goodwill.
The goodwill is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
The results and assets and liabilities of joint ventures are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
The Groups share of post-tax profits or losses are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in that joint venture are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but where the Group does not have control or joint control over those policies.
At the date of acquisition, any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the associate is recognised as goodwill.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost as adjusted for postacquisition changes in the Groups share of the net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in that associate are recognised only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the associate.
Joint operations The Companys principal joint operation has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and is indirectly held, and principally operates in the UK.
The financial and operating activities of the operation are jointly controlled by the participating shareholders and are primarily designed for all but an insignificant amount of the output to be consumed by the shareholders.
Country of 1 incorporation or Percentage Name of joint operation Principal activity registration shareholdings Cornerstone Telecommunications Infrastructure Limited Network infrastructure UK 50.0 Note: 1 Effective ownership percentages of Vodafone Group Plc at 31 March 2017 rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 131 Joint ventures and associates 1 Restated 2017 2016 m m Investment in joint ventures 2,689 29 Investment in associates 449 450 31 March 3,138 479 Note: 1 The Group reclassified 580 million from goodwill to investments in associates and joint ventures relating to Indus Towers within the consolidated statement of financial position.
Comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Joint ventures The financial and operating activities of the Groups joint ventures are jointly controlled by the participating shareholders.
The participating shareholders have rights to the net assets of the joint ventures though their equity shareholdings.
Unless otherwise stated, the Companys principal joint ventures all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and are all indirectly held.
The country of incorporation or registration of all joint ventures is also their principal place of operation.
Country of 1 incorporation or Percentage Name of joint venture Principal activity registration shareholdings VodafoneZiggo Group Holding B. V. Network operator Netherlands 50.0 2 Indus Towers Limited Network infrastructure India 42.0 3 Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited Network operator Australia 50.0 Notes: 1 Effective ownership percentages of Vodafone Group Plc at 31 March 2017 rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
2 42% of Indus Towers Limited is held by Vodafone India Limited VIL.
3 Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited has a year end of 31 December.
The following table provides aggregated financial information for the Groups joint ventures as it relates to the amounts recognised in the income statement, statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position.
Loss profit from Other comprehensive Total comprehensive Investment in joint ventures continuing operations income expense income Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m m m m m VodafoneZiggo Group Holding B. V. 2,736 160 2 158 Indus Towers Limited 1,032 982 997 98 101 23 98 101 23 Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty Limited 1,156 1,032 923 59 153 204 1 2 59 154 202 Other 77 79 124 14 39 12 14 39 12 Total 2,689 29 198 135 91 193 2 1 2 133 92 191 The summarised financial information for each of the Groups material equity accounted joint ventures on a 100% ownership basis is set out below.
VodafoneZiggo Group Vodafone Hutchison Holding B. V. Indus Towers Limited Australia Pty Limited Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m m Income statement and statement of comprehensive income Revenue 1,014 2,379 2,277 2,018 2,287 2,354 2,343 Depreciation and amortisation 764 407 489 518 473 517 528 Interest income 23 22 10 36 3 2 2 Interest expense 117 91 86 95 240 268 291 Income tax income expense 105 267 186 233 Loss profit from continuing operations 320 234 240 56 117 306 408 Other comprehensive income expense 3 2 4 Total comprehensive expense income 317 234 240 56 117 308 404 Statement of financial position Non-current assets 20,303 1,995 1,890 2,317 2,680 Current assets 721 326 302 892 500 Non-current liabilities 14,015 545 656 1,460 3,277 Current liabilities 1,538 825 584 4,301 2,194 Equity shareholders funds 5,471 951 952 2,552 2,291 Cash and cash equivalents within current assets 273 29 46 68 156 Non-current liabilities excluding trade and other payables andprovisions 13,668 188 380 1,435 3,203 Current liabilities excluding trade and other payables and provisions 375 216 3563 1,456 The Group received a dividend in the year to 31 March 2017 of 126 million 2016: nil: 2015: 166 million from Indus Towers Limited.
132 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Investments in associates and joint arrangements continued Associates Unless otherwise stated, the Companys principal associates all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and are all indirectly held.
The country of incorporation or registration of all associates is also their principal place of operation.
Country of 1 incorporation or Percentage Name of associate Principal activity registration shareholdings 2,3 Safaricom Limited Network operator Kenya 40.0 Notes: 1 Effective ownership percentages of Vodafone Group Plc at 31 March 2017 rounded to the nearest tenth of one percent.
2 The Group also holds two non-voting shares.
3 At 31 March 2017 the fair value of Safaricom Limited was KES 288 billion 2,613 million based on the closing quoted share price on the Nairobi Stock Exchange.
The following table provides aggregated financial information for the Groups associates as it relates to the amounts recognised in the income statement, statement of comprehensive income and consolidated statement of financial position.
Profit from Other comprehensive Total comprehensive Investment in associates continuing operations expense income Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 2015 m m m m m m m m m m m m Total 449 450 454 182 151 113 182 151 113 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 133 13.
Other investments We hold a number of other listed and unlisted investments, mainly comprising US$2.5 billion of loan notes from Verizon Communications Inc. Accounting policies Other investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, including transaction costs.
Other investments classified as held for trading and available-for-sale are stated at fair value.
Where securities are held for trading purposes, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in net profit or loss for the period.
For available-for-sale investments, gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, until the security is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity, determined using the weighted average cost method, is included in the net profit or loss for the period.
Other investments classified as loans and receivables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within non-current assets: Equity securities: Listed 3 3 Unlisted 82 104 Debt securities: Public debt and bonds 120 Other debt and bonds 3,374 4,404 3,459 4,631 The listed and unlisted securities are classified as available-for-sale.
Public debt and bonds are classified as held for trading, and other debt and bonds which are not quoted in an active market, are classified as loans and receivables.
Unlisted equity investments are recorded at fair value where appropriate.
Other debt and bonds includes loan notes of US$2.5 billion 2,343 million, 2016: US$5.0 billion 4,403 million issued by Verizon Communications Inc. as part of the Groups disposal of its interest in Verizon Wireless all of which is recorded within non-current assets and 1.0 billion issued by VodafoneZiggo Holding B. V. The carrying amount of these loan notes approximates fair value.
Current other investments comprise the following: Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within current assets: Debt securities: Public debt and bonds 2,284 1,123 Other debt and bonds 2,727 3,214 Cash and other investments held in restricted deposits 1,109 1,.
000 6,120 5,337 Public debt and bonds are classified as held for trading and stated at fair value.
Cash held in restricted deposits is classified as loans and receivables and includes amounts held in qualifying assets by Group insurance companies to meet regulatory requirements.
Other debt and bonds includes 2,039 million 2016: 1,223 million of assets held for trading in managed investment funds with liquidity of up to 90days: 506 million 2016: 1,991 million of assets held at amortised cost on an effective interest method paid as collateral on derivative financial instruments and 182 million 2016: nil short-term investments in a fund where the underlying assets are supply chain receivables.
Current public debt and bonds include highly liquid UK government bonds held for trading of 1,638 million 2016: 833 million comprised of gilts 1,172 million 2016: nil paid as collateral primarily on derivative financial instruments and index-linked gilts 466 million 2016: 833 million.
For public debt and bonds, other debt and bonds and cash held in restricted deposits, the carrying amount approximates fair value.
134 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 14.
Inventory Our inventory primarily consists of mobile handsets and is presented net of an allowance for obsolete products.
Accounting policies Inventory is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the basis of weighted average costs and comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Goods held for resale 576 716 Inventory is reported net of allowances for obsolescence, an analysis of which is as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m 1 April 125 102 Exchange movements 3 9 Amounts credited debited to the income statement 7 32 31 March 115 125 Cost of sales includes amounts related to inventory of 6,464 million 2016: 7,379 million: 2015: 7,251 million.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 135 15.
Trade and other receivables Our trade and other receivables mainly consist of amounts owed to us by customers and amounts that we pay to our suppliers in advance.
Trade receivables are shown net of an allowance for bad or doubtful debts.
Derivative financial instruments with a positive market value are reported within this note.
Accounting policies Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Estimated irrecoverable amounts are based on the ageing of the receivable balances and historical experience.
Individual trade receivables are written off when management deems them not to be collectible.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within non-current assets: Trade receivables 362 471 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 27 122 Other receivables 130 623 Prepayments 378 163 Derivative financial instruments 3,672 4,414 4,569 5,793 Included within current assets: Trade receivables 4,973 5,566 Amounts owed by associates and joint ventures 325 219 Other receivables 918 1,207 Prepayments 1,197 1,315 Accrued income 1,838 2,225 Derivative financial instruments 610 1,029 9,861 11,561 The Groups trade receivables are stated after allowances for bad and doubtful debts based on managements assessment of creditworthiness, an analysis of which is asfollows: Restated 2017 2016 m m 1 April 1,385 1,110 Reclassification as held for sale 66 Exchange movements 94 141 Amounts charged to administrative expenses 589 679 Other 396 263 31 March 1,418 1,385 The carrying amounts of trade and other receivables approximate their fair value and are predominantly non-interest bearing.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are calculated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest rates and foreign currency rates prevailing at 31 March.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within derivative financial instruments: Fair value through the income statement held for trading : Interest rate swaps 2,248 2,564 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 126 298 Options 12 46 Foreign exchange contracts 103 292 2,489 3,200 Designated hedge relationships: Interest rate swaps 212 486 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 1,581 1,757 4,282 5,443 136 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other payables Our trade and other payables mainly consist of amounts we owe to our suppliers that have been invoiced or are accrued.
They also include taxes and social security amounts due in relation to our role as an employer.
Derivative financial instruments with a negative market value are reported within this note.
Accounting policies Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within non-current liabilities: Other payables 30 123 Accruals 154 183 Deferred income 204 165 Derivative financial instruments 1,349 1,428 1,737 1,899 Included within current liabilities: Trade payables 6,212 7,420 Amounts owed to associates and joint ventures 14 67 Other taxes and social security payable 1,261 1,315 Other payables 1,220 961 Accruals 5,683 7,616 Deferred income 1,716 1,967 Derivative financial instruments 728 550 16,834 19,896 The carrying amounts of trade and other payables approximate their fair value.
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are calculated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values using appropriate market interest and foreign currency rates prevailing at 31 March.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Included within derivative financial instruments: Fair value through the income statement held for trading : Interest rate swaps 553 1,119 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 944 439 Options 63 81 Foreign exchange contracts 76 75 1,636 1,714 Designated hedge relationships Interest rate swaps 61 28 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 380 236 2,077 1,978 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 137 17.
Provisions A provision is a liability recorded in the statement of financial position, where there is uncertainty over the timing or amount that will be paid, and is therefore often estimated.
The main provisions we hold are in relation to asset retirement obligations, which include the cost of returning network infrastructure sites to their original condition at the end of the lease, and claims for legal and regulatory matters.
Accounting policies Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Asset retirement obligations In the course of the Groups activities, a number of sites and other assets are utilised which are expected to have costs associated with decommissioning.
The associated cash outflows are substantially expected to occur at the dates of exit of the assets to which they relate, whicharelong term in nature, primarily in periods up to 25 years from when the asset is brought into use.
Legal and regulatory The Group is involved in a number of legal and other disputes, including notifications of possible claims.
The Directors of the Company, after taking legal advice, have established provisions after taking into account the facts of each case.
The timing of cash outflows associated with the majority of legal claims are typically less than one year, however, for some legal claims the timing of cash flows may be long term in nature.
For a discussion of certain legal issues potentially affecting the Group see note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
Other provisions Other provisions comprises various provisions including those for restructuring costs and property.
The associated cash outflows for restructuring costs are primarily less than one year.
The timing of the cash flows associated with property is dependent upon the remaining term of the associated lease.
Asset retirement Legal and obligations regulatory Other Total m m m m 1 April 2015 restated 645 1,154 759 2,558 Exchange movements 26 88 27 141 Amounts capitalised in the year 40 40 Amounts charged to the income statement 231 518 749 Utilised in the year payments 50 81 352 483 Amounts released to the income statement 20 75 101 196 Transfer of liabilities held for sale 18 1 3 22 Other 75 3 72 31 March 2016 restated 571 1,215 791 2,577 Transfer of liabilities held for sale 10 642 652 Exchange movements 17 32 1 50 Amounts capitalised in the year 157 157 Amounts charged to the income statement 148 643 791 Utilised in the year payments 51 40 376 467 Amounts released to the income statement 44 56 117 217 Other 41 1 40 31 March 2017 606 634 939 2,179 138 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Provisions continued Provisions have been analysed between current and non-current as follows: 31 March 2017 Asset retirement Legal and obligations regulatory Other Total m m m m Current liabilities 10 300 739 1,049 Non-current liabilities 596 334 200 1,130 606 634 939 2,179 31 March 2016 restated Asset retirement Legal and obligations regulatory Other Total m m m m Current liabilities 16 306 636 958 Non-current liabilities 555 909 155 1,619 571 1,215 791 2,577 18.
Called up share capital Called up share capital is the number of shares in issue at their par value.
A number of shares were allotted during the year in relation to employee share schemes.
Accounting policies Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the amount of the proceeds received, net of direct issuance costs.
The market value of shares held was 5,348 million 2016: 6,308 million.
Duringthe year 62,761,357 2016: 45,923,317 treasury shares were reissued under Group share schemes.
Allotted during the year Nominal Net value proceeds Number m m UK share awards and option scheme awards US share awards and option scheme awards 746,840 2 Total share awards and option scheme awards 746,840 2 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 139 19.
Reconciliation of net cash flow from operating activities The table below shows how our profit for the year from continuing operations translates into cash flows generated from our operating activities.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 Notes m m m Loss profit for the financial year 6,079 5,122 7,477 Loss profit from discontinued operations 7 4,107 5 328 Loss profit for the financial year from continuing operations 1,972 5,127 7,805 Non-operating expense 1 3 23 Investment income 474 539 1,083 Financing costs 1,406 2,046 1,399 Income tax expense credit 6 4,764 4,937 6,071 Operating profit 3,725 1,320 2,073 Adjustments for: Share-based payments 27 95 154 104 Depreciation and amortisation 10, 11 11,086 11,697 11,108 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3 22 27 93 Share of result of equity accounted associates and joint ventures 12 47 60 78 Impairment losses 4 569 Other income expense 1,052 286 146 Decrease increase in inventory 14 117 144 76 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 15 308 684 151 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 16 473 332 1,334 Cash generated by operations 13,781 13,497 12,041 Net tax paid 761 807 533 Cash flows from discontinued operations 1,203 1,646 1,160 Net cash flow from operating activities 14,223 14,336 12,668 20.
Cash and cash equivalents The majority of the Groups cash is held in bank deposits, money market funds or in repurchase agreements which have a maturity of three months or less to enable us to meet our short-term liquidity requirements.
Accounting policies Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and call deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Restated 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1,856 2,196 Money market funds and bank deposits 6,979 7,311 Repurchase agreements 3,415 Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of financial position 8,835 12,922 Bank overdrafts 11 Cash and cash equivalents of discontinued operations 467 Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows 9,302 12,911 Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group on a short-term basis with all having an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount approximates their fair value.
Cash and cash equivalents of 1,132 million 2016: 1,624 million are held in countries with restrictions on remittances but where the balances could be used to repay subsidiaries third party liabilities.
140 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings The Groups sources of borrowing for funding and liquidity purposes come from a range of committed bank facilities and through short-term and long-term issuances in the capital markets including bond and commercial paper issues and bank loans.
We manage the basis on which we incur interest on debt between fixed interest rates and floating interest rates depending on market conditions using interest rate derivatives.
The Group enters into foreign exchange contracts to mitigate the impact of exchange rate movements on certain monetary items.
Accounting policies Capital market and bank borrowings Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially measured at fair value which is equal to cost at inception, and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, except where they are identified as a hedged item in a designated hedge relationship.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the amount due on settlement or redemption of borrowings is recognised over the term of the borrowing.
Where bonds issued with certain conversion rights are identified as compound instruments they are initially measured at fair value with the nominal amounts recognised as a component in equity and the fair value of future coupons included in borrowings.
These are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Carrying value and fair value information Restated 2017 2016 Short-term Long-term Short-term Long-term borrowings borrowings Total borrowings borrowings Total m m m m m m Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Bank loans 867 2,741 3,608 2,851 8,799 11,650 Bank overdrafts 11 11 Commercial paper 3,648 3,648 9,353 9,353 Bonds 660 19,345 20,005 521 14,275 14,796 1,2 Other liabilities 4,632 305 4,937 5,474 297 5,771 Bonds in designated hedge relationships 2,244 12,132 14,376 2,050 13,718 15,768 12,051 34,523 46,574 20,260 37,089 57,349 Notes: 1 At 31 March 2017 amount includes 2,654 million 2016: 3,588 million in relation to collateral support agreements.
2 Includes a 1.8 billion 2016: 1.8 billion liability for payments due to holders of the equity shares in Kabel Deutschland AG under the terms of a domination and profit and loss transfer agreement.
Amount also includes 46 million 2016: 34 million and 34 million 2016: 87 million in short and long-term borrowings respectively in relation to the debt component of the mandatory convertible bonds maturing on 25 August 2017 and 25 February 2019.
These are compound instruments with nominal values recorded in equity.
The initial fair value of future coupons is recognised as debt and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Bank loans at 31 March 2016 include INR629 billion 8 billion of loans held by Vodafone India Limited VIL and its subsidiaries the VIL Group.
Each of the eight legal entities within the VILGroup provide cross guarantees to the lenders in respect of debt contracted by the other entities.
See note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale for further details.
The fair value and carrying value of the Groups short-term borrowings are as follows: Euro equivalentnominal value Fair value Carrying value Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m 1 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 9,163 17,374 9,180 17,700 9,147 17,689 Bonds: 647 500 667 505 660 521 4.75% euro 500 million bond due June 2016 500 505 521 5.375% sterling 600 million bond due December 2017 647 667 660 Bonds in designated hedge relationships: 2,244 2,021 2,241 2,070 2,244 2,050 5.625% US dollar 1,300 million bond due February 2017 1,142 1,188 1,172 1.625% US dollar 1,000 million bond due March 2017 879 882 878 1.25% US dollar 1,000 million bond due September 2017 935 934 934 1.5% US dollar 1,400 million bond due February 2018 1,309 1,307 1,310 Short-term borrowings 12,054 19,895 12,088 20,275 12,051 20,260 Note: 1 Amounts for 2017 include 46 million in relation to the shortterm debt component of the mandatory convertible bonds.
142 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued Fair values of bonds and financial liabilities measured at amortised cost are based on Level 1 and 2 of the fair value hierarchy respectively, using quoted market prices or discounted cash flows with a discount rate based upon forward interest rates available to the Group at the reporting date.
Further information can be found in note 23 Capital and financial risk management.
The Groups gross and net debt includes certain bonds which have been designated in hedge relationships, which are carried at 2.0 billion 2016: 2.1 billion higher than their euro equivalent redemption value.
In addition, where bonds are issued in currencies other than euros, the Group has entered into foreign currency swaps to fix the euro cash outflows on redemption.
The impact of these swaps are not reflected in gross debt and would further reduce the euro equivalent redemption value of the bonds by 0.9 billion 2016: 1.2 billion.
Maturity of borrowings and other financial liabilities The maturity profile of the anticipated future cash flows including interest in relation to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities on an undiscounted basis which, therefore, differs from both the carrying value and fair value, is as follows: Loans in Bank Commercial Other designated hedge loans paper Bonds liabilities relationships Total m m m m m m Within one year 909 3,660 1,810 4,606 3,142 14,127 In one to two years 1,168 2,650 21 1,527 5,366 In two to three years 721 2,080 56 366 3,223 In three to four years 569 2,369 22 1,522 4,482 In four to five years 3,010 24 1,253 4,287 In more than five years 350 12,029 203 11,548 24,130 3,717 3,660 23,948 4,932 19,358 55,615 Effect of discount financing rates 109 12 3,943 5 4,982 9,041 31 March 2017 3,608 3,648 20,005 4,937 14,376 46,574 Within one year 3,091 9,365 889 5,486 1,649 20,480 In one to two years 1,590 1,124 72 3,525 6,311 In two to three years 2,022 3,391 54 868 6,335 In three to four years 1,640 228 18 1,486 3,372 In four to five years 1,399 3,539 19 797 5,754 In more than five years 5,964 7,356 178 12,319 25,817 15,706 9,365 16,527 5,827 20,644 68,069 Effect of discount financing rates 4,057 11 1,731 46 4,875 10,720 31 March 2016 restated 11,649 9,354 14,796 5,781 15,769 57,349 The maturity profile of the Groups financial derivatives which include interest rate swaps, cross-currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps using undiscounted cash flows, is as follows: Restated 2017 2016 Payable Receivable Payable Receivable m m m m Within one year 16,541 16,462 32,870 34,035 In one to two years 4,788 5,201 10,660 10,918 In two to three years 3,000 3,141 4,815 5,244 In three to four years 1,913 2,038 2,641 2,988 In four to five years 1,567 1,706 2,419 2,592 In more than five years 18,743 22,491 23,841 26,429 46,552 51,039 77,246 82,206 Payables and receivables are stated separately in the table above as settlement is on a gross basis.
The net effect of discount financing rates is 2,282 million 2016: 1,495 million, leaving a 2,205 million 2016: 3,465 million net receivable in relation to financial instruments.
This is split 2,077 million 2016: 1,978 million within trade and other payables and 4,282 million 2016: 5,443 million within trade and other receivables.
Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity on cross-currency interest rate swaps as at 31 March 2017 will be continuously released to the income statement within financing costs until the repayment of certain bonds classified as loans designated in hedge relationships in the table of maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities above.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 143 The currency split of the Groups foreign exchange derivatives which includes cross-currency interest rate swaps and foreign exchange swaps is as follows: Restated 2017 2016 Payable Receivable Payable Receivable m m m m Sterling 1,176 6,576 22,625 18,026 Euro 23,167 5,556 14,762 24,496 US dollar 4,246 19,482 9,799 12,872 Japanese yen 851 Other 5,420 4,813 6,814 1,005 34,009 36,427 54,851 56,399 Payables and receivables are stated separately in the table above as settlement is on a gross basis.
The net effect of discount financing rates is 2,008 million 2016: 51 million, leaving a 410 million 2016: 1,599 million net receivable in relation to foreign exchange financial instruments.
This is split 1,400 million 2016: 750 million within trade and other payables and 1,810 million 2016: 2,349 million within trade and other receivables.
The present value of minimum lease payments under finance lease arrangements under which the Group has leased certain of its equipment is included within other liabilities and is analysed as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m Within one year 68 15 In two to five years 78 63 In more than five years 160 138 306 216 Interest rate and currency of borrowings is as follows: Total Floating rate Fixed rate Other 1 2 borrowings borrowings borrowings borrowings Currency m m m m Sterling 4,552 5 4,547 Euro 37,420 7,517 28,009 1,894 US dollar 4,449 4,172 277 Other 153 13 140 31 March 2017 46,574 11,707 32,973 1,894 Sterling 3,528 114 3,257 157 Euro 37,814 14,697 21,309 1,808 US dollar 7,122 6,883 239 Other 8,885 3,011 5,874 31 March 2016 restated 57,349 24,705 30,679 1,965 Notes: 1 The weighted average interest rate for the Groups sterling denominated fixed rate borrowings is 2.5% 2016: 4.6%.
The weighted average time for which these rates are fixed is 16.6 years 2016: 6.4 years.
The weighted average interest rate for the Groups euro denominated fixed rate borrowings is 2.1% 2016: 2.7%.
The weighted average time for which the rates are fixed is 8.4years 2016: 6.5 years.
The weighted average interest rate for the Groups US dollar denominated fixed rate borrowings is 0.2% 2016: 3.6%.
The weighted average time for which the ratesare fixed is 0.1 years 2016: 2.0 years.
The weighted average interest rate for the Groups other currency fixed rate borrowings is 8.5% 2016: 9.4%.
The weighted average time for which therates are fixed is 12.0 years 2016: 6.8 years.
2 At 31 March 2017 other borrowings of 1.9 billion 2016: 2.0 billion include a 1.8 billion 2016: 1.8 billion liability for payments due to holders of the equity shares in Kabel DeutschlandAG under the terms of a domination and profit and loss transfer agreement.
The figures shown in the tables above take into account cross-currency and interest rate swaps used tomanage the currency and interest rate profile of financial liabilities.
Interest on floating rate borrowings is generally based on national LIBOR equivalents or government bond rates in the relevant currencies.
Additional protection from euro interest rate movements is provided by fixing interest rates or reducing floating interest rates 1 using interest rate swaps or interest rate futures.
Restated 2017 2016 Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate Interest rate futures swaps futures swaps m m m m Within one year 291 3,125 3,734 2,145 In one to two years 3,000 3,414 1,920 In two to three years 8,875 2,033 1,807 In three to four years 1,000 7,114 In four to five years 3,125 1,807 2 In more than five years 3,300 3,049 Notes: 1 In the table above, figures shown as positive indicate an increase in fixed interest debt and figures shown in brackets indicate a reduction in fixed interest debt.
2 Figures shown as in more than five years relate to the periods from March 2026 to March 2047 2016: March 2021 to March 2022.
144 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Borrowings continued Borrowing facilities Committed facilities expiry Restated 2017 2016 Drawn Undrawn Drawn Undrawn m m m m Within one year 460 1,666 2,297 In one to two years 855 878 11 In two to three years 551 502 1,228 9 In three to four years 502 3,861 874 291 In four to five years 568 3,678 837 7,405 In more than five years 380 770 354 31 March 3,316 8,041 6,253 10,367 At 31 March 2017 the Groups most significant committed facilities comprised two revolving credit facilities which remained undrawn throughout the year of US$4.0 billion 3.8 billion maturing in three to four years and US$4.1 billion 3.8 billion maturing in three to five years.
Under the terms of these bank facilities, lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitment 30 days from the date of notification of a change of control of the Company and have outstanding advances repaid on the last day of the current interest period.
The facility agreements provide for certain structural changes, that do not affect the obligations of the Company, to be specifically excluded from the definition of a change of control.
This is in addition to the rights of lenders to cancel their commitment if the Company has committed an event of default.
The terms and conditions of the Groups drawn facilities obtained in relation to projects in its Italian, German, Turkish, United Kingdom and Romanian operations of 2.0 billion in aggregate are similar to those of the US dollar and euro revolving credit facilities.
Further information on these facilities can be found in note 22 Liquidity and capital resources.
Liquidity and capital resources This section includes an analysis of net debt, which we use to manage capital, and committed borrowing facilities.
Net debt Net debt was 31.2 billion at 31 March 2017 and includes liabilities for amounts payable under the domination agreement in relation to Kabel Deutschland AG 1.8 billion.
This decreased by 5.7 billion in the year primarily as a result of the classification of Vodafone India as discontinued operations.
Further information can be found in note 7 Discontinued operations and assets held for sale.
Net debt represented 44% of our market capitalisation at 31 March 2017 compared to 46% at 31 March 2016.
Average net debt at month end accounting dates over the 12-month period ended 31 March 2017 was 33.0 billion and ranged between net debt of 29.9 billion and 37.9 billion.
Our consolidated net debt position at 31 March was as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 8,835 12,922 Short-term borrowings Bonds 2,904 2,571 1 Commercial paper 3,648 9,353 2 Put options over non-controlling interests 1,837 1,809 Bank loans 867 2,851 3 Other short-term borrowings 2,795 3,676 12,051 20,260 Long-term borrowings Put options over non-controlling interests 6 4 Bonds, loans and other long-term borrowings 34,523 37,083 34,523 37,089 5 Other financial instruments 6,570 7,512 Net debt 31,169 36,915 Notes: 1 At 31 March 2017 US$1,484 million was drawn under the US commercial paper programme and 2,262 million were drawn under the euro commercial paper programme.
3 At 31 March 2017 the amount includes 2,654 million 2016: 3,588 million in relation to cash received under collateral support agreements.
Amount also includes 46 million 2016: 63 million in relation to the short-term debt component of the mandatory convertible bonds maturing on 25 August 2017 and 25 February 2019.
4 At 31 March 2017 the amount includes 34 million 2016: 87 million in relation to the long-term debt component of the mandatory convertible bonds maturing on 25 February 2019.
5 Comprises mark-to-market adjustments on derivative financial instruments which are included as a component of trade and other receivables 4,282 million 2016: 5,443 million and trade and other payables 2,077 million 2016: 1,978 million.
Amount also includes 4,365 million 2016: 4,048 million comprised of short-term investments primarily in index-linked government bonds and managed investment funds included as a component of other investments and collateral passed in relation to derivative financial instruments including put options issued with regards to the mandatory convertible bonds hedging arrangements.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 145 At 31 March 2017 we had 8,835 million of cash and cash equivalents which are held in accordance with the counterparty and settlement risk limits of the Board approved treasurypolicy.
The main forms of liquid investment at 31 March 2017 were managed investment funds, money market funds, UK index-linked government bonds and bankdeposits.
The cash received from collateral support agreements mainly reflects the value of our interest rate swap and cross-currency interest rate swap portfolios which are substantially netpresent value positive.
See note 23 Capital and financial risk management for further details on these agreements.
Commercial paper programmes We currently have US and euro commercial paper programmes of US$15 billion and 8 billion respectively which are available to be used to meet short-term liquidity requirements.
At 31 March 2017 amounts external to the Group of 2,262 million were drawn under the euro commercial paper programme and US$1,484 million 1,386 million were drawn down under the US commercial paper programme, with such funds being provided by counterparties external to the Group.
At 31 March 2016 amounts external to the Group of 8,907 million and US$38million 33 million were drawn under the euro commercial paper programme and US$471 million 413 million were drawn down under the US commercial paper programme, with such funds being provided by counterparties external to the Group.
The commercial paper facilities were supported by US$4.1 billion 3.8 billion and 4.0 billion of syndicated committed bank facilities seeCommitted facilities below.
No amounts had been drawn under either bank facility.
Bonds We have a 30 billion euro medium-term note programme and a US shelf programme which are used to meet medium to long-term funding requirements.
At 31 March 2017 the total amounts in issue under these programmes split by currency were US$12.3 billion, 15.1 billion, 4.2 billion, CHF0.7 billion and NOK1.7 billion.
At 31 March 2017 we had bonds outstanding with a nominal value of 32.3 billion.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 bonds with a nominal value equivalent of 6.0 billion were issued under the euro medium-term note programme.
The bonds issued in the year were: Nominal amount Euro equivalent Date of bond issue Maturity of bond Programme Currency Millions m 6 March 2017 22 November 2021 EMTN Euro 1,000 1,000 30 September 2016 30 January 2024 EMTN Euro 750 750 3 June 2016 3 December 2024 EMTN Swiss franc 350 327 1 March 2017 1 March 2027 EMTN Norwegian krona 850 93 15 March 2017 15 March 2027 EMTN Swiss franc 175 164 29 July 2016 29 July 2031 EMTN Euro 1,000 1,000 19 September 2016 19 September 2031 EMTN Swiss franc 150 140 9 August 2016 9 August 2046 EMTN US dollar 45 42 9 March 2017 9 March 2047 EMTN US dollar 370 346 8 August 2016 9 August 2049 EMTN Pound sterling 800 938 12 August 2016 12 August 2056 EMTN Pound sterling 1,000 1,172 On 25 February 2016 the Group issued 2.9 billion 3.5 billion of subordinated mandatory convertible bonds issued in two tranches, with the first 1.4 billion 1.7 billion maturing on 25 August 2017 and a further 1.4 billion 1.7 billion maturing on 25 February 2019 with coupons of 1.5% and 2.0% respectively.
At the initial conversion price adjusted for dividends declared during the year, of 2.0546, at maturity the bond will convert to 1,401,732,698 Vodafone Group Plc shares representing approximately 5% of Vodafones share capital.
The mandatory bonds are compound instruments with nominal values of 2.8 billion 3.5 billion recognised as a component of shareholders funds in equity.
The fair value of future coupons of 0.1 billion 0.1 billion is recognised as a financial liability in borrowings and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Refer to the consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 101.
The Group has hedged its exposure under the subordinated mandatory convertible bonds to any future movements in its share price by an option strategy designed to hedge the economic impact of share price movements during the term of the bonds.
Should the Group decide to buy back ordinary shares to mitigate the dilution resulting from the conversion, the hedging strategy will provide a hedge for the repurchase price.
Own shares The Group held a maximum of 2,254,825,696 of its own shares during the year which represented 8.0% of issued share capital at that time.
146 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Liquidity and capital resources continued Committed facilities In aggregate we have committed facilities of approximately 11,357 million, of which 8,041 million was undrawn and 3,316 million was drawn at 31 March 2017.
The following table summarises the committed bank facilities available to us at 31 March 2017.
Committed bank facilities Amounts drawn Terms and conditions 28 March 2014 4.0 billion syndicated No drawings have been made against Lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their revolvingcredit facility, this facility.
The facility supports our commitments and have outstanding advances repaid no sooner than maturing 28 March 2021. commercial paper programmes and 30 days after notification of a change of control.
This is in addition to may be used for general corporate the rights of lenders to cancel their commitment if we commit an event purposes including acquisitions.
of default: however, it should be noted that a material adverse change clause does not apply.
The facility matures on 28 March 2021.
From March 2020 the facility size will be 3.9 billion as one lender did not extend the facility as per the request from the Company.
27 February 2015 US$4.1 billion syndicated No drawings have been made against Lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their revolving credit facility, this facility.
The facility supports our commitments and have outstanding advances repaid no sooner than maturing 27 February 2022. commercial paper programmes and 30 days after notification of a change of control.
The facility matures on 27 February 2022.
From March 2020 the facility size will be US$3.9 billion as one lender did not extend the facility as per the request from the Company.
27 November 2013 0.5 billion loan facility, This facility was drawn down in full in As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that, maturing 12 December 2021. euro, as allowed by the terms of the should our UK and Irish operating companies spend less than the facility, on 12 December 2014. equivalent of 0.9 billion on capital expenditure, we will be required to repay the drawn amount of the facility that exceeds 50% of the capitalexpenditure.
15 September 2009 0.4 billion loan facility, This facility was drawn down in full on As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that, maturing 30 July 2017.
30 July 2010. should our German operating company spend less than the equivalent of 0.8 billion on VDSL related capital expenditure, we will be required to repay the drawn amount of the facility that exceeds 50% of the VDSL capital expenditure.
29 September 2009 US$0.1 billion export credit This facility is fully drawn down and As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that the agency loan facility, final isamortising.
Company was permitted to draw down under the facility based upon the maturity date 19 September eligible spend with Ericsson up until the final draw down date of 30 June 2018.
Quarterly repayments of the drawn balance commenced on 30 June 2012 with a final maturity date of 19 September 2018.
8 December 2011 0.4 billion loan facility, This facility was drawn down in full on As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that, maturing on 5 June 2020.
5 June 2013. should our Italian operating company spend less than the equivalent of 1.3 billion on capital expenditure, we will be required to repay the drawn amount of the facility that exceeds 50% of the capital expenditure.
20 December 2011 0.3 billion loan facility, This facility was drawn down in full on As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that, maturing 1 September 2019.
18 September 2012. should our Turkish and Romanian operating companies spend less than the equivalent of 1.3 billion on capital expenditure, we will be required 4 March 2013 to repay the drawn amount of the facility that exceeds 50% of the 0.1 billion loan facility, This facility was drawn down in full on capitalexpenditure.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 147 Committed bank facilities Amounts drawn Terms and conditions 2 December 2014 US$0.8 billion loan facility, US$0.8 billion was drawn from the As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that maturing 2 June 2018. facility on 8 June 2015.
The remaining the expenditure should be spent on projects involving Canadian US$0.05 billion was cancelled on the domiciledentities.
17 December 2014 0.35 billion loan facility, This facility is fully drawn down on As per the syndicated revolving credit facilities with the addition that, maturing on 16 June 2023.
16 June 2016. should our German operating company spend less than the equivalent of 0.7billion on capital expenditure, we will be required to repay the drawn amount of the facility that exceeds 50% of the capital expenditure.
Furthermore, certain of our subsidiaries are funded by external facilities which are non-recourse to any member of the Group other than the borrower.
These facilities may only be used to fund their operations.
At 31 March 2017 Vodafone Egypt had a fully drawn term loan of US$53 million 50 million and undrawn revolving credit facilities of EGP4 billion 207 million.
Vodacom had fully drawn facilities of US$112 million 105 million and facilities of ZAR0.48 billion 33.3 million of which ZAR0.47 billion 32.8 million was drawn.
Vodafone Ghana had fully drawn facilities of US$142 million 133 million and GHS60 million 13 million.
Dividends from associates and to non-controlling shareholders Dividends from our associates are generally paid at the discretion of the Board of Directors or shareholders of the individual operating and holding companies, and we have no rights to receive dividends except where specified within certain of the Groups shareholders agreements.
Similarly, other than ongoing dividend obligations to the KDG minority shareholders should they continue to hold their minority stake, we do not have existing obligations under shareholders agreements to pay dividends to non-controlling interest partners of our subsidiaries or joint ventures.
The amount of dividends received and paid in the year are disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Potential cash outflows from option agreements and similar arrangements Under the terms of the sale and purchase agreement governing the disposal of the US Group, including the 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, the Group retains the responsibility for any tax liabilities of the US Group, excluding those relating to the Verizon Wireless partnership, for periods up to the completion of the transaction on 21 February 2014.
Put options issued as part of the hedging strategy for the mandatory convertible bonds permit the holders to exercise against the Group if there is a decrease in our share price.
Under the terms of the options, settlement must be made in cash which will equate to the reduced value of shares from the initial conversion price, adjusted for dividends declared during the year, on 1,402 million shares.
Sale of trade receivables During the year the Group sold certain trade receivables to a financial institution.
Whilst there are no repurchase obligations in respect of these receivables, the Group provided a credit guarantee which would only become payable if default rates were significantly higher than historical rates.
The credit guarantee is not considered substantive and substantially all risks and rewards associated with the receivables passed to the purchaser at the date of sale, therefore the receivables were derecognised.
The maximum payable under the guarantees at 31 March 2017 was 360 million.
No provision has been made in respect of these guarantees as the likelihood of a cash outflow has been assessed as remote.
148 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Capital and financial risk management This note details our treasury management and financial risk management objectives and policies, as well as theexposure and sensitivity of the Group to credit, liquidity, interest and foreign exchange risk, and the policies inplace to monitor and manage these risks.
Accounting policies Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities, in respect of financial instruments, are recognised on the Groups statement of financial position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial liabilities and equity instruments Financial liabilities and equity instruments issued by the Group are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity instrument.
An equity instrument is any contract that provides a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities and includes no obligation to deliver cash or other financial assets.
The accounting policies adopted for specific financial liabilities and equity instruments are set out below.
Put option arrangements over non-controlling interest The potential cash payments related to put options issued by the Group over the equity of subsidiary companies are accounted for as financial liabilities when such options may only be settled by exchange of a fixed amount of cash or another financial asset for a fixed number of shares in the subsidiary.
The amount that may become payable under the option on exercise is initially recognised at present value within borrowings with a corresponding charge directly to equity.
The charge to equity is recognised separately as written put options over non-controlling interests, adjacent to noncontrolling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries.
The Group recognises the cost of writing such put options, determined as the excess of the present value of the option over any consideration received, as a financing cost.
Such options are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method, in order to accrete the liability up to the amount payable under the option at the date at which it first becomes exercisable: the charge arising is recorded as a financing cost.
In the event thatthe option expires unexercised, the liability is derecognised with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates which it manages using derivative financial instruments.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Groups policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives consistent with the Groups risk management strategy.
Changes in values of all derivatives of a financing nature are included within investment income and financing costs in the income statement unless designated in an effective cash flow hedge relationship or a hedge of a net investment in foreign operations when changes in value are deferred to other comprehensive income or equity respectively.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The Group designates certain derivatives as: hedges of the change of fair value of recognised assets and liabilities fair value hedges : or hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency or interest rate risks of firm commitments cash flow hedges : or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting, or if the Company chooses to end the hedging relationship.
Fair value hedges The Groups policy is to use derivative instruments primarily interest rate swaps to convert a proportion of its fixed rate debt to floating rates in order to hedge the interest rate risk arising, principally, from capital market borrowings.
The Group designates these as fair value hedges of interest rate risk with changes in fair value of the hedging instrument recognised in the income statement for the period together with the changes in the fair value of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk, to the extent the hedge is effective.
Gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Cash flow hedges Cash flow hedging is used by the Group to hedge certain exposures to variability in future cash flows.
The portion of gains or losses relating to changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as effective cash flow hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income: gains or losses relating to any ineffective portion are recognised immediately in the income statement.
When the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity for the hedging instrument are reclassified to the income statement.
However, when the hedged transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 149 When hedge accounting is discontinued, any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time remains in equity and is recognised in the income statement when the hedged transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Net investment hedges Exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are recognised directly in equity.
Gains and losses on those hedging instruments which include bonds, commercial paper, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange contracts designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations are recognised in equity to the extent that the hedging relationship is effective: these amounts are included in exchange differences on translation of foreign operations as stated in the statement of comprehensive income.
Gains and losses relating to hedge ineffectiveness are recognised immediately in the income statement for the period.
Gains and losses accumulated in the translation reserve are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
Capital management The following table summarises the capital of the Group at 31 March: Restated 2017 2016 m m Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 8,835 12,922 Fair value through the income statement held for trading 6,169 5,261 Loans and receivables 685 1,986 Derivative instruments in designated hedge relationships 1,793 2,243 Financial liabilities: Fair value through the income statements held for trading 1,636 1,714 Derivative instruments in designated hedge relationships 441 264 Financial liabilities held at amortised cost 46,574 57,349 Net debt 31,169 36,915 Equity 73,719 85,136 Capital 104,888 122,051 The Groups policy is to borrow centrally using a mixture of long-term and short-term capital market issues and borrowing facilities to meet anticipated funding requirements.
These borrowings, together with cash generated from operations, are loaned internally or contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
The Board has approved three internal debt protection ratios being: net interest to operating cash flow plus dividends from associates : retained cash flow operating cash flow plus dividends from associates less interest, tax, dividends to non-controlling shareholders and equity dividends to net debt: and operating cash flow plus dividends from associates to net debt.
These internal ratios establish levels of debt that the Group should not exceed other than for relatively short periods of time and are shared with the Groups debt rating agencies being Moodys, FitchRatings and Standard & Poors.
Financial risk management The Groups treasury function manages centrally the Groups funding requirement, net foreign exchange exposure, interest rate management exposures and counterpart risk arising from investments and derivatives.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of policies and guidelines authorised and reviewed by the Board, most recently on 3 November 2015.
A treasury risk committee comprising of the Groups Chief Financial Officer, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Group Financial Controller, Group Treasury Director and Director of Financial Reporting meets three times a year to review treasury activities and its members receive management information relating to treasury activities on a quarterly basis.
The Groups accounting function, which does not report to the Group Treasury Director, provides regular update reports of treasury activity to the Board.
The Groups internal auditor reviews the internal control environment regularly.
The Group uses a number of derivative instruments for currency and interest rate risk management purposes only that are transacted by specialist treasury personnel.
The Group mitigates banking sector credit risk by the use of collateral support agreements.
Credit risk The Group considers its exposure to credit risk at 31 March to be as follows: Restated 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 1,856 2,196 Repurchase agreements 3,415 Cash held in restricted deposits 1,109 1,000 UK government bonds 466 833 Money market fund investments and bank deposits 6,979 7,311 Derivative financial instruments 4,282 5,443 Other investments debt and bonds 7,919 8,027 Trade receivables 5,335 6,037 Other receivables and accrued income 2,886 4,055 30,832 38,317 150 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Capital and financial risk management continued The Group invested in UK index-linked government bonds on the basis that they generated a floating rate return in excess of LIBOR and are amongst the most creditworthy of investments available.
The Group has two managed investment funds.
These funds hold fixed income euro securities and the average credit quality is high double A.
Money market investments are in accordance with established internal treasury policies which dictate that an investments long-term credit rating is no lower than mid BBB.
Additionally, the Group invests in AAA unsecured money market mutual funds where the investment is limited to 10% of each fund.
The Group also invests in a fund where the underlying assets are supply chain receivables, the creditworthiness of which are enhanced by an insurance wrapper as provided by established insurance companies with a long-term credit rating of at least A-.
The Group invests in repurchase agreements which are fully collateralised investments.
The collateral is sovereign and supranational debt with at least one AAA rating denominated in euros, sterling and US dollars and can be readily converted to cash.
In the event of any default, ownership of the collateral would revert to the Group.
Detailed below is the value of the collateral held by the Group at 31 March: Restated 2017 2016 m m Sovereign 3,415 Supranational 3,415 In respect of financial instruments used by the Groups treasury function, the aggregate credit risk the Group may have with one counterparty is limited by i reference to the long-term credit ratings assigned for that counterparty by Moodys, Fitch Ratings and Standard & Poors: ii that counterpartys five year credit default swap CDS spread: and iii the sovereign credit rating of that counterpartys principal operating jurisdiction.
Furthermore, collateral support agreements were introduced from the fourth quarter of 2008.
Under collateral support agreements the Groups exposure to a counterparty with whom a collateral support agreement is in place is reduced to the extent that the counterparty must post cash collateral when there is value due to the Group under outstanding derivative contracts that exceeds a contractually agreed threshold amount.
When value is due to the counterparty the Group is required to post collateral on identical terms.
Such cash collateral is adjusted daily as necessary.
In the event of any default, ownership of the cash collateral would revert to the respective holder at that point.
Detailed below is the value of the cash collateral, which is reported within short-term borrowings, held by the Group at 31 March: Restated 2017 2016 m m Cash collateral 2,654 3,588 The majority of the Groups trade receivables are due for maturity within 90 days and largely comprise amounts receivable from consumers and business customers.
At 31 March 2017 3,322 million 2016: 4,082 million of trade receivables were not yet due for payment.
Overduetrade receivables consisted of 789 million 2016: 1,636 million relating to the Europe region, and 423 million 2016: 318 million relating to the AMAP region.
Financial statements are monitored by management and provisions for bad and doubtful debts raised where it is deemed appropriate.
The following table presents ageing of receivables that are past due and provisions for doubtful receivables that have been established: Restated 2017 2016 Gross Less Net Gross Less Net receivables provisions receivables receivables provisions receivables m m m m m m 30 days or less 730 27 703 919 344 575 Between 31 and 60 days 125 23 102 330 87 243 Between 61 and 180 days 648 258 390 498 113 385 Greater than 180 days 1,423 1,077 346 1,401 650 751 2,926 1,385 1,541 3,148 1,194 1,954 Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited given that the Groups customer base is large and unrelated.
Due to this, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful receivables.
Amounts charged to administrative expenses duringthe year ended 31 March 2017 were 589 million 2016: 679 million seenote 15 Trade and other receivables.
As discussed in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings, the Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the trustee of the Vodafone Group UK Pension Scheme in respect of the funding deficit in the scheme.
The security takes the form of an English law pledge over UK index-linked government bonds.
Liquidity risk At 31 March 2017 the Group had 4.0 billion and US$4.1 billion syndicated committed undrawn bank facilities which support the US$15 billion and 8.0 billion commercial paper programme available to the Group.
The Group uses commercial paper and bank facilities to manage short-term liquidity and manages long-term liquidity by raising funds in the capital markets.
The euro syndicated committed facility has a maturity date of 28 March 2021.
The US$ syndicated committed facility has a maturity date of 27 February 2022.
Both facilities have remained undrawn throughout thefinancial year and since year end and provide liquidity support.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 151 The Group manages liquidity risk on long-term borrowings by maintaining a varied maturity profile with a cap on the level of debt maturity in any one calendar year, therefore minimising refinancing risk.
Long-term borrowings mature between one and 39 years.
Liquidity is reviewed daily on at least a 12 month rolling basis and stress tested on the assumption that all commercial paper outstanding matures and is not reissued.
The Group maintains substantial cash and cash equivalents which at 31 March 2017 amounted to 8,835 million 2016: 12,922 million.
Market risk Interest rate management Under the Groups interest rate management policy, interest rates on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in euros, US dollars and sterling are maintained on a floating rate basis except for periods up to six years where interest rate fixing has to be undertaken in accordance with treasury policy.
The policy also allows euros, US dollars and sterling to be moved to a fixed rate basis if interest rates are statistically low.
Where assets and liabilities are denominated in other currencies interest rates may also be fixed.
In addition, fixing is undertaken for longer periods when interest rates are statistically low.
For each one hundred basis point rise in market interest rates for all currencies in which the Group had borrowings at 31 March 2017 there would be an increase in profit before tax by approximately 470 million 2016: approximately 29 million including mark-to-market revaluations of interest rate and other derivatives and the potential interest on outstanding tax issues.
There would be no material impact on equity.
At 31 March 2017 other than USD denominated liabilities, which are retained in order to hedge foreign exchange movements arising from our investment in VZ Communication loan notes, substantially all of our outstanding liabilities are held on a fixed interest rate basis in accordance with treasury policy.
Foreign exchange management As Vodafones primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange its share price is quoted in sterling.
Since the sterling share price represents the value of its future multi-currency cash flows, principally in euro, South African rand and sterling, the Group maintains the currency of debt and interest charges in proportion to its expected future principal cash flows and has a policy to hedge external foreign exchange risks on transactions denominated in other currencies above certain fide minimis level.
At 31 March 2017 19% of net debt was denominated in currencies other than euro 8% US dollar, 5% South African rand and 6% other.
This allows US dollar, South African rand and other debt to be serviced in proportion to expected future cash flows and therefore provides a partial hedge against income statement translation exposure, as interest costs will be denominated in foreign currencies.
Under the Groups foreign exchange management policy, foreign exchange transaction exposure in Group companies is generally maintained at the lower of 5 million per currency per month or 15 million per currency over a six month period.
The Group recognises foreign exchange movements in equity for the translation of net investment hedging instruments and balances treated as investments in foreign operations.
However, there is no net impact on equity for exchange rate movements on net investment hedging instruments as there would be an offset in the currency translation of the foreign operation.
At 31 March 2017 the Group held financial liabilities in a net investment against the Groups South African rand.
Sensitivity to foreign exchange movements on the hedging liabilities, analysed against a strengthening of the South African rand by 18% would result in a decrease in equity of 493 million which would be fully offset by foreign exchange movements on the hedged net assets.
At 31 March 2016 the Group held financial liabilities in a net investment against the Groups consolidated euro net assets.
Subsequent to the change in the Companys functional currency and the Groups presentation currency fromsterling to euro with effect from 1 April 2017, the Groups primary foreign exchange exposure is to South African rand 2016: euro.
The following table details the Groups sensitivity of the Groups adjusted operating profit to a strengthening of the Groups major currency in which it transacts.
The percentage movement applied to the currency is based on the average movements in the previous three annual reporting periods.
Amounts are calculated by retranslating the operating profit of each entity whose functional is South African rand.
Restated 2017 2016 m m 1 ZAR 18% change 2016: 20% Operating profit 249 251 1,2 Euro no change 2016: 8% Operating profit 138 Notes: 1 Operating profit before impairment losses and other income and expense.
2 The Group is predominantly exposed to South African rand following the change in the functional currency from sterling to euro.
At 31 March 2017 the Groups sensitivity to foreign exchange movements, analysed against a strengthening of the US dollar by 11% 2016: 8% on its external US dollar exposure, would decrease the profit before tax by 100 million 2016: 76 million.
Foreign exchange on certain sterling balances analysed against a 10% strengthening of sterling would decrease the profit before tax by 262 million 2016: nil.
Equity risk There is no material equity risk relating to the Groups equity investments which are detailed in note 13 Other investments.
As at 31 March 2017 the Groups sensitivity to a movement of 7% 2016: 5% in its share price would result in an increase or decrease in profit before tax of approximately 236 million 2016: 182 million.
152 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Capital and financial risk management continued Fair value of financial instruments 1 The table below sets out the valuation basis of financial instruments held at fair value by the Group at 31 March.
2 3 Level 1 Level 2 Total Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Financial assets: Fair value through the income statement 4,323 2,466 4,323 2,466 Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 2,460 3,049 2,460 3,050 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 1,707 2,056 1,707 2,055 Options 12 46 12 46 Foreign exchange contracts 103 292 103 292 Interest rate futures 3 5 3 5 8,608 7,914 8,608 7,914 Financial investments available-for-sale: 4 Listed equity securities 3 3 3 3 4 Unlisted equity securities 82 104 82 104 3 3 82 104 85 107 3 3 8,690 8,018 8,693 8,021 Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps 614 1,147 614 1,147 Cross-currency interest rate swaps 1,324 675 1,324 675 Options 63 81 63 81 Foreign exchange contracts 76 75 76 75 2,077 1,978 2,077 1,978 Notes: 1 There were no changes made during the year to valuation methods or the processes to determine classification and no transfers were made between the levels in the fair value hierarchy.
2 Level 1 classification comprises financial instruments where fair value is determined by unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
3 Level 2 classification comprises items where fair value is determined from inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Derivative financial instrument fair values are present values determined from future cash flows discounted at rates derived from market sourced data.
4 Listed and unlisted securities are classified as held for sale financial assets and fair values are derived from observable quoted market prices for similar items.
Details are included in note 13 Other investments.
Fair value and carrying value information 1 The fair values and carrying values of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities held at amortised cost are set out in the table below.
Unless otherwise stated, the valuation basis is Level 2, comprising financial instruments where fair value is determined from inputs other than quoted prices observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of bonds are based on Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy, using unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
The carrying amounts of both categories approximate their fair values.
2 Cash and cash equivalents are held by the Group on a short-term basis with all having a maturity of three months or less.
The carrying value approximates their fair value.
3 Other debt and bonds is predominantly comprised of loan notes from Verizon Communications Inc. see note 13 Other investments, collateral paid on derivative financial instruments and short term investments in funds where the underlying assets are supply chain receivables.
4 The Groups bonds are held at amortised cost with fair values available from market observable prices.
5 Commercial paper and other bank loans are held at amortised cost with fair values calculated from market observable data where appropriate.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 153 Net financial instruments The table below shows the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are subject to offset in the balance sheet and the impact of enforceable master netting or similar agreements.
Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet At 31 March 2017 Amounts Right of set off presented in with derivative Gross amount Amount set off balance sheet counterparties Cash collateral Net amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 4,282 4,282 1,505 2,654 123 Derivative financial liabilities 2,077 2,077 1,505 384 188 Total 2,205 2,205 2,270 65 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet At 31 March 2016 restated Amounts Right of set off presented in with derivative Gross amount Amount set off balance sheet counterparties Cash collateral Net amount m m m m m m Derivative financial assets 5,443 5,443 1,538 3,588 317 Derivative financial liabilities 1,978 1,978 1,538 139 301 Total 3,465 3,465 3,449 16 Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the amount reported in the consolidated balance sheet when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Derivative financial instruments that do not meet the criteria for offset could be settled net in certain circumstances under ISDA International Swaps and Derivatives Association agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default from the other.
Collateral may be offset and net settled against derivative financial instruments in the event of default by either party.
The aforementioned collateral balances are recorded in other short-term investments or short-term debt respectively.
Directors and key management compensation This note details the total amounts earned by the Companys Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
Directors Aggregate emoluments of the Directors of the Company were as follows: Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Salaries and fees 4 5 5 1 Incentive schemes 2 4 4 2 Other benefits 1 1 1 7 10 10 Notes: 1 Excludes gains from long-term incentive plans.
2 Includes the value of the cash allowance taken by some individuals in lieu of pension contributions.
The aggregate gross pre-tax gain made on the exercise of share options in the year ended 31 March 2017 by one Director who served during the year was 0.7 million 2016: one Director, 0.2 million: 2015: one Director, 0.1 million.
Key management compensation Aggregate compensation for key management, being the Directors and members of the Executive Committee, was as follows: Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Short-term employee benefits 24 30 23 Share-based payments 25 26 23 49 56 46 154 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Employees This note shows the average number of people employed by the Group during the year, in which areas of our business our employees work and where they are based.
It also shows total employment costs.
Post employment benefits We operate a number of defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans for our employees.
The Groups largest defined benefit scheme is in the UK.
For further details see Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 1 Basis of preparation to the consolidated financial statements.
Accounting policies For defined benefit retirement plans, the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the present value of the plan liabilities is recognised as an asset or liability on the statement of financial position.
Scheme liabilities are assessed using the projected unit funding method and applying the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting period date.
Assets are valued at market value.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to the statement of comprehensive income as incurred.
For this purpose, actuarial gains and losses comprise both the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments arising because of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred.
The return on plan assets, in excess of interest income, is also taken to other comprehensive income.
Other movements in the net surplus or deficit are recognised in the income statement, including the current service cost, any past service cost and the effect of any settlements.
The interest cost less the expected interest income on assets is also charged to the income statement.
The amount charged to the income statement in respect of these plans is included within operating costs or in the Groups share of the results of equity accounted operations, as appropriate.
Cumulative actuarial gains and losses at 1 April 2004, the date of transition to IFRS, were recognised in the statement of financial position.
The Group contributions to defined contribution pension plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
Background At 31 March 2017 the Group operated a number of pension plans for the benefit of its employees throughout the world, with varying rights and obligations depending on the conditions and practices in the countries concerned.
The Groups pension plans are provided through both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
Defined benefit schemes provide benefits based on the employees length of pensionable service and their final pensionable salary or other criteria.
Defined contribution schemes offer employees individual funds that are converted into benefits at the time of retirement.
The Group operates defined benefit schemes in Germany, Ghana, India, Ireland, Italy, the UK and the United States.
Defined contribution pension schemes are currently provided in Australia, Egypt, Germany, Greece, Hungary, India, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, SouthAfrica, Spain and the UK.
Income statement expense Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Defined contribution schemes 192 214 190 Defined benefit schemes 20 56 49 Total amount charged to income statement note 25 212 270 239 156 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Post employment benefits continued Defined benefit schemes Vodafone Groups retirement policy is to provide competitive pension provision, in each operating country, in line with the market median for that location.
Vodafone Groups preferred retirement provision is focused on Defined Contribution DC arrangements and or State provision for future service.
The Groups main defined benefit funding liability is the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone UK plan.
Since June 2014 the plan has consisted of two segregated sections the Vodafone Section and the Cable & Wireless Section.
Both sections are closed to new entrants and to future accrual.
The Group also operates unfunded plans in Germany and funded plans in Ireland.
Defined benefit pension provision exposes the Group to actuarial risks such as longer than expected longevity of participants, lower than expected return on investments and higher than expected inflation, which may increase the liabilities or reduce the value of assets of the schemes.
The defined benefit schemes are administered by Trustee Boards who are legally separate from the Group and consist of representatives who are employees, former employees or are independent from the Company.
The Boards of the pension schemes are required by legislation to act in the best interest of the participants, set the investment strategy and contribution rates and are subject to statutory funding objectives.
The Vodafone UK plan is registered as an occupational pension plan with HMRC and is subject to UK legislation and operates within the framework outlined by the Pensions Regulator.
UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently and that valuations are undertaken at least every three years.
Separate valuations are required for the Vodafone Section and CWW Section.
Within 15 months of each valuation date, the plan trustees and the Group must agree any contributions required to ensure that the plan is fully funded over time on a suitably prudent measure.
The publication by the International Accounting Standards Board in June 2015 of its Exposure Draft of amendments to IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, has provided additional clarity on the role of trustees rights in an assessment of the recoverability of a surplus in an employee pension fund.
The trustees of the Vodafone UK plan have neither a unilateral right to wind up the plan nor a unilateral right to improve members benefits.
The trustees obtain regular actuarial valuations to check whether the statutory funding objective is met and whether a recovery plan is required to restore funding to the level of the agreed technical provisions.
The previous valuations for the Vodafone and CWW Sections of the Vodafone UK plan were carried out as at 31 March 2013 resulting in the Group paying a special one-off contributions totalling 365 million 442 million in April 2014 325 million 394 million into the Vodafone Section and 40 million 48 million into the CWW Section.
No further contributions were due in respect of the deficit revealed at the 2013 valuation.
The most recent triennial actuarial valuation is currently being undertaken by independent actuaries appointed by the plan trustees, with an effective date of 31 March 2016.
The preliminary results indicate that due to falls in government bond yields since the 2013 valuation, it is likely that additional deficit payments will be required.
The valuation results and recovery plan are currently being agreed by the trustees and the Company.
Funding plans are individually agreed for each of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes with the respective trustees, taking into account local regulatory requirements.
It is expected that ordinary contributions relating to future service of 133 million will be paid into the Groups defined benefit pension schemes during the year ending 31 March 2018.
The Group has also provided certain guarantees in respect of the Vodafone UK plan: further details are provided in note 30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings to the consolidated financial statements.
Actuarial assumptions The Groups scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit method using the principal actuarial assumptions set out below: 2017 2016 2015 % % % 1 Weighted average actuarial assumptions used at 31 March : 2 Rate of inflation 3.0 2.8 3.0 Rate of increase in salaries 2.6 2.6 2.8 Discount rate 2.6 3.2 3.0 Notes: 1 Figures shown represent a weighted average assumption of the individual schemes.
2 The rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred payment is the rate of inflation.
Mortality assumptions used are based on recommendations from the individual scheme actuaries which include adjustments for the experience of the Group where appropriate.
The Groups largest scheme is the Vodafone UK plan.
Further life expectancies assumed for the UK schemes are 24.1 25.4 years 2016: 24.0 25.3 years: 2015: 24.5 25.8 years for a male female pensioner currently aged 65 and 26.7 28.3 years 2016: 65 and 26.6 28.1years: 2015: 27.1 28.7 years from age 65 for a male female non-pensioner member currently aged 40.
Charges made to the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of comprehensive income SOCI on the basis of the assumptions stated above are: Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Current service cost 43 45 45 Past service costs 27 Net interest charge 4 11 4 Total included within staff costs 20 56 49 1 Actuarial losses gains recognised in the SOCI 274 216 369 Note: 1 Amounts disclosed in the SOCI are stated net of a 2 million tax credit 2016: 42 million tax charge: 2015: 78 million tax credit.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 157 The past service costs includes the results of a Pension Increase Exchange PIE exercise carried out in the main UK defined benefit scheme between June and October 2016.
All eligible pensioners were given the opportunity to exchange future increases on part or all of their pension and receive a higher pension immediately.
If they accepted the offer after taking financial advice, they no longer receive future increases on that part of their pension, the net impact of which was to reduce the future liabilities of the scheme.
Fair value of the assets and present value of the liabilities of the schemes The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit schemes is as follows: Assets Liabilities Net deficit m m m 1 April 2015 restated 6,857 7,407 550 Service cost 49 49 Interest income cost 203 214 11 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 206 206 Actuarial gains arising from demographic assumptions 96 96 Actuarial gains arising from changes in financial assumptions 381 381 Actuarial losses arising from experience adjustments 55 55 Employer cash contributions 37 37 Member cash contributions 10 10 Benefits paid 161 161 Exchange rate movements 505 502 3 Other movements 6 25 19 31 March 2016 restated 6,229 6,570 341 Reclassification as held for sale 12 12 6,229 6,558 329 Service cost 16 16 Interest income cost 190 194 4 Return on plan assets excluding interest income 818 818 Actuarial losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 1,204 1,204 Actuarial gains arising from experience adjustments 112 112 Employer cash contributions 24 24 Member cash contributions 8 8 Benefits paid 180 180 Exchange rate movements 403 403 Other movements 23 50 27 31 March 2017 6,709 7,303 594 An analysis of net deficit assets is provided below for the Group as a whole.
Restated Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Analysis of net deficit: Total fair value of scheme assets 6,709 6,229 6,857 4,652 4,413 Present value of funded schemeliabilities 7,222 6,487 7,316 5,237 5,024 Net deficit for funded schemes 513 258 459 585 611 Present value of unfunded scheme liabilities 81 83 91 80 14 Net deficit 594 341 550 665 625 Net deficit is analysed as: 1 Assets 57 224 234 42 62 Liabilities 651 565 784 707 687 Note: 1 Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as future economic benefits are available to the Company either in the form of future refunds or, for plans still open to benefit accrual, in the form of possible reductions in future contributions.
158 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Post employment benefits continued An analysis of net assets deficit is provided below for the Groups largest defined benefit pension scheme in the UK, which is a funded scheme.
Following the merger of the Vodafone UK plan and the CWWRP plan on 6 June 2014 the assets and liabilities of the CWW Section are segregated from the Vodafone Section and hence are reported separately below.
2 Vodafone UK plan until 6 June 2014.
3 Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as future economic benefits are available to the Company either in the form of future refunds or, for plans still open to benefit accrual, in the form of possible reductions in future contributions.
Duration of the benefit obligations The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at 31 March 2017 is 22.9 years 2016: 22.3 years: 2015: 22.7 years.
Fair value of pension assets Restated 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 104 110 Equity investments: With quoted prices in an active market 1,938 1,881 Without quoted prices in an active market 413 199 Debt instruments: With quoted prices in an active market 3,982 3,474 Without quoted prices in an active market 461 Property: With quoted prices in an active market 30 10 Without quoted prices in an active market 78 19 1 Derivatives: With quoted prices in an active market 1,218 369 Without quoted prices in an active market 1 Investment fund 299 292 Annuity policies Without quoted prices in an active market 623 613 Total 6,709 6,229 Note: 1 Derivatives include collateral held in the form of cash.
The schemes have no direct investments in the Groups equity securities or in property currently used by the Group.
Each of the plans manages risks through a variety of methods and strategies including equity protection, to limit downside risk in falls in equity markets, inflation and interest rate hedging and, in the CWW Section of the Vodafone UK plan, a substantial insured pensioner annuity policy.
The CWW Section annuity policy fully matches the pension obligations of those pensioners insured, and therefore the fair value has been set equal to the present value of the related obligations.
Investment funds of 299 million at 31 March 2017 include 278 million of investments in diversified alternate beta funds held in the Vodafone Section of the Vodafone UK plan.
Plan assets have been measured at fair value in accordance with IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The actual return on plan assets over the year to 31 March 2017 was a gain of 1,008 million 2016: 3 million loss.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 159 Sensitivity analysis Measurement of the Groups defined benefit retirement obligation is sensitive to changes in certain key assumptions.
The sensitivity analysis below shows how a reasonably possible increase or decrease in a particular assumption would, in isolation, result in an increase or decrease in the present value of the defined benefit obligation as at 31 March 2017.
Rate of inflation Rate of increase in salaries Discount rate Life expectancy Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 0.5% Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 0.5% Increase by 1 year Decrease by 1 year m m m m m m m m Decrease increase in present value of defined obligation 585 666 4 4 868 741 199 199 The sensitivity analysis may not be representative of an actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another.
In presenting this sensitivity analysis, the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated on the same basis as prior years using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognised in the statement of financial position.
Share-based payments We have a number of share plans used to award shares to Directors and employees as part of their remuneration package.
A charge is recognised over the vesting period in the consolidated income statement to record the cost of these, based on the fair value of the award on the grant date.
Accounting policies The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and adjusted for the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
A corresponding increase in retained earnings is also recognised.
Some share awards have an attached market condition, based on total shareholder return TSR, which is taken into account when calculating thefair value of the share awards.
The valuation for the TSR is based on Vodafones ranking within the same group of companies, where possible, over the past five years.
The fair value of awards of non-vested shares is an average calculation of the closing price of the Groups shares on the days prior to the grant date, adjusted for the present value of the delay in receiving dividends where appropriate.
The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which may be issued in respect of share options or share plans will not without shareholder approval exceed: 10% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to the date of grant, when aggregated with the total number of ordinary shares which have been allocated in the preceding ten year period under all plans: and 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to the date of grant, when aggregated with the total number of ordinary shares which have been allocated in the preceding ten year period under all plans, other than any plans which are operated on an all-employee basis.
Share options Vodafone Group executive plans No share options have been granted to any Directors or employees under the Companys discretionary share option plans in the year ended 31 March 2017.
There are options outstanding under the Vodafone Global Incentive Plan.
These options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant.
The vesting of some of these options was subject to satisfaction of performance conditions.
Grants made to US employees are made in respect of American Depositary Shares ADS.
Vodafone Group Sharesave Plan The Vodafone Group 2008 Sharesave Plan enables UK staff to acquire shares in the Company through monthly savings of up to 375 increased from 250 over a three and or five year period, at the end of which they may also receive a tax-free bonus.
The savings and bonus may then be used to purchase shares at the option price, which is set at the beginning of the invitation period and usually at a discount of 20% to the then prevailing market price of the Companys shares.
Share plans Vodafone Group executive plans Under the Vodafone Global Incentive Plan awards of shares are granted to Directors and certain employees.
The release of these shares is conditional upon continued employment and for some awards achievement of certain performance targets measured over a three year period.
Vodafone Share Incentive Plan The Vodafone Share Incentive Plan enables UK staff to acquire shares in the Company through monthly purchases of up to 125 per month or 5% of salary, whichever is lower.
For each share purchased by the employee, the Company provides a free matching share.
Following a review of the UK all-employee plans it was decided that with effect from 1 April 2017 employees would no longer be able to contribute to the Share Incentive Plan and would therefore no longer receive matching shares.
160 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based payments continued Movements in outstanding ordinary share options Ordinary share options 2017 2016 2015 Millions Millions Millions 1 April 24 25 27 Granted during the year 31 7 7 Forfeited during the year 1 1 2 Exercised during the year 7 5 6 Expired during the year 6 2 1 31 March 41 24 25 Weighted average exercise price: 1 April 1.62 1.49 1.42 Granted during the year 1.61 1.89 1.56 Forfeited during the year 1.66 1.54 1.45 Exercised during the year 1.50 1.42 1.25 Expired during the year 1.75 1.59 1.45 31 March 1.61 1.62 1.49 Summary of options outstanding and exercisable at 31 March 2017 Outstanding Exercisable Weighted Weighted average average Weighted remaining Weighted remaining Outstanding average contractual Exercisable average contractual shares exercise life shares exercise life Millions price Months Millions price Months Vodafone Group savings related and Sharesave Plan: 1.01 2.00 41 1.61 27 Share awards Movements in non-vested shares are as follows: 2017 2016 2015 Weighted Weighted Weighted average fair average fair average fair value at value at value at Millions grant date Millions grant date Millions grant date 1 April 198 1.77 217 1.56 243 1.44 Granted 74 1.97 63 2.22 83 1.63 Vested 47 1.77 32 1.80 62 1.35 Forfeited 47 1.57 50 1.40 47 1.35 31 March 178 1.91 198 1.77 217 1.56 Other information The total fair value of shares vested during the year ended 31 March 2017 was 83 million 2016: 58 million: 2015: 84 million.
The compensation cost included in the consolidated income statement in respect of share options and share plans was 95 million 2016: 154 million: 2015: 104 million which is comprised principally of equity-settled transactions.
The average share price for the year ended 31 March 2017 was 216.2 pence 2016: 224.2 pence: 2015: 212.7 pence.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 161 28.
Acquisitions and disposals We completed a number of acquisitions and disposals during the year, most significantly, the combination of our operations in the Netherlands with those of Liberty Global plc to form VodafoneZiggo, a 50:50 joint venture, details of which are set out below.
Accounting policies Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries are accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values at the date of exchange of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued by the Group.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The acquirees identifiable assets and liabilities are recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the Groups previously held equity interest in the acquiree, if any, over the net amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.
The interest of the non-controlling shareholders in the acquiree may initially be measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling shareholders proportion of the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
The choice of measurement basis is made on an  basis.
Acquisition of interests from non-controlling shareholders In transactions with non-controlling parties that do not result in a change in control, the difference between the fair value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted is recognised in equity.
Acquisitions The aggregate cash consideration in respect of purchases of interests in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired, is as follows: m Cash consideration paid: Acquisitions completed during the year 32 Net cash acquired 4 28 During the 2017 financial year, the Group completed a number of acquisitions for an aggregate net cash consideration of 28 million.
The aggregate fair values of goodwill, identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired operations were 1 million, 34 million and 7 million respectively.
No amount of goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes.
Disposals On 31 December 2016, we combined our operations in the Netherlands with those of Liberty Global plc to create VodafoneZiggo Group Holding B. V. VodafoneZiggo, a 50:50 joint venture providing national unified communications.
As a result of the transaction, we no longer consolidate our previous interest in the Netherlands and account for our 50% interest in VodafoneZiggo as a Joint Venture using the equity method.
The Group recognised a net gain on the formation of VodafoneZiggo of 1,275 million.
m Goodwill 855 Other intangible assets 1,415 Property, plant and equipment 1,164 Inventory 24 Trade and other receivables 302 1 Cash and cash equivalents 56 Current and deferred taxation 87 Short and long-term borrowings 1,000 Trade and other payables 387 Provisions 28 Net assets contributed into VodafoneZiggo 2,314 2 Fair value of investment in VodafoneZiggo 2,970 1,3 Net cash proceeds arising from the transaction 619 4 Net gain on formation of VodafoneZiggo 1,275 Notes: 1 Included in purchase of interests in associates and joint ventures in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
2 The fair value of our initial investment in VodafoneZiggo is not observable in a quoted market.
Accordingly, the fair value has been primarily determined with reference to the outcome of a discounted cash flow analysis.
Certain significant inputs used in the valuation, such as forecasts of future cash flows, are based on our assumptions and are therefore unobservable.
The valuation therefore falls under Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The weighted average cost of capital and terminal growth rate used to value our initial investment in VodafoneZiggo were 7.0% and 1.0% respectively.
3 Includes our 50% share of cash paid to both shareholders on creation of VodafoneZiggo 1,422 million, together with an equalisation payment of 802 million made to Liberty Global plc.
4 Reported in other income and expense in the consolidated income statement.
Includes 637 million related to the re-measurement of our retained interest in Vodafone Libertel B. V. Transaction costs of 35 million were charged in the consolidated income statement in the year.
162 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 29.
Commitments A commitment is a contractual obligation to make a payment in the future, mainly in relation to leases and agreements to buy assets such as network infrastructure and IT systems.
These amounts are not recorded in the consolidated statement of financial position since we have not yet received the goods or services from thesupplier.
The amounts below are the minimum amounts that we are committed to pay.
Accounting policies Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments as determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are recognised in the income statement.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, network infrastructure, motor vehicles and items of equipment.
The leaseshave various terms, escalation clauses, purchase options and renewal rights, none of which are individually significant to the Group.
Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases comprise: Restated 2017 2016 m m Within one year 2,522 1,931 In more than one year but less than two years 1,487 1,386 In more than two years but less than three years 1,136 1,250 In more than three years but less than four years 882 1,008 In more than four years but less than five years 709 799 In more than five years 2,693 3,569 9,429 9,943 The total of future minimum sublease payments expected to be received under non-cancellable subleases is 584 million 2016: 502 million.
Capital commitments Company and subsidiaries Share of joint operations Group Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not 1 provided in the financial statements 2,052 2,471 88 123 2,140 2,594 Note: 1 Commitment includes contracts placed for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets.
Acquisition commitments On 20 March 2017, Vodafone announced the agreement to combine its subsidiary, Vodafone India excluding its 42% stake in Indus Towers, with Idea Cellular, which is listed on the Indian Stock Exchanges, with the combined company to be jointly controlled by Vodafone and the Aditya Birla Group.
Vodafone will own 45.1% of the combined company after transferring a stake of 4.9% to the Aditya Birla Group for circa INR39 billion circa US$579 million in cash concurrent with completion of the merger.
The Aditya Birla Group will then own 26.0% and has the right to acquire more shares from Vodafone under an agreed mechanism with a view to equalising the shareholdings over time.
If Vodafone and the Aditya Birla Groups shareholdings in the combined company are not equal after four years, Vodafone will sell down shares in the combined company to equalise its shareholding to that of the Aditya Birla Group over the following five-year period.
Until equalisation is achieved, the voting rights of the additional shares held by Vodafone will be restricted and votes will be exercised jointly under the terms of the shareholders agreement.
The transaction is subject to approvals from the relevant regulatory authorities and is also subject to other customary closing conditions, including the absence of any material adverse change.
Shareholder approval will be required from Idea shareholders under a scheme of arrangement.
The transaction has a break-fee of INR33 billion US$500 million that would become payable under certain circumstances.
It is anticipated that completion will take place during the 2018 calendar year.
On 9 June 2016, Vodafone announced its intention to merge with Sky Network Television in New Zealand, thereby creating the countrys leading integrated telecommunications and media group.
Vodafone will become a 51% shareholder in the combined group, will receive NZ$1.25 billion in cash and will look to realise the benefits of an estimated NZ$850 million NPV from synergies.
Sky shareholders have voted in favour of the transaction but completion is still subject to local regulatory approvals.
In February 2017, the New Zealand Commerce Commission NZCC did not approve the proposed merger with Sky Network Television.
We are reviewing the reasoning of the NZCC and have preserved the right to appeal the decision.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 163 30.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings Contingent liabilities are potential future cash outflows, where the likelihood of payment is considered more than remote, but is not considered probable or cannot be measured reliably.
Restated 2017 2016 m m 1 Performance bonds 2,413 1,074 2 Other guarantees and contingent liabilities 3,576 3,216 Notes: 1 Performance bonds require the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group does not perform what is expected of it under the terms of any relatedcontracts or commercial arrangements.
2 Other guarantees principally comprise Vodafone Group Plcs guarantee of the Groups 50% share of an AUD1.7 billion loan facility and a US$3.5 billion loan facility of its joint venture, VodafoneHutchison Australia Pty Limited.
UK pension schemes The Groups main defined benefit scheme is the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme the Scheme which has two segregated sections, the Vodafone Section and the CWW Section, as detailed in note 26.
The Group has covenanted to provide security in favour of the Vodafone UK Group Pension Scheme Vodafone Section whilst a deficit remains for this section.
The deficit is measured on a prescribed basis agreed between the Group and Trustee.
The Group provides a combination of surety bonds and a charge over UK indexed gilts as the security.
The level of the security has varied since inception in line with the movement in the Scheme deficit.
At 31 March 2017 the Scheme retains security over 1.2 billion notional value.
The security may be substituted either on a voluntary or mandatory basis.
The Company has also provided two guarantees to the Vodafone Section of the Scheme for a combined value up to 1.5 billion to provide security over the deficit under certain defined circumstances, including insolvency of the employers.
The Company has also agreed a similar guarantee of up to 1.5 billion for the CWW Section.
An additional smaller UK defined benefit scheme, the THUS Plc Group Scheme, has a guarantee from the Company for up to 130 million.
Legal proceedings The Company and its subsidiaries are currently, and may from time to time become, involved in a number of legal proceedings, including inquiries from, or discussions with, governmental authorities that are incidental to their operations.
However, save as disclosed below, the Company does not believe that it or its subsidiaries are currently involved in i any legal or arbitration proceedings including any governmental proceedings which are pending or known to be contemplated which may have, or have had in the 12 months preceding the date of this report, a material adverse effect on the financial position or profitability of the Company or its subsidiaries: or ii any material proceedings in which any of the Companys Directors, members of senior management or affiliates are either a party adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries or have a material interest adverse to the Company or its subsidiaries.
Due to inherent uncertainties, the Company cannot make any accurate quantification of any cost, or timing of such cost, which may arise from any of the legal proceedings referred to in this Annual Report, however costs in complex litigation can be substantial.
Indian tax cases In August 2007 and September 2007, Vodafone India Limited VIL and Vodafone International Holdings BV VIHBV respectively received notices from the Indian tax authority alleging potential liability in connection with an alleged failure by VIHBV to deduct withholding tax from consideration paid to the Hutchison Telecommunications International Limited group HTIL in respect of HTILs gain on its disposal to VIHBV of its interests in a wholly-owned Cayman Island incorporated subsidiary that indirectly holds interests in VIL.
Following approximately five years of litigation in the Indian courts in which VIHBV sought to set aside the tax demand issued by the Indian tax authority, in January 2012 the Supreme Court of India handed down its judgement, holding that VIHBVs interpretation of the Income Tax Act 1961 was correct, that the HTIL transaction in 2007 was not taxable in India, and that consequently, VIHBV had no obligation to withhold tax from consideration paid to HTIL in respect of the transaction.
The Supreme Court of India quashed the relevant notices and demands issued to VIHBV in respect of withholding tax and interest.
On 28 May 2012 the Finance Act 2012 became law.
The Finance Act 2012, which amended various provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961 with retrospective effect, contained provisions intended to tax any gain on transfer of shares in a non-Indian company, which derives substantial value from underlying Indian assets, such as VIHBVs transaction with HTIL in 2007.
Further, it seeks to subject a purchaser, such as VIHBV, to a retrospective obligation to withhold tax.
VIHBV received a letter on 3 January 2013 from the Indian tax authority reminding it of the tax demand raised prior to the Supreme Court of Indias judgement and purporting to update the interest element of that demand to a total amount of INR142 billion, which amount includes principal and interest as calculated by the Indian tax authority but does not include penalties.
On 10 January 2014, VIHBV served an amended trigger notice on the Indian Government under the Netherlands-India Bilateral Investment Treaty Dutch BIT, supplementing a trigger notice filed on 17 April 2012, immediately prior to the Finance Act 2012 becoming effective, to add claims relating to an attempt by the Indian Government to tax aspects of the transaction with HTIL under transfer pricing rules.
A trigger notice announces a partys intention to submit a claim to arbitration and triggers a cooling off period during which both parties may seek to resolve the dispute amicably.
Notwithstanding their attempts, the parties were unable to amicably resolve the dispute within the cooling off period stipulated in the Dutch BIT.
On 17 April 2014, VIHBV served its notice of arbitration under the Dutch BIT, formally commencing the Dutch BIT arbitration proceedings.
In June 2016, the tribunal was fully constituted with Sir Franklin Berman KCMG QC appointed as presiding arbitrator.
The Indian Government has raised objections to the application of the treaty to VIHBVs claims and to the jurisdiction of the tribunal under the Dutch BIT.
The tribunal is considering these jurisdictional objections and has indicated it will determine shortly whether to decide the Indian Governments objections to jurisdiction as a preliminary question.
164 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued Separately, on 15 June 2015, Vodafone Group Plc and Vodafone Consolidated Holdings Limited served a trigger notice on the Indian Government under the United Kingdom-India Bilateral Investment Treaty UK BIT in respect of retrospective tax claims under the Income Tax Act 1961 as amended by the Finance Act 2012.
Although relating to the same underlying facts as the claim under the Dutch BIT, the claim brought by Vodafone Group Plc and Vodafone Consolidated Holdings Limited is a separate and distinct claim under a different treaty.
On 24 January 2017, Vodafone Group Plc and Vodafone Consolidated Holdings Limited served a Notice of Arbitration on the Indian Government formally commencing the arbitration.
The Indian Government has failed to appoint a second arbitrator as required under the UK BIT and has objected to Vodafones request that the President of the International Court of Justice as appointing authority under the UK BIT appoint the second arbitrator to the tribunal.
The Indian Government has indicated that it considers the arbitration under the UK BIT to be an abuse of process but this is strongly denied by Vodafone.
On 12 February 2016, VIHBV received a notice dated 4 February 2016 of an outstanding tax demand of INR221 billion which included interest accruing since the date of the original demand along with a statement that enforcement action, including against VIHBVs indirectly held assets in India would be taken if the demand was not satisfied.
Separate proceedings in the Bombay High Court taken against VIHBV to seek to treat it as an agent of HTIL in respect of its alleged tax on the same transaction, as well as penalties of up to 100% of the assessed withholding tax for the alleged failure to have withheld such taxes, were listed for hearing at the request of the Indian Government on 21 April 2016 despite the issue having been ruled upon by the Supreme Court of India.
The hearing has since been periodically listed and then adjourned or not reached hearing.
VIHBV and Vodafone Group Plc will continue to defend vigorously any allegation that VIHBV or VIL is liable to pay tax in connection with the transaction with HTIL and will continue to exercise all rights to seek redress including pursuant to the Dutch BIT and the UK BIT.
We have not recorded a provision in respect of the retrospective provisions of the Income Tax Act 1961 as amended by the Finance Act 2012 and any tax demands based upon such provisions.
Other Indian tax cases VIL and Vodafone India Services Private Limited VISPL formerly 3GSPL are involved in a number of tax cases with total claims exceeding 2.6 billion plus interest, and penalties of up to 300% of the principal.
VISPL tax claims VISPL has been assessed as owing tax of approximately 301 million plus interest of 432 million in respect of i a transfer pricing margin charged for the international call centre of HTIL prior to the 2007 transaction with Vodafone for HTIL assets in India: ii the sale of the international call centre by VISPL to HTIL: and iii the acquisition of and or the alleged transfer of options held by VISPL for VIL.
The first two of the three heads of tax are subject to an indemnity by HTIL.
The larger part of the potential claim is not subject to any indemnity.
VISPL unsuccessfully challenged the merits of the tax demand in the statutory tax tribunal and the jurisdiction of the tax office to make the demand in the High Court.
The Tax Appeal Tribunal heard the appeal and ruled in the Tax Offices favour.
VISPL lodged an appeal and stay application in the Bombay High Court which was concluded in early May 2015.
On 13 July 2015 the tax authorities issued a revised tax assessment reducing the tax VISPL had previously been assessed as owing in respect of i and ii above.
In the meantime, i a stay of the tax demand on a deposit of 20 million and ii a corporate guarantee by VIHBV for the balance of tax assessed remain in place.
On 8 October 2015, the Bombay High Court ruled in favour of Vodafone in relation to the options and the call centre sale.
The Tax Office has appealed to the Supreme Court of India.
A hearing has been adjourned until some time in July or August 2017 with no specified date.
Indian regulatory cases Litigation remains pending in the Telecommunications Dispute Settlement Appellate Tribunal TDSAT, High Courts and the Supreme Court of India in relation to a number of significant regulatory issues including mobile termination rates MTRs, spectrum and licence fees, licence extension and 3G intra-circle roaming ICR.
Public interest litigation: Yakesh Anand v Union of India, Vodafone and others The Petitioner brought a special leave petition in the Supreme Court of India on 30 January 2012 against the Government of India and mobile network operators, including VIL, seeking recovery of the alleged excess spectrum allocated to the operators, compensation for the alleged excess spectrum held in the amount of approximately 4.7 billion and a criminal investigation of an alleged conspiracy between government officials and the network operators.
A claim with similar allegations was dismissed by the Supreme Court of India in March 2012, with an order that the Petitioner should pay a fine for abuse of process.
The case is pending before the Supreme Court of India and is expected to be called for hearing at some uncertain future date.
3G inter-circle roaming: Vodafone India and others v Union of India In April 2013, the Indian Department of Telecommunications DoT issued a stoppage notice to VILs operating subsidiaries and other mobile operators requiring the immediate stoppage of the provision of 3G services on other operators mobile networks in an alleged breach of licence claim.
The DoT also imposed a fine of approximately 5.5 million.
VIL applied to the Delhi High Court for an order quashing the DoTs notice.
Interim relief from the notice has been granted but limited to existing customers at the time with the effect that VIL was not able to provide 3G services to new customers on other operators 3G networks pending a decision on the issue.
The dispute was referred to the TDSAT for decision, which ruled on 28 April 2014 that VIL and the other operators were permitted to provide 3G services to their customers current and future on other operators networks.
The DoT has appealed the judgement and sought a stay of the tribunals judgement.
The DoTs stay application was rejected by the Supreme Court of India.
The matter is pending before the Indian Supreme Court of India.
One time spectrum charges: VIL v Union of India The Indian Government has sought to impose one time spectrum charges of approximately 525 million on certain operating subsidiaries of VIL.
VIL filed a petition before the TDSAT challenging the one time spectrum charges on the basis that they are illegal, violate VILs licence terms and are arbitrary, unreasonable and discriminatory.
The tribunal stayed enforcement of the Governments spectrum demand pending resolution of the dispute.
The matter is due to go for final hearing before the Supreme Court of India, and will be listed in due course.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 165 Other public interest litigation Three public interest litigations have been initiated in the Supreme Court of India against the Indian Government and private operators on the grounds that the grant of additional spectrum beyond 4.4 6.2 MHz has been illegal.
The cases seek appropriate investigation and compensation forthe loss to the exchequer.
Adjusted Gross Revenue AGR dispute before the Supreme Court of India: VIL and others v Union of India VIL has challenged the tribunals judgement dated 23 April 2015 to the extent that it dealt with the calculation of AGR, upon which licence fees and spectrum usage charges are based.
The cumulative impact of the inclusion of these components is approximately Rs.
The DoT also moved cross appeals challenging the tribunals judgement.
In the hearing before the Supreme Court of India, the Court orally directed the DoT not to take any coercive steps in the matter, which was adjourned.
On 29 February 2016, the Supreme Court of India ordered that the DoT may continue to raise demands for fees and charges, but may not enforce them until a final decision on the matter.
Other cases in the Group Patent litigation Germany The telecoms industry is currently involved in significant levels of patent litigation brought by non-practising entities NPEs which have acquired patent portfolios from current and former industry companies.
Vodafone is currently a party to patent litigation cases in Germany brought against Vodafone Germany by Marthon, IPCom and Intellectual Ventures.
Vodafone has contractual indemnities from suppliers which have been invoked in relation to the alleged patent infringement liability.
Spain Vodafone Group Plc has been sued in Spain by TOT Power Control TOT, an affiliate of Top Optimized Technologies.
The claim makes a number of allegations including patent infringement, with TOT seeking over 500 million from Vodafone Group Plc as well as an injunction against using the technology in question.
Vodafones challenge of the appropriateness of Spain as a venue for this dispute has been denied.
Vodafone Group Plc will appeal the denial.
A hearing on TOTs application for an injunction has taken place, and a decision is expected shortly.
Germany: Mannesmann and Kabel Deutschland takeover class actions The German courts are determining the adequacy of the mandatory cash offer made to minority shareholders in Vodafones takeover of Mannesmann.
This matter has been ongoing since 2001.
The German courts are also determining whether squeeze out compensation is payable to affected Mannesmann shareholders in a similar proceeding.
In September 2014, the German courts awarded compensation to minority shareholders of Mannesmann in the amount of 229.58 per share, which would result in a pay-out of 19 million plus 13 million of accrued interest.
The German courts also ruled that the squeeze out compensation should amount to 251.31 per share, which would result in a pay-out of 43.8 million plus interest of 23 million of accrued interest.
Vodafone has appealed these decisions.
Similar proceedings were initiated by 80 Kabel Deutschland shareholders.
These proceeding are in their early stages, and, accordingly, Vodafone believes that it is too early to assess the likely quantum of any claim.
In a hearing dated 6 October 2016, the Court examined the Kabel Deutschland business plan which formed the main basis for the calculation of the offer per share.
A decision is not expected until summer 2017.
Italy: British Telecom Italy v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations that it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, British Telecom Italy brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
British Telecom Italy seeks damages in the amount of 280 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market for the period from 1999 to 2007.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 10 million to 25 million which was reduced in a further supplementary report published in September 2014 to a range of 8 million to 11 million.
Judgement was handed down by the court in August 2015, awarding 12 million including interest to British Telecom Italy.
British Telecom Italy has appealed the amount of the damages to the Court of Appeal of Milan.
In addition, British Telecom Italy has asked again for a reference to the European Court of Justice for an interpretation of the European community law on antitrust damages.
Vodafone Italy has filed an appeal and the hearing is scheduled for July 2017.
Italy: FASTWEB v Vodafone Italy The Italian Competition Authority concluded an investigation in 2007 when Vodafone Italy gave certain undertakings in relation to allegations it had abused its dominant position in the wholesale market for mobile termination.
In 2010, FASTWEB brought a civil damages claim against Vodafone Italy on the basis of the Competition Authoritys investigation and Vodafone Italys undertakings.
FASTWEB sought damages in the amount of 360 million for abuse of dominant position by Vodafone Italy in the wholesale fixed to mobile termination market.
A court appointed expert delivered an opinion to the Court that the range of damages in the case should be in the region of 0.5 million to 2.3 million.
On 15 October 2014, the Court decided to reject FASTWEBs damages claim in its entirety.
FASTWEB appealed the decision and the first appeal hearing took place in September 2015.
The final hearing took place in September 2016, and on 1 March 2017 the Court rejected FASTWEBs appeal and confirmed the first instance ruling.
FASTWEB has until October 2017 to appeal this decision to the Supreme Court.
Italy: Telecom Italia v Vodafone Italy TeleTu Telecom Italia brought civil claims against Vodafone Italy in relation to TeleTus alleged anti-competitive retention of customers.
Telecom Italia seeks damages in the amount of 101 million.
The Court decided on 9 June 2015 to appoint an expert to verify whether TeleTu has put in place anticompetitive retention activities.
The expert has prepared a draft report with a range of damages from nil5.6 million.
166 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings continued Greece: Papistas Holdings SA, Mobile Trade Stores formerly Papistas SA and Athanasios and Loukia Papistas v Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and Officers of Vodafone In December 2013, Mr. and Mrs. Papistas, and companies owned or controlled by them, brought three claims in the Greek court in Athens against Vodafone Greece, Vodafone Group Plc and certain Directors and officers of Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc for purported damage caused by the alleged abuse of dominance and wrongful termination of a franchise arrangement with a Papistas company.
Approximately 1.0 billion of the claim is directed exclusively at one former and one current Director of Vodafone Greece.
The balance of the claim approximately 285.5 million is sought from Vodafone Greece and Vodafone Group Plc on a joint and several basis.
Both cases have been adjourned until September 2018, but it is possible that Papistas may re-file his claim under the new Greek civil procedure regime which aims to hear trials within one year.
Netherlands: Consumer credit handset case In February 2016, the Dutch Supreme Court ruled on the Dutch implementation of the EU Consumer Credit Directive and instalment sales agreements a Dutch law concept, holding that bundled all-in mobile subscription agreements i. e. device along with mobile services are considered consumer credit agreements.
As a result, Vodafone Netherlands, together with the industry, has been working with the Ministry of Finance and the Competition Authority on compliance requirements going forward for such offers.
The ruling also has retrospective effect.
A number of small claims have been submitted by individual customers in the small claims courts.
South Africa: GH Investments GHI v Vodacom Congo Vodacom Congo contracted with GHI to install ultra-low cost base stations on a revenue share basis.
After rolling out three sites, GHI stopped and sought to renegotiate the terms.
GHI accused it of bad faith and infringement of intellectual property rights.
In April 2015, GHI issued a formal notice for a claim of US$1.16 billion, although there does not seem to be a proper basis nor any substantiation for the compensation claimed.
The dispute was submitted to mediation under the International Chamber of Commerce.
A mediator was appointed in September 2015 who convened a first meeting which took place in early November 2015.
A follow-up mediation meeting was scheduled for December 2015 but was postponed without a new date having been fixed.
In July 2016, Vodacom filed a request for arbitration with the International Chamber of Commerces International Court of Arbitration.
In their response GHI revised their claim down to 237 million.
Each party has appointed an arbitrator and the arbitrators have appointed a third arbitrator to act as chairman of the tribunal.
South Africa: Makate v Vodacom Proprietary Limited Vodacom In 2008, Mr. Makate instituted legal proceedings to claim compensation for a business idea that led to a product known as Please Call Me.
On 1 July 2014, the South Gauteng High Court, Johannesburg the High Court found that Mr. Makate had proven the existence of a contract.
However, the High Court ruled that Vodacom was not bound by that contract because the responsible director of product development and services did not have authority to enter into any such agreement on Vodacoms behalf.
The High Court also rejected Mr. Makates claim on the basis that it had lapsed in terms of the Prescription Act 68 of 1969.
The High Court and Supreme Court of Appeal turned down Mr. Makates application for leave to appeal on 11 December 2014 and 2 March 2015, respectively.
Mr. Makate applied for leave to appeal in the Constitutional Court.
On 26 April 2016, after having heard the application on 1 September 2015, the Constitutional Court granted leave to appeal and upheld Mr. Makates appeal.
In doing so, the Constitutional Court ordered that: i Vodacom is bound by the agreement concluded between Mr. Makate and the then director of product development and services: ii Vodacom is to commence negotiations in good faith with Mr. Makate to determine reasonable compensation: and iii in the event of the parties failing to agree on the reasonable compensation, the matter must be submitted to Vodacoms Chief Executive Officer for determination of the amount within a reasonable time.
Mr. Makate failed to obtain from the Constitutional Court a second order that compensation be based on revenue rather than fees for his contribution.
Negotiations between Vodacom and Mr. Makate continue in accordance with the first order of the Constitutional Court.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 167 31.
Related party transactions The Group has a number of related parties including joint arrangements and associates, pension schemes and Directors and Executive Committee members see note 12 Investments in associates and joint arrangements, note 26 Post employment benefits and note 24 Directors and key management compensation.
Transactions with joint arrangements and associates Related party transactions with the Groups joint arrangements and associates primarily comprise fees for the use of products and services including network airtime and access charges, fees for the provision of network infrastructure and cash pooling arrangements.
No related party transactions have been entered into during the year which might reasonably affect any decisions made by the users of these consolidated financial statements except as disclosed below.
Restated Restated 2017 2016 2015 m m m Sales of goods and services to associates 37 39 44 Purchase of goods and services from associates 90 118 118 Sales of goods and services to joint arrangements 19 21 7 Purchase of goods and services from joint arrangements 183 92 96 1 Net interest income receivable from joint arrangements 87 92 100 Trade balances owed: by associates 1 4 to associates 1 4 5 by joint arrangements 158 232 253 to joint arrangements 15 71 65 1 Other balances owed by joint arrangements 1,209 108 85 1 Other balances owed to joint arrangements 127 106 75 Note: 1 Amounts arise primarily through VodafoneZiggo, Vodafone Hutchison Australia, Indus Towers Limited and Cornerstone Telecommunications Infrastructure Limited.
Interest is paid in line with market rates.
Dividends received from associates and joint ventures are disclosed in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
Transactions with Directors other than compensation During the three years ended 31 March 2017, and as of 16 May 2017, no Director nor any other executive officer, nor any associate of any Director or any other executive officer, was indebted to the Company.
During the three years ended 31 March 2017 and as of 16 May 2017, the Company has not been a party to any other material transaction, or proposed transactions, in which any member of the key management personnel including Directors, any other executive officer, senior manager, any spouse or relative of any of the foregoing or any relative of such spouse had or was to have a direct or indirect material interest.
Subsequent events On 15 May 2017, the Group announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Vodafone International Holdings B. V. VIHBV, has agreed to transfer part of its indirect shareholding in Safaricom Limited Safaricom to Vodacom Group Limited Vodacom, its sub-Saharan African subsidiary.
Based on the agreed terms of the transaction, VIHBV will be exchanging a 35% indirect interest in Safaricom for 226.8 million new ordinary Vodacom shares.
The transaction, which has a value of 2,361 million based on Vodacoms closing share price on Friday 12 May 2017, will increase the Groups ownership in Vodacom from 65% to 70%.
VIHBV will continue to hold a 5% indirect interest in Safaricom following the transfer, in addition to the interest held through Vodacom.
Completion of the transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including approvals from Vodacom minority shareholders, approval from the Financial Surveillance Department of the South African Reserve Bank and confirmation from the Kenya Capital Markets Authority that the transaction does not trigger an obligation for Vodacom to make a mandatory bid for Safaricom.
The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of the 2017 calendar year and is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups free cash flow or earnings.
168 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Related undertakings A full list of all of our subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated undertakings is detailed below.
A full list of subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated undertakings as defined in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as at 31 March 2017 is detailed below.
No subsidiaries are excluded from the Group consolidation.
Unless otherwise stated the Companys subsidiaries all have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares and are indirectly held.
The percentage held by Group companies reflect both the proportion of nominal capital and voting rights unless otherwise stated.
Subsidiaries Accounting policies A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the activities that affect the Companys returns and exposure or rights to variable returns from the entity.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity therein.
Non-controlling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the date of the original business combination and the non-controlling shareholders share of changes in equity since the date of the combination.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
% held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Albania Belgium China Autostrada Tirane-Durres, Rruga: Pavaresia, Nr 61, Kashar, Malta House, rue Archimde 25, 1000 Bruxelles, Belgium Building 21, 11, Kangding St. BDA, Beijing, 100176 - China, Tirana, Albania Vodafone Belgium SA NV 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Automotive 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone M-PESA SH.
P. K. 99.94 Ordinary shares Technologies Beijing Co, Ltd Zaventemsesteenweg 162 1831 Diegem, Belgium Vodafone Albania Sh.
A 99.94 Ordinary shares Unit 23-25, China World Tower 1, No.
1 Jianguomenwai Ipergy Communications NV 100.00 Ordinary shares Avenue, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100004, China Angola Vodafone China Limited China 100.00 Equity interest Brazil shares Avenida Che Guevara, No 49, Maculusso, Luanda, Angola Av Jos Rocha Bonfim, 214, Cond Praa Capital Edifcio Unit 558-560, Regus SCB Tower, No.
210 Century Avenue, Vodacom Business Angola 65.00 Ordinary shares Toronto, sls 228 229 13080-900 Jardim Santa Genebra, 3 Pudong District, Shanghai, 200120, China Limitada Campinas, So Paulo, Brazil Vodafone Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares Cobra do Brasil Servios fide 70.00 Ordinary shares Argentina Communications Technical Telemtica ltda.
Services Shanghai Co. Ltd Cerrito 348, 5to B, C1010AAH, Buenos Aires, Argentina Avenida Cidade Jardim, 400, 7th and 20th Floors, Jardim Unit 1708, Full Tower, No.
9 Dong San Huan Zhong Road, Paulistano, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 01454-000, Brazil CWGNL S. A.
100.00 Ordinary shares Chaoyang District, Beijing, 100020, China Vodafone Servios Empresariais 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Communications 100.00 Branch Australia Brasil Ltda.
Technical Service Shanghai Co. HLB Mann Judd NSW Pty Ltd, Level 19, 207 Kent Street, City of So Paulo, State of So Paulo, at Rua Boa Vista, 254, Ltd Beijing Branch Sydney NSW NSW 2000, Australia 13th Floor, Suite 38, Centro, 01014-907, Brazil Bluefish Australia Pty Ltd 100.00 Ordinary shares Congo, The Democratic Republic of the Vodafone Empresa Brasil 100.00 Ordinary shares Telecomunicaes Ltda Mills Oakley, Level 12, 400 George Street, Sydney NSW 292 Avenue fide la Justice, Commune fide la Gombe, Kinshasa, 2000, Australia Congo Bulgaria 3 Vodafone Enterprise Australia Pty 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodacash s. p. r. l. 33.15 Ordinary shares 37A Fridtjof Nansen Str.
5th floor, Sredets Region, Sofia, Limited 3,4 Vodacom Congo RDC SA 33.15 Ordinary shares, 1142, Bulgaria Level 7, 210 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia 4% redeemable Vodafone Enterprise Bulgaria EOOD 100.00 Ordinary shares preference shares Quickcomm Pty Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, Redeemable Cameroon Cte dIvoire convertible preference shares Porte 201A 3eme Etage Entree C, immeuble SOCAR, No 62, Rue du Docteur Blanchard, Zone 4C, Abidjan, Boulevard fide la liberte, Akwa, Douala, Cameroon CotedIvoire Level 7, 40 Mount Street, North Sydney NSW 2060, Australia 3 Vodacom Business Cameroon SA 65.00 Ordinary shares Vodacom Business Cote Divoire 65.00 Ordinary shares PPL Pty Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 S. A. R. L. Talkland Australia Pty Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Canada Cyprus VAPL No.
2 Pty Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 2 Bloor Street West, Suite 700, Toronto ON M4W3E2, Canada Ali Rza Efendi Caddesi No:33 A Ortaky, Lefkoa, Cyprus Vodafone Canada Inc 100.00 Common shares Austria Vodafone Mobile Operations 100.00 Ordinary shares Kohlmarkt 8-10, 1010, Wien, Austria Cayman Islands Limited Vodafone Enterprise Austria GmbH 100.00 Ordinary shares 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1-9005, Czech Republic Cayman Islands Bahrain Nmst Junkovch 2, Prague 5, Czech Republic, 13000, CGP Investments Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares Czech Republic Office 304, Building 60 Falcon Tower, Road 1701, Diplomatic Limited Area, Manama, 317, Bahrain Vodafone Czech Republic A. S. 100.00 Ordinary shares Chile Vodafone Enterprise Bahrain W. L. L. 100.00 Ordinary shares Oskar Mobil S. R. O.
100.00 Basic capital 222 Miraflores, P. 28, Santiago, Metrop 97-763, Chile shares Vodafone Enterprise Chile SA 100.00 Regular Vodafone Enterprise Europe UK 100.00 Branch nominative shares Limited Czech Branch Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 169 % held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class  2, 38100, Braunschweig, Denmark Hungary Germany c o Lundgrens Law Firm P S, Tuborg Havnevej 19, 2900, 40-44 Hungaria Krt.
Budapest, H-1087, Hungary KABELCOM Braunschweig 76.70 Ordinary shares Hellerup, Denmark Gesellschaft Fur BreitbandkabelVSSB Vodafone Shared Services 100.00 Registered Kommunikation Mit Beschrankter Vodafone Enterprise Denmark A S 100.00 Ordinary shares Budapest Private Limited Company ordinary shares 7 Haftung 6 Lechner dn fasor, Budapest, 1096, Hungary Egypt Landsberger Strasse 155, 80687 Munich, Germany Vodafone Magyarorszag Mobile 100.00 Series A registered 14 Wadi el Nile ST, Dokki, Giza, Egypt, Egypt Vodafone Enterprise Germany 100.00 Ordinary shares, Tavkozlesi Zartkoruen Mukodo common shares GmbH Ordinary #2 shares 2 Reszvenytarsasag Sarmady Communications 54.91 Ordinary shares Medienallee 24, 85774, Unterfohring, Germany 17 Port Said Street, Maadi El Sarayat, Cairo, Egypt India Kabelfernsehen Munchen 23.18 Ordinary shares Misrfone Trading Company LLC 54.38 Ordinary shares 127, Maker Chamber III, Nariman Point, Mumbai, Servicenter GmbH & Co. KG Maharashtra, 400021, India 2 Building, 36 Central Road, Giza, Egypt Nobelstrasse 55, 18059, Rostock, Germany Vodafone Data 54.93 Ordinary shares Ag Mercantile Company Private 100.00 Equity shares Urbana Teleunion Rostock GmbH 53.69 Ordinary shares Limited Piece No.
1 14A, 6th October City, & Co. KG Egypt Jaykay Finholding India Private 100.00 Equity shares Verwaltung Urbana Teleunion 38.35 Ordinary shares Limited 7 Vodafone International Services LLC 54.93 Ordinary shares Rostock GmbH MV Healthcare Services Private 100.00 Equity shares Site No 15 3C, Central Axis, 6th October City, Egypt Seilerstrasse 18, 38440, Wolfsburg, Germany Limited Vodafone Egypt 54.93 Ordinary shares KABELCOM Wolfsburg 76.70 Ordinary shares Nadal Trading Company Private 100.00 Equity shares Telecommunications S. A. E. Gesellschaft Fur  Kommunikation Mit Beschrankter 37 Kaser El Nil St, 4th.
Floor, Cairo, Egypt 7 ND Callus Info Services Private 100.00 Equity shares Haftung Limited Starnet 54.93 Ordinary shares Sudwestpark 15, 90449, Nurnberg, Germany Omega Telecom Holdings Private 100.00 Equity shares Finland Vodafone Kabel Deutschland Field 76.70 Ordinary shares Limited 7 Services GmbH c o AAtsto DLA Piper Finland Oy, Fabianinkatu 23, Helsinki, Plustech Mercantile Company 100.00 Equity shares 00130, Finland Private Limited Ghana Vodafone Enterprise Finland OY 100.00 Ordinary shares Scorpios Beverages Pvt.
Ltd 100.00 Equity shares 3rd Floor, The Elizabeth Building, 68 Senchi Link, AirportResidential Area, Accra, Ghana SMMS Investments Pvt Limited 100.00 Equity shares France Vodacom Business Ghana 65.00 Ordinary shares Telecom Investments India Private 100.00 Equity shares 1300 Route fide Cretes, Le WTC, Bat I1, 06560, Valbonne Soph, 3 Limited and non-voting, Limited France irredeemable, UMT Investments Limited 100.00 Equity shares non-cumulative Vodafone Automotive Telematics 100.00 Ordinary shares preference shares Development S. A.
S 8th Floor, RDB Boulevard, Plot K-1, BlockEP & GP, Sector - V, Saltlake City, Kolkata, West Bengal, 700091, India Telecom House, Nswam Road, Accra-North, Greater Accra 144, Avenue Roger Salengro, 92372 Chaville Cedex, France Region, PMB 221, Ghana Usha Martin Telematics Limited 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Automotive France S. A.
S 50.94 Ordinary shares Ghana Telecommunications 70.00 Ordinary shares 10th Floor, Tower A&B, Global Technology Park, Tour Neptune 20, Place fide Seine, 92400 Courbevoie, France Company Limited Maple Tree Building, Marathahalli Outer Ring Road, Devarabeesanahalli Village, Varthur Hobli, Bengaluru, Vodafone Enterprise France SAS 100.00 New euro shares National Communications 70.00 Ordinary shares Karnataka, 560103, India Backbone Company Limited Germany Cable & Wireless Global India 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Ghana Mobile Financial 70.00 Ordinary shares Private Limited Altes Forsthaus 2, 67661, Kaiserslautern, Germany Services Limited Cable & Wireless Networks India 74.00 Equity shares TKS Telepost Kabel-Service 76.70 Ordinary shares 7 Private Limited Greece Kaiserslautern Beteiligungs GmbH C-48, Okhla Industrial Estate, Phase - II, New Delhi, TKS Telepost Kabel-Service 76.70 Ordinary shares 1-3 Tzavella str, 152 31 Halandri, Athens, Greece 7 110 020, India Kaiserslautern GmbH & Co. KG Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Mobile Services Limited 100.00 Equity shares Telecommunications Hellas A. E. Altmarkt 10d, 01067 Dresden, Germany Vodafone Towers Limited 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone-Panafon Hellenic 99.87 Ordinary shares Radio Opt GmbH 100.00 Ordinary shares Telecommunications Company S. A.
Business @ Mantri, Tower A, 3rd Floor, S No.
197, Betastrae 6-8, 85774 Unterfhring, Germany Wing A1 & A2, Near Hotel Four Points, Lohegaon, Pune, Marathonos Ave 18 km & Pylou, Pallini, Attica, 15351, 7 Kabel Deutschland Holding AG 76.70 Ordinary shares Maharashtra, 411014, India Greece Kabel Deutschland Holding Erste 76.70 Ordinary shares Vodafone Global Services Private 100.00 Equity shares Victus Networks S. A.
50.00 Ordinary shares 7 Beteiligungs GmbH Limited Parnithos 43 & Dilou, Metamorfosi, Athens, Greece Kabel Deutschland Neunte 100.00 Ordinary shares Peninsula Corporate Park, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Zelitron S. A.
99.87 Ordinary shares Beteiligungs GmbH LowerParel, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400013, India Kabel Deutschland Holding Zweite 76.70 Ordinary shares Pireos 74A Avenue, Neo Faliro, 18547, Greece Vodafone India Digital Limited 100.00 Equity shares 7 Beteilgungs GmbH 360 Connect S. A.
99.87 Ordinary shares Vodafone India Limited 100.00 Equity shares Kabel Deutschland Siebte 76.70 Ordinary shares 7 Vodafone India Ventures Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Beteiligungs GmbH Hong Kong Vodafone m-pesa Limited 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Kabel Deutschland 76.70 Ordinary shares 2207-08, 22 F, St. Georges Building, No.
2 Ice House Street, 7 GmbH Central, Hong Kong Vodafone Technology Solutions 100.00 Equity shares Limited Vodafone Kabel Deutschland 76.70 Ordinary shares Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares 7 Kundenbetreuung GmbH Hong Kong Limited Mobile Commerce Solutions 100.00 Equity shares Limited Buschurweg 4, 76870 Kandel, Germany Suite 1106-8, 11 F. Tai Yau Building, No.
181 Johnston Road, Wanchai, Hong Kong, Vodafone Foundation 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Automotive 100.00 Ordinary shares Deutschland GmbH Vodafone China Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Skyline Ikon, 1st Floor, 86 92, Andheri Kurla Road, Marol 1 Hong Kong Naka, Andheri East, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 400059, India  1, 40549, Duesseldorf, Germany Level 24, Dorset House, Taikoo Place, 979 Kings Road, Connect India Mobile 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Erste 100.00 Ordinary shares Quarry Bay, Hong Kong Technologies Private Limited  mbH Vodafone Enterprise Global 100.00 Ordinary shares Unit 1A & 1B Creator ITPL, Whitefiled Road, Bangalore, Vodafone GmbH 100.00 Ordinary A shares Network HK Ltd Karnataka, 560066, India Vodafone Group Services GmbH 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Hong Kong Ltd 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable and Wireless India Limited, 100.00 Branch Vodafone Institut fr Gesellschaft 100.00 Ordinary shares Indian Branch Office und Kommunikation GmbH Vodafone House, Corporate Road, Prahladnagar, Vodafone Stiftung Deutschland 100.00 Ordinary shares Off S. G. Highway, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, 380051, India 7 Gemeinnutzige GmbH Vodafone Business Services 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Vierte Verwaltungs AG 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone India Services Private 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited 170 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Related undertakings continued % held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Ireland Korea, Republic of Mexico 27 Lower Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin 2, Ireland 3rd Floor, 54 Gongse-ro, Gieheung-gu, Yongin-si, Ejercito Nacional 904, Piso 12, Polanco Los Morales, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea Miguel Hidalgo, C. P, 11510 MEXICO D. F, Mexico Siro Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Automotive Korea Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Empresa Mxico S. fide 100.00 Corporate 2nd Floor, The Iveagh Building, The Park, Carrickmines, R. L. fide C. V. certificate series A Dublin 18, Ireland Seocho-dong, Gangnam Building, 16th Floor, 396, shares, corporate Seocho-daero, Seocho-gu, Seou, Republic of Korea certificate series Eudokia Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Bshares Vodafone Enterprise Korea Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Mountainview, Leopardstown, Dublin 18, Ireland Vodafone Ireland Marketing 100.00 Ordinary shares Lesotho Morocco Limited Block B, Level 7, Development House, Kingsway Road, 129 Rue du Prince Moulay, Abdellah, Casablanca, Morocco Cable & Wireless GN Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Maseru, Lesotho Vodafone Maroc SARL 79.75 Ordinary shares 3 Vodafone Ireland Property 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodacom Lesotho Pty Limited 52.00 Ordinary shares Holdings Limited Mozambique Luxembourg Stentor Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Rua dos Desportistas, Numero 649, Cidade fide Maputo, 15 Rue Edward Steichen, Luxembourg, 2540, Luxembourg Mozambique Vodafone Enterprise Global 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited 3 VM, SA 55.25 Ordinary shares Tomorrow Street GP S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares and redeemable Vodafone Global Network Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Asset Management 100.00 Ordinary shares preference shares Vodafone Ireland Distribution 100.00 Ordinary shares Services S. r. l. Vodafone M-Pesa, S. A 55.25 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Enterprise Global 100.00 Ordinary shares Businesses S. r. l. Vodafone Ireland Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Netherlands Vodafone International 1 S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Ireland Retail Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Rivium Quadrant 173, 15th Floor, 2909 LC, Vodafone International M S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Capelle Aan Den Ijssel, Netherlands Vodafone Group Services Ireland 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Investments 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Netherlands BV 100.00 Ordinary shares Luxembourg S. r. l. Vodafone Europe B. V. 100.00 Ordinary shares Italy Vodafone Luxembourg 5 S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone International Holdings B. V. 100.00 Ordinary shares SS 33 del Sempione KM 35, 212, 21052 Busto Arsizio VA, Vodafone Luxembourg S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Italy Vodafone Panafon International 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Payment Solutions S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Holdings B. V. Vodafone Automotive Italia S. p. A 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Procurement Company 100.00 Ordinary shares Simon Carmiggelstraat 6, 1011 DJ, Amsterdam, Via Astico 41, 21100 Varese, Italy S. r. l. Netherlands Vodafone Automotive Electronic 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Roaming Services S. r. l. 100.00 Ordinary shares Wireless Interactions & 100.00 Ordinary shares Systems S. r. L NFCAccelerator 2013 B. V. Vodafone Enterprise Luxembourg S. A.
100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Automotive SpA 100.00 Ordinary shares Via Battistotti Sassi 11, 20133, Milano, Italy New Zealand Malaysia Vodafone Enterprise Italy S. r. L 100.00 Euro shares 74 Taharoto Road, Takapuna, Auckland, 0622, New Zealand Suite 13.03, 13th Floor, Menara Tan & Tan, 207 Jalan Tun Razak, 50400 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Via Lorenteggio 240, 20147, Milan, Italy Vodafone Mobile NZ Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone New Zealand Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Gestioni S. p. A.
100.00 Ordinary shares Malaysia Sdn Bhd Vodafone Servizi E Tecnologie S. R. L. 100.00 Equity shares Vodafone Next Generation 100.00 Ordinary shares Services Limited Viale Bianca Maria 23, 20122, Milan, Italy Malta Level 1, 20 Viaduct Harbour Avenue, Auckland, 1010, Vodafone Global Enterprise Italy 100.00 Ordinary shares SkyParks Business Centre, Malta International Airport, NewZealand S. R. L. Luqa, LQA 4000, Malta Vodafone New Zealand 100.00 Ordinary shares Via Jervis 13, 10015, Ivrea, Tourin, Italy Multi Risk Indemnity Company Limited 100.00 A shares, B shares, Foundation Limited ordinary A shares VEI S. r. l. 100.00 Partnership Level 1, Building C, 14-22 Triton Drive, Albany, New Zealand Interest shares Multi Risk Limited 100.00 Ordinary A shares, ordinary B shares TNAS Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Italia S. p. A.
100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Malta Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Nigeria Japan 3A Aja Nwachukwu Close, Ikoyi, Lagos, Nigeria Mauritius 5-2-32 Minami-azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 106-0047, Japan 3 Spar Aerospace Nigeria Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares DTOS Ltd 10th Floor, Raffles Tower, 19, Cybercity, Ebene, Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares Mauritius Japan K. K. Vodacom Business Africa Nigeria 65.00 Ordinary shares 3 3 Mobile Wallet VM1 65.00 Ordinary shares Limited and preference KAKiYa building, 9F, 2-7-17 Shin-Yokohama, Kohoku-ku, shares 3 YokohaCity, Kanagawa, 222-0033, Japan Vodacom International Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares, non cumulative ICT Lawyers & Consultants, 2nd Floor, Oakland Center, Vodafone Automotive Japan K. K 100.00 Ordinary shares preference shares Plot2940, Aguyi Ironi Street, Maitama, Abuja, Nigeria 3 C&W Worldwide Nigeria Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Mobile Wallet VM2 65.00 Ordinary shares Kenya 3 VBA Mauritius Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares The Riverfront, 4th floor, Prof. David Wasawo Drive, Norway OffRiverside Drive, Nairobi, Kenya Fifth Floor, Ebene Esplanade, 24 Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius c o EconPartner AS, Dronning Mauds gate 15, Oslo, 0250, Vodacom Business Kenya 65.00 Ordinary shares Al-Amin Investments Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Norway 3 Limited and ordinary Bshares Array Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Norway AS 100.00 Ordinary shares Asian Telecommunication 100.00 Ordinary shares 6th Floor, ABC Towers, ABC Place, Waiyaki Way, Nairobi, Investments Mauritius Limited 00100, Kenya CCII Mauritius, Inc. 100.00 Ordinary shares M-PESA Foundation 100.00 Ordinary shares CGP India Investments Ltd. 100.00 Ordinary shares M-PESA Holding Co. Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Euro Pacific Securities Ltd. 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Kenya Limited 100.00 Ordinary voting shares Mobilvest 100.00 Ordinary shares Prime Metals Ltd. 100.00 Ordinary shares Trans Crystal Ltd. 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Mauritius Ltd. 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Telecommunications 100.00 Ordinary shares India Limited Vodafone Tele-Services India 100.00 Ordinary shares Holdings Limited Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 171 % held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Portugal South Africa Sweden Av.
D. Joao II, Lote 1.04.01, 8 Piso, Parques Das Nacoes, 15 Burnside Island, 410 Jan Smuts Avenue, Craighall, 2024, c o Hellstrm advokatbyr, Box 7305, 103 90, Stockholm, 1990-093 Lisboa, Portugal South Africa Sweden Oni Way Infocomunicacoes, S. A 100.00 Ordinary shares XLink Communications 60.94 Ordinary A shares Vodafone Enterprise Sweden AB 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 Proprietary Limited Vodafone Portugal 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Switzerland Comunicacoes Pessoais, S. A.
319 Frere Road, Glenwood, 4001, South Africa BDO Ltd, Fabrikstrasse 50, CH-8031, Zurich, Switzerland Av.
da Repblica, 50 - 10, 1069-211, Lisboa, Portugal Cable and Wireless Worldwide 65.00 Ordinary shares South Africa Pty Ltd Vodafone Enterprise Switzerland AG 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Spain, S. L. U.
100.00 Branch Portugal Branch 76 Maude Street, Sandton, Johannesberg, 2196, South Africa Schoenburgstrasse 41, 3013, Bern, Switzerland Waterberg Lodge Proprietary 30.47 Ordinary shares Vodafone Luxembourg 5 S. r. l. 100.00 Branch Qatar 3 Limited Luxembourg, Zweigniederlassung P. O.
Box 27727, Doha, Qatar Bern 9 Kinross Street, Germiston South, 1401, South Africa Vodafone And Qatar Foundation L. L. C 51.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone International 1 S. a. r. l. 100.00 Branch Vodafone Holdings SA 100.00 Ordinary shares Luxembourg, Zweigniederlassung 4 Proprietary Limited Vodafone Qatar Q. S. C. 22.95 Ordinary shares Bern Vodafone Investments SA 100.00 Ordinary A shares, Via Franscini 10, 6850 Mendrisio, Switzerland Romania Proprietary Limited B ordinary no par value shares Vodafone Automotive Telematics S. A 100.00 Ordinary shares Sectorul 4, Strada Olenitei, Nr.
2, Etaj 3, Bucureti, Romania Vodacom Corporate Park, 082 Vodacom Boulevard, Zweigniederlassung Bern, Schonburgstr.
Box 466, Vodafone Shared Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Midrand, 1685, South Africa 3000 Bern 25, Switzerland Romania SRL Vouchercloud SA Pty Ltd 82.89 Common stock Vodafone Investments 100.00 Branch Sectorul 2, Strada Barbu Vcrescu, Nr.
201, Etaj 3, shares Luxembourg S. r. l. Luxembourg, Bucureti, Romania 3 Zweigniederlassung Bern GS Telecom Pty Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Romnia Technologies 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 Vodafone Luxembourg S. r. l. 100.00 Branch SRL Motifpros 1 Proprietary Limited 60.94 Ordinary shares Luxembourg, Zweigniederlassung Sectorul 2, Strada Barbu Vcrescu, Nr.
201, Etaj 1, Scarlet Ibis Investments 23 Pty 60.94 Ordinary shares Bern 3 Bucureti, Romania Limited 3 Vodafone Romnia M - Payments SRL 52.32 Ordinary shares Taiwan Vodacom Pty Limited 60.94 Ordinary shares 201 Barbu Vacarescu, 8th floor, 1st District, Bucharest, 13F, No.
Songshan District, Vodacom Business Africa Group 65.00 Ordinary shares 3 020276, Romania Taipei City 10596, Taiwan R. O. C. Pty Limited Vodafone Global Enterprise Taiwan 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Romania S. A 100.00 Nominactive Vodacom Financial Services 60.94 Ordinary shares 3 Limited shares, Ordinary Proprietary Limited shares 3 Vodacom Group Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares Tanzania, United Republic of Russian Federation Vodacom Insurance Administration 60.94 Ordinary shares 3rd Floor, Maktaba Library, ComplexBibi, Titi Mohaned 3 Company Proprietary Limited Chayanova ulitsa 14 10, stroenye 2, 125047 Moscow, Russia Road, Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania Vodacom Insurance Company 60.94 Ordinary shares Gateway Communications 65.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless CIS Svyaz LLC 100.00 Charter Capital 3 RF Limited 3 Tanzania Limited shares Vodacom International Holdings 65.00 Ordinary shares Mlimani City Office Park, Mlimani City, Sam Nujoma Road, Sadovnicheskaya st. 82, bld.
2, 115035, Moscow, 3 Pty Limited Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania RussianFederation Vodacom Life Assurance Company 60.94 Ordinary shares Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Equity shares Vodacom Tanzania Public Limited 53.40 Ordinary shares 3 RF Limited 3 Russia LLC Company Vodacom Payment Services 60.94 Ordinary shares 3 Vodacom Tanzania Limited 53.40 Ordinary shares Proprietary Limited 3 Seychelles Zanzibar Vodacom Properties No 1 60.94 Ordinary shares F20, 1st Floor, Eden Plaza, Eden Island, Seychelles Plot No 77, Kipawa industrial area, P. O.
Box 40985, Dar es 3 Proprietary Limited 3 Salaam, Tanzania Cavalry Holdings Ltd 31.85 Ordinary A and Vodacom Properties No.
2 Pty 60.94 Ordinary shares Ordinary B shares 3 Mirambo Limited 31.85 Ordinary shares 3 Limited East Africa Investment Mauritius 31.85 Ordinary A and 3 Wheatfields Investments 276 65.00 Ordinary shares Limited Ordinary B shares Turkey 3 Proprietary Limited Bykdere Cad.
No:251 Maslak, ili, stanbul, 34398, 3 Jupicol Proprietary Limited 42.65 Ordinary shares Sierra Leone Turkey 12 White Street, Brookfield, Off Railway Line, Freetown, Mezzanine Ware Proprietary 45.07 Ordinary shares Vodafone Holding A. S. 100.00 Registered shares 3 Sierra Leone Limited RF Vodafone Dagitim Hizmetleri A. S. 100.00 Registered shares 3 VBA International SL Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares Storage Technology Services Pty 31.00 Ordinary shares 3 Vodafone Net letiim Hizmetleri A.. 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Singapore Vodafone Elektronik Para five 100.00 Registered shares Spain deme Hizmetleri A.. Asia Square Tower 2, 12 Marina View, #17-01, Singapore, 018961, Singapore Antracita, 7 28045, Madrid CIF B-91204453, Spain Vodafone Telekomunikasyon A.
S 100.00 Registered shares Bluefish Apac Communications 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Automotive Iberia S. L 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Bilgi five Iletisim 100.00 Registered shares Pte.
Ltd Hizmetleri AS Avenida fide Amrica 115, 28042, Madrid, Spain Vodafone Enterprise Global 100.00 Ordinary shares T Ayazaa Kamps, Koru Yolu, Ar Teknokent Ar 3 Grupo Corporativo ONO, S. A. U.
Ltd. Binas, Maslak, stanbul, 586553, Turkey Vodafone Espana S. A. U.
100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Regional 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Teknoloji Hizmetleri A. S. 100.00 Registered shares Business Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Vodafone Holdings Europe S. L. U.
100.00 Ordinary shares Ukraine Vodafone Enterprise Singapore 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone ONO, S. A. U.
19-21, Kyiv, Ukraine Vodafone Enabler Espaa, S. L. 100.00 Ordinary shares LLC Vodafone Enterprise Ukraine 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Spain SLU 100.00 Ordinary shares Slovakia Vodafone Servicios SL.
U 100.00 Ordinary shares Namestie, SNP15, Bratislava, 811 06, Slovakia United Arab Emirates Vodafone Global Network Limited 100.00 Branch Premises 2120, Floor 21, Building AL Shatha Tower, Dubai, Slovakia Branch United Arab Emirates Vodafone Enterprise Europe UK 100.00 Branch Limited DubaiI Branch 172 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Related undertakings continued % held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Cable & Wireless a-Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Isis Telecommunications 100.00 A ordinary shares, United Kingdom Management Limited C ordinary shares, Cable & Wireless Aspac Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares B ordinary shares 1-2 Berkeley Square, 99 Berkeley Street, Glasgow, G3 7HR, Limited Scotland Jaguar Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Capital Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Thus Group Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Legend Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless CIS Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Thus Profit Sharing Trustees 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited London Hydraulic Power Company 100.00 Ordinary Limited shares, 5% Cable & Wireless Communications 100.00 A Ordinary shares, non-cumulative Thus Group Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Data Network Services Limited B Ordinary shares preference shares 5th Floor Legal Department, Group Corporate Secretariat, Cable & Wireless Communications 100.00 Ordinary shares MetroHoldings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Kingdom Street, Paddington, London, England, W2 6BY, Starclass Limited United Kingdom ML Integration Group Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Worldwide 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited ML Integration Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Pension Trustee Limited Cable & Wireless Global Business 100.00 Ordinary shares ML Integration Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Avon House, Horizon West, Canal View Road, Newbury, Services Limited Mobile Phone Centre Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Berkshire, RG15 5XF, United Kingdom Cable & Wireless Global Holding 100.00 Ordinary shares Mobiles 4 Business.
com Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Talkmobile Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Nat Comm Air Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Imperial House, 410 Donegall Square East, Belfast, Cable & Wireless Global 100.00 Ordinary shares BT15HD, Northern Ireland Telecommunication Services Netforce Group Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone NI Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Oxygen Solutions Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, Cable & Wireless Holdco Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares redeemable Leven House, 10 Lochside Place, Edinburgh Park, preference shares, Edinburgh, Scotland, EH12 9RG, United Kingdom Cable & Wireless U. K. 100.00 Ordinary shares participating Pinnacle Cellular Group Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless UK Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares preference shares Limited Pinnacle Cellular Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares P. C. P. North West Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless UK Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Scotland Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Peoples Phone Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Woodend Cellular Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Project Telecom Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Waterside 100.00 Ordinary shares Woodend Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Holdings Limited PT Network Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Woodend Group Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Worldwide 100.00 Ordinary shares PTI Telecom Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Woodend Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Rian Mobile Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Worldwide 100.00 Ordinary shares Quarry Corner, Dundonald, Belfast, BT16 1UD, Singlepoint 4U Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Services Limited NorthernIreland Singlepoint Payment Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Worldwide Voice 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Ireland Limited 100.00 A Ordinary shares, Limited Messaging Limited B Ordinary shares Stentor Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable and Wireless India Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Shuttleworh House, 21 Bridgewater Close, T. W. Telecom Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Network 65 Business Park, Hapton, Burnley, Lancashire, Cable and Wireless Nominee 100.00 Ordinary shares England, BB11 5TE, United Kingdom Limited T3 Telecommunications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Navtrak Ltd 100.00 Ordinary shares Cellops Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Talkland Airtime Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Automotive UK Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cellular Operations Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Talkland Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Staple Court, 11 Staple Inn Building, London, WC1V 7QH, Central Communications Group 100.00 Ordinary shares, Talkland International Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares United Kingdom Limited Ordinary A shares Talkland Midlands Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Gateway Communications Africa 65.00 Ordinary shares Central Telecom Northern 100.00 Ordinary shares Telecommunications Europe 100.00 Ordinary shares UK Limited Limited Limited Vodacom Business Africa Group 65.00 Ordinary shares Chelys Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 Services Limited and preference Ternhill Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, City Cable Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares shares non C redeemable preference shares 3 CT Networks Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodacom UK Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares, The Eastern Leasing Company 100.00 Ordinary shares ordinary A shares CWW Operations Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire, Dataroam Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, The Old Telecom Sales Co. Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares RG142FN, United Kingdom Ordinary A shares Thus Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares AAA Euro Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Digital Island UK Ltd 100.00 Ordinary shares AAA MCR Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Townley Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Emtel Europe Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Uniqueair Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares AAA UK Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vizzavi Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Acorn Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Apollo Submarine Cable System 100.00 Ordinary shares Voda Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Local Access Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited 1 Vodacall Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Management Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Aspective Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, Vodafone New Zealand Hedging 100.00 Ordinary shares Energis Squared Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Apreference Limited shares, Erudite Systems Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Bpreference Vodafone 2.
100.00 Ordinary shares Eurocall Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares shares and Vodafone 4 UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Cpreference Flexphone Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares shares Vodafone 5 Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares FM Associates UK Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Astec Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone 5 UK 100.00 Ordinary shares General Mobile Corporation 100.00 Ordinary shares Bluefish Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary B shares, Vodafone 6 UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited ordinary A shares, Vodafone Americas 4 100.00 Ordinary shares Generation Telecom Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares ordinary C shares, ordinary D shares Vodafone Benelux Limited 100.00 Preference shares, Global Cellular Rental Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares ordinary shares Business Serve Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares How2 Telecom Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Business Services 100.00 Ordinary shares C. S. P. Solutions Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Intercell Communications Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Cable & Wireless Access Limited 100.00 Ordinary-A Internet Network Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Business Solutions 100.00 Ordinary shares shares, ordinary-B Limited shares, series Invitation Digital Limited 82.89 Ordinary shares, A convertible series A preferred preference shares shares Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 173 % held % held % held by Group by Group by Group Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Company name companies Share class Vodafone Mobile Enterprises 100.00 A ordinary shares, United Kingdom continued United States Limited ordinary shares, Vodafone House, The Connection, Newbury, Berkshire, 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904, Vodafone Mobile Network Limited 100.00 A ordinary shares, RG142FN, United Kingdom United States ordinary shares 1 Vodafone Cellular Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Bluefish Communications Inc. 100.00 Common stock Vodafone Multimedia Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares shares Vodafone Central Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone Nominees Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 2875 Michelle Drive, Ste.
100, Irvine CA 92606, United States Vodafone Connect 2 Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Oceania Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone US Inc. 100.00 Common stock Vodafone Connect Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Old Show Ground Site 100.00 Ordinary shares shares Management Limited Vodafone Consolidated Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares 4701 Cox Road Suite 301, Glen Allen, VA 23060, United Limited Vodafone Overseas Finance 100.00 Ordinary shares States Limited Vodafone Corporate Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Americas Virginia Inc. 100.00 Common stock Vodafone Overseas Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares shares Vodafone Corporate Secretaries 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Limited Limited c o United Corporate Services Inc. 15 North East Street, Vodafone Panafon UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Kent County, Dover fide 19901, United States Vodafone DC Pension Trustee 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Company Limited Vodafone Partner Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless a-Services, Inc 100.00 Common shares Vodafone Distribution Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Property Investments 100.00 Ordinary shares Corporation Service Company, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite Limited Limited 400, Wilmington, Delaware, 19808, United States of America Vodafone Enterprise Corporate 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Retail Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Americas 100.00 Common stock Secretaries Limited Systems, Inc. shares Vodafone Retail Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Equipment 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Sales & Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Zambia Vodafone Satellite Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Enterprise Europe UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Orange Park, Plot 35185, Alick Nkhata Road, Lusaka, Zambia Limited Vodafone Specialist 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 Africonnect Zambia Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares 1 Communications Limited Vodafone Euro Hedging Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone UK Content Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Euro Hedging Two 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Europe UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone UK Investments Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone European Investments 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone UK Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone European Portal Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone Ventures Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Vodafone Finance Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Worldwide Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Finance Luxembourg 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Limited Vodafone Yen Finance Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Finance Sweden 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone-Central Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Finance UK Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodaphone Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Financial Operations 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodata Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Global Content Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Your Communications Group 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Limited Vodafone Global Enterprise 100.00 Ordinary shares c o BDO MPR Management Limited, PO Box 119, Martello Limited Court, Admiral park, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands Vodafone Group Directors 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 FB Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Trustee Limited Redwood House, St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Vodafone Group Pension Trustee 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 GY1 1WA, Channel Islands Limited Silver Stream Investments Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Group Services Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares, deferred shares P. O.
Box 119, Commerce House, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY13HB, Channel Islands Vodafone Group Services No.
2 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Limited Le Bunt Holdings Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Group Share Trustee 100.00 Ordinary shares Roseneath, The Grange, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 2QJ, 1 Limited Channel Islands Vodafone Hire Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 3 VBA Holdings Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares And non-voting Vodafone Holdings Luxembourg 100.00 Ordinary shares irredeemable Limited non-cumulative Vodafone Intermediate Enterprises 100.00 Ordinary shares preference Limited 3 VBA International Limited 65.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone International Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares And non-voting Limited irredeemable non-convertible Vodafone International Operations 100.00 Ordinary shares non-cumulative Limited Preference Vodafone Investment UK 100.00 Ordinary shares 44 Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 9WG, Channel Islands Vodafone Investments Australia 100.00 Ordinary shares Aztec Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited 1 Globe Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Investments Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares 1 Plex Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone IP Licensing Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vizzavi Finance Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Leasing Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Holdings Jersey 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone M. C. Mobile Services 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone International 2 Limited 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Jersey Dollar Holdings 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Marketing UK 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Mobile Commerce 100.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Jersey Finance 100.00 Ordinary shares Limited Vodafone Jersey Yen Holdings 100.00 Limited liability Vodafone Mobile Communications 100.00 Ordinary shares Unlimited shares Limited 174 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 33.
Related undertakings continued % held % held Associated undertakings by Group by Group and joint arrangements Company Name Companies Share class Company Name Companies Share class % held Netherlands New Zealand by Group Company Name Companies Share class Johan Huizingalaan 763 A, 3e verdieping, 1066 VH, Level 1, 20 Viaduct Harbour Avenue, Auckland, 1142, Amsterdam, Netherlands NewZealand Australia A-ccelerator B. V. 20.42 Ordinary shares TSM NZ Limited 32.50 Ordinary shares Level 1, 177 Pacific Highway, North Sydney NSW 2060, A-ccelerator Holding B. V 20.42 Ordinary shares Level 5, 151 Victoria Street West, Auckland 1010, Australia NewZealand SBC SMART CITY 1517 B. V. 29.20 Ordinary shares H3ga Properties No 3 Pty Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Centurion GSM Limited 25.00 Ordinary shares Boeingavenue 53, 1119PE, Schiphol-Rijk, Netherlands Mobileworld Communications 50.00 Ordinary shares VodafoneZiggo Group Holding B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Pty Limited Portugal Mobileworld Operating Pty Ltd 50.00 Ordinary shares Monitorweg 1, 1322 BJ Almere, Netherlands Avenida D. Joo II Lote 1.03.23 Parque das Naes, 1998- 017, Lisboa, Portugal Vodafone Australia Pty Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares XB Facilities B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Celfocus Solucoes Informaticas 45.00 Ordinary shares Barbara Strozzilaan 101, 1083 HN Amsterdam, Netherlands Vodafone Foundation Australia 50.00 Ordinary shares Para Telecomunicacoes S. A Pty Limited HBO Nederland Coperatief U.
25.00 Partnershhip Rua Pedro e Ins, Lote 2.08.01, 1990-075 Parque das Vodafone Hutchison Australia Pty 50.00 Ordinary shares interest Waes, Lisboa, Portugal Limited HBO Netherlands Distribution B. V. 25.00 Ordinary shares Sport TV Portugal S. A 25.00 Nominative shares Vodafone Hutchison Finance Pty 50.00 Ordinary shares Simon Carmiggeltstraat 6, 1011DJ Amsterdam, Netherlands Limited Romania Vodafone Financial Services B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Hutchison Receivables 50.00 Ordinary shares Bulevardul DIMITRIE POMPEI, Nr.
10A, CLADIREA Pty Limited Atoomweg 100, 3542 AB Utrecht, Netherlands CONECTIII, MO, Bucuresti, Sector 2, Romania Vodafone Network Pty Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Amsterdamse Beheeren 50.00 Ordinary shares Netgrid Telecom SRL 50.00 Ordinary shares  B. V. Vodafone Pty Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Esprit Telecom B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Russian Federation Czech Republic FinCo Partner 1 B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares bld.
3, 11, Promishlennaya Street, Moscow, 115516, nmst Junkovch 2808 2, Stodlky, Prague 5, 15500, LGE HoldCo V B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares RussianFederation Czech Republic LGE HoldCo VI B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Autoconnex Limited 35.00 Ordinary shares COOP Mobil s. r. o.
33.33 Ordinary shares LGE Holdco VII B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Jankovcova 1037 49, 170 00 Praha 7-Holeovice, Czech South Africa LGE HoldCo VIII B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Republic Building 13 Ground Floor East, Thornhill, Office Park, Torenspits II B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares HBO Netherlands Channels sro 25.00 Member interest 94Bekker Road, Vorna Valley X67, Midrand, 1685, SouthAfrica UPC Nederland Holding I B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Egypt Number Portability Company 20.00 Ordinary shares UPC Nederland Holding II B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares 3 Proprietary Limited 23 Kasr El Nil St. Cairo, Egypt, 11211 UPC Nederland Holding III B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Wataneya Telecommunications 50.00 Ordinary shares United Kingdom Vodafone Nederland Holding I B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares S. A. E 83 Baker Street, London, W1U 6AG, United Kingdom Vodafone Nederland Holding II B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Germany Digital Mobile Spectrum Limited 25.00 Ordinary shares Vodafone Nederland Holding III B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Willy-Brandt-Platz 6, 81829 Munich, Germany The Exchange Building 1330, Arlington Business Park, Ziggo B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Theale, Berkshire, RG7 4SA, United Kingdom Device Insight 20.30 Preferred B shares Ziggo Deelnemingen B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Cornerstone Telecommunications 50.00 Ordinary shares Ziggo Financing Partnership 50.00 Partnership Greece Infrastructure Limited interest 4345 Valtetsiou Str.
Athens, Greece 62-65, Chandos Place, London, WC2N 4LP, United Kingdom Ziggo Finance 2 B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Safenet N. P, A.
24.97 Ordinary shares Cable & Wireless Trade Mark 50.00 Ordinary B shares Ziggo Holding B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Management Limited India Ziggo Netwerk II B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares 33 Holborn, London, EC1N 2HT, United Kingdom Bharti Crescent, 1 Nelson Mandela Road, Vasant Kunj, Ziggo Services B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Mobile by Sainsburys Limited 50.00 Ordinary shares Phase-II, New Delhi 110070, India Ziggo Services Employment B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Indus Towers Limited 42.00 Equity shares United States Ziggo Services Netwerk 2 B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares A-19, Mohan Co-operative Industrial Estate, Mathura Road, 2711 Centerville Road, Suite 400, Wilmington, Ziggo Zakelijk Services B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares New Delhi, New Delhi, Delhi, 110044, India fide 19808 Delaware, United States ZUM B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares FireFly Networks Limited 50.00 Equity shares LG Financing Partnership 50.00 Partnership Winschoterdiep 60, 9723 AB Groningen, Netherlands interest Italy Ziggo Financing Partnership 50.00 Partnership Zesko B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares interest Via per Carpi 26 B - 42015 Correggio RE, Italy Ziggo Bond Company B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares VND S. p. A 35.00 Ordinary shares Ziggo Netwerk B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares Notes: 1 Entities directly held by Vodafone Group Plc.
Media Park boulevard 2, 1217 WE Hilversum, Netherlands Kenya 2 Trades as Vodafone Hungary Mobile Telecommunications Liberty Global Content 50.00 Ordinary shares Safaricom, P O Box 46350, 00100, Nairobi, Kenya Company Limited.
Netherlands B. V. 5,6 3 Shareholding is indirect through Vodacom Group Limited.
Safaricom Limited 40.00 Ordinary shares Avenue Ceramique 300, 6221 KX, Maastricht, Netherlands The indirect shareholding is calculated using the 65.0% ownership interest in Vodacom.
Luxembourg Vodafone Libertel B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares 4 The Group has rights that enable it to control the strategic 14 rue Edward Steichen, Luxembourg, 2540, Luxembourg Assendorperdijk 2, 8012 EH Zwolle, Netherlands and operating decisions of Vodafone Qatar Q. S. C. and Vodacom Congo RDC S. A..
The Group is assessing Tomorrow Street SCA 50.00 Ordinary shares Zoranet Connectivity Services B. V. 50.00 Ordinary shares the impact of changes to company law in Qatar, which will be applicable in the financial year ending 31 March 2018, on its ability to exercise control over Vodafone Qatar Q. S. C. 5 The Group also holds two non-voting shares.
6 At 31 March 2017 the fair value of Safaricom Limited was KES271 billion 6,489 million based on the closing quoted share price on the Nairobi Stock Exchange.
7 Shareholding is indirect through Vodafone Kabel Deutschland GmbH.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 175 The table below shows selected financial data in respect of subsidiaries that have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group.
Vodafone Egypt Vodacom Group Limited Telecommunications S. A. E. Vodafone Qatar Q. S. C. Restated Restated Restated 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Summary comprehensive income information Revenue 5,294 5,325 1,333 1,641 510 510 Profit loss for the financial year 768 754 194 305 67 116 Other comprehensive expense income 10 39 Total comprehensive income expense 758 793 194 305 67 116 Other financial information Profit loss for the financial year allocated to non-controlling interests 257 263 88 139 52 89 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 258 271 152 3 23 Summary financial position information Non-current assets 6,213 5,422 1,038 1,581 1,550 1,564 Current assets 2,023 1,649 352 872 137 122 Total assets 8,236 7,071 1,390 2,453 1,687 1,686 Non-current liabilities 2,368 2,005 25 78 266 259 Current liabilities 1,825 1,513 656 895 226 239 Total assets less total liabilities 4,043 3,553 709 1,480 1,195 1,188 Equity shareholders funds 3,379 2,956 433 896 275 273 Non-controlling interests 664 597 276 584 920 915 Total equity 4,043 3,553 709 1,480 1,195 1,188 Statement of cash flows Net cash flow from operating activities 1,702 1,575 520 661 134 103 Net cash flow from investing activities 790 864 609 321 93 87 Net cash flow from financing activities 778 798 328 22 32 21 Net cash flow 134 87 417 318 9 5 Cash and cash equivalents brought forward 464 681 619 430 31 39 Exchange gain loss on cash and cash equivalents 21 130 145 129 3 3 Cash and Cash Equivalents 619 464 57 619 43 31 The voting rights held by the Group equal the Groups percentage shareholding as shown on pages 168 to 174.
176 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 34.
Subsidiaries exempt from audit The following UK subsidiaries will take advantage of the audit exemption set out within section479A of the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Name Registration number Name Registration number Cable & Wireless Access Limited 4005262 Vodafone Enterprise Europe UK Limited 3137479 Cable & Wireless a-Services Limited 3930865 Vodafone Euro Hedging Limited 3954207 Cable & Wireless Aspac Holdings Limited 4705342 Vodafone Euro Hedging Two 4055111 Cable & Wireless Capital Limited 6702535 Vodafone European Investments 3961908 Cable & Wireless CIS Services Limited 2964774 Vodafone European Portal Limited 3973442 Cable & Wireless Communications Starclass Limited 1018703 Vodafone Europe UK 5798451 Cable & Wireless Europe Holdings Limited 4659719 Vodafone Finance Luxembourg Limited 5754479 Cable & Wireless Global Business Services Limited 3537591 Vodafone Finance Sweden 2139168 Cable & Wireless Global Holding Limited 3740694 Vodafone Finance UK Limited 3922620 Cable and Wireless Nominee Limited 3249884 Vodafone Financial Operations 4016558 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Limited 7029206 Vodafone Global Content Services Limited 4064873 Cable & Wireless Worldwide Voice Messaging Limited 1981417 Vodafone Holdings Luxembourg Limited 4200970 Cable & Wireless UK Holdings Limited 3840888 Vodafone IP Licensing Limited 6846238 City Cable Holdings Limited 1042087 Vodafone Intermediate Enterprises Limited 3869137 Digital Island UK Limited 3730837 Vodafone International 2 Limited 100403 Energis Communications Limited 2630471 Vodafone International Holdings Limited 2797426 Energis Ireland Limited NI035793 Vodafone International Operations Limited 2797438 Energis Squared Limited 3037442 Vodafone Investments Australia Limited 2011978 Internet Network Services Limited 3047165 Vodafone Investments Limited 1530514 Jaguar Communications Limited 1689995 Vodafone Investment UK 5798385 Legend Communications Limited 3923166 Vodafone Marketing UK 6858585 MetroHoldings Limited 3511122 Vodafone Mobile Communications Limited 3942221 ML Integration Group Limited 3252903 Vodafone Mobile Enterprises Limited 3961390 ML Integration Services Limited 4087040 Vodafone Mobile Network Limited 3961482 Stentor Communications Limited 3224579 Vodafone New Zealand Hedging Limited 4158469 The Eastern Leasing Company Limited 1672832 Vodafone Nominees Limited 1172051 Thus Group Limited SC226738 Vodafone Oceania Limited 3973427 Thus Group Holdings Limited SC192666 Vodafone Overseas Holdings Limited 2809758 Vizzavi Finance Limited 80499 Vodafone Panafon UK 6326918 Vodafone 2 4083193 Vodafone Property Investments Limited 3903420 Vodafone 4 UK 6357658 Vodafone UK Limited 2227940 Vodafone 5 Limited 6688527 Vodafone Worldwide Holdings Limited 3294074 Vodafone 5 UK 2960479 Vodafone Yen Finance Limited 4373166 Vodafone Americas 4 6389457 Voda Limited 1847509 Vodafone Benelux Limited 4200960 Vodaphone Limited 2373469 Vodafone Cellular Limited 896318 Vodata Limited 2502373 Vodafone Consolidated Holdings Limited 5754561 Your Communications Group Limited 4171876 Vodafone Enterprise Equipment Limited 1648524 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 177 Other unaudited financial information Prior year operating results This section presents our operating performance for the 2016 financial year compared to the 2015 financial year, providing commentary on how the revenue and the adjusted EBITDA performance of the Group and its operating segments developed, with all amounts presented restated into euros following the change in the Groups presentation currency and include the results of Vodafone India as discontinued operations following theagreement to combine it with Idea Cellular.
1,2 Group 3 % change Europe AMAP Other Eliminations 2016 2015 m m m m m m Reported Organic Revenue 36,462 11,891 1,567 110 49,810 48,385 2.9 2.1 Service revenue 33,381 10,043 1,303 109 44,618 43,635 2.3 1.1 Other revenue 3,081 1,848 264 1 5,192 4,750 Adjusted EBITDA 10,485 3,706 36 14,155 13,702 3.3 2.3 Adjusted operating profit loss 1,927 1,941 39 3,829 4,040 5.2 3.8 Adjustments for: Impairment loss 569 Restructuring costs 316 204 Amortisation of acquired customer bases and brand intangible assets 1,338 1,617 Other expense 286 146 Operating profit 1,320 2,073 Notes: 1 With effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups presentation currency was changed from pounds sterling to the euro to better align with the geographic split of the Groups operations.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been restated into euros and include the results of Vodafone India as discontinued operations following the agreement to combine it with Idea Cellular.
Group revenue and service revenue includes the results of Europe, AMAP, Other which includes the results of partner markets and eliminations.
2016 results reflect average foreign exchange rates of 1:0.73, 1:INR72.3, 1:ZAR15.21, 1:TKL3.14 and 1: EGP8.66.
2 Alternative performance measures are non-GAAP measures that are presented to provide readers with additional financial information that is regularly reviewed by management and should not be viewed in isolation or as an alternative to the equivalent GAAP measure.
See Alternative performance measures on page 205 for reconciliations to the closest respective equivalent GAAP measure and Definition of terms on page 218 for further details.
3 The Other segment primarily represents the results of the partner markets and the net result of unallocated central Group costs.
Revenue Operating profit Group revenue increased 2.9% to 49.8 billion and service revenue Adjusted operating profit excludes certain income and expenses that increased 2.3% to 44.6 billion.
Reported growth includes the full we have identified separately to allow their effect on the results of the year impact from the acquisitions of Hellas Online HOL and Cobra Group to be assessed see page 205.
The items that are included Automotive Cobra in the prior year.
in operating profit but are excluded from adjusted operating profit are discussed below.
In Europe, organic service revenue declined 0.6% reflecting continued competitive pressures in a number of markets, with improving trends An impairment loss of 569 million was recognised in the 2016 throughout the year.
Further detail is provided in note 4 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Restructuring costs In AMAP, organic service revenue increased by 8.0% continuing its of 316 million 2015: 204 million have been incurred to improve sustained track record of strong organic growth.
future business performance and reduce costs.
Adjusted EBITDA Amortisation of intangible assets in relation to customer bases and Group adjusted EBITDA increased 3.3% to 14.2 billion driven by organic brands are recognised under accounting rules after we acquire growth in Europe and AMAP and the positive impact of the acquisitions businesses and decreased to 1,338 million 2015: 1,617 million of HOL and Cobra and foreign exchange movements.
due to the acquisition of Ono.
On an organic basis, adjusted EBITDA rose 2.3% and the Including the above items, operating profit decreased by 0.8 billion Groups adjusted EBITDA margin stabilised at 28.4%.
to 1.3 billion as the 0.6 billion impairment charge, 0.5 billion higher depreciation and amortisation charges and 0.1 billion increase in restructuring costs were partly offset by a 0.4 billion increase in adjusted EBITDA.
Note: All amounts in the Operating Results section marked with an represent organic growth which presents performance on a comparable basis, both in terms of merger and acquisition activity and movements in foreign exchange rates.
Organic growth is an alternative performance measure.
See Alternative performance measures on page 205 for further details and reconciliations to the respective closest equivalent GAAP measure.
M&A activity, including HOL and Germany Cobra, contributed a 1.3 percentage point positive impact and foreign Service revenue declined 0.4% for the year, but returned to growth exchange movements contributed a 1.6 percentage point positive in Q4 Q3: -0.4% : Q4: 1.6% led by improvements in consumer mobile impact.
On an organic basis, service revenue decreased by 0.6%, and fixed trends and aided by an accounting reclassification in fixed.
reflecting continued competitive pressures in a number of markets.
Consumer contract revenue Adjusted EBITDA increased 4.0%, including a 1.3 percentage point stabilised in the year, supported by consistent growth in contract net positive impact from M&A activity and a 1.0 percentage point positive additions 594,000 for the year.
This performance has been driven impact from foreign exchange movements.
On an organic basis adjusted by an increased focus on direct channels and our Otelo second brand: EBITDA increased 1.7% driven by good cost control in a number of our during Q4, higher competition in indirect channels weighed on our markets, as well as the benefits of acquisition integrations.
The Enterprise market became increasingly competitive during the year, leading to a deteriorating revenue trend Other activity as falling ARPU more than offset good contract wins.
We have made Reported including Foreign Organic further strong progress on network investment, with 87% 4G coverage change M&A exchange change % pps pps % and dropped call rates declining 25% year-on-year to an all-time low Revenue Europe 3.3 1.3 1.6 0.4 of 0.44%.
In November, the independent Connect test confirmed the premium quality of our voice network in Germany and a strong second Service revenue and most improved data position.
Germany 0.5 0.1 0.4 Italy 0.8 0.8 Fixed service revenue growth was 1.5%, with continued strong growth in cable and a slowing decline in DSL-related revenue.
Cable net adds UK 6.1 0.4 6.8 0.3 growth continued to be strong throughout the year, supplemented Spain 5.4 8.9 3.5 by ongoing migrations from the DSL base: in the second half of the year Other Europe 3.5 1.9 0.1 1.5 DSL net additions also turned positive, with growing customer demand Europe 2.4 1.5 1.5 0.6 for VDSL.
Broadband ARPU was down year-on-year in a promotional Adjusted EBITDA market, with improvements in cable offset by DSL declines, although the pace of decline began to moderate during H2.
The integration Germany 2.1 2.1 of KDG has been completed: we expect cost synergies to meet the initial Italy 3.0 0.1 3.1 targets set out at the time of acquisition, and now expect further upside UK 1.9 4.7 5.4 1.2 potential longer-term.
In November, we launched Vodafone Red One, Spain 24.6 20.1 0.3 4.2 our fully integrated fixed, mobile and TV service combining high speed Other Europe 0.1 1.3 0.1 1.5 mobile and fixed: as of 31 March 2016 we had 54,000 customers.
Europe 4.0 1.3 1.0 1.7 Adjusted EBITDA grew 2.1%, with adjusted EBITDA margin improving Adjusted operating profit by 0.8 percentage points.
The impact of lower revenues and Europe 13.0 0.4 0.5 12.9 increased Project Spring network opex was more than offset by opex efficiencies including KDG synergies, savings in commercial costs aided by our increased focus on direct channels and a change in commission processes.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 179 Italy Adjusted EBITDA grew 1.2%, with a 0.2 percentage point increase Service revenue declined 0.8% for the year, but returned to growth in the adjusted EBITDA margin driven by continued operational in Q4 Q3: -0.3% : Q4: 1.3%, aided by the leap-year benefit.
Reported adjusted EBITDA benefited from one-off The mobile business is on a steady recovery path, while fixed settlements with other network operators in the first half of the year.
performance continues to be positive despite increased competition Spain in recent months.
Service revenue declined 3.5% Q3: -3.1% : Q4: -3.2%, with Mobile service revenue declined 1.1%, as a recovery in ARPU supported mobile revenue recovering steadily despite the negative effect by prepaid price increases only partially offset the year-on-year decline of handset financing, and continued positive momentum in fixed.
Mobile number portability in the market has Excluding handset financing effects, service revenues declined reduced in recent quarters and the customer base decline stabilised by 0.3% in the year.
during the year, aided by market-leading NPS scores in mobile following Mobile service revenue fell 8.0%.
The contract customer base our Project Spring investments.
Consumer trends improved faster continued to grow in a more stable market, despite increased than Enterprise, where competitive intensity has increased in H2.
promotional activity around the start of the new football season.
We are As of 31 March 2016 we have 95% population coverage on our 4G seeing signs that ARPU is beginning to stabilise, aided by our marketnetwork and 6.5 million 4G customers September 2015: 4.0 million.
leading NPS scores in mobile and our more-for-more pricing strategy, Fixed service revenue was up 1.2%, driven by sustained commercial in which customers receive higher data allowances and additional momentum.
We added 168,000 broadband customers during the year, features e. g. free European roaming together with an increase in the a strong performance, and in Q4 50% of our gross adds have taken monthly tariff.
Our 4G population coverage reached 91% at 31 March a fibre-based service.
Of our base of 2.0 million broadband customers, 2016 and we have 5.4 million 4G customers.
We have now built out our own fibre Fixed service revenue rose 7.8%, supported by consistent growth network to over 16,000 cabinets, enabling us to reach 3.6 million in broadband net additions.
The integration of Ono has proceeded households.
Our high speed broadband roll-out in Italy will be enhanced successfully and we have already achieved 100% of the original by our commercial agreement with Enel, which plans to roll out 240 million of cost and capex synergies targeted.
We now expect Fibre-To-The-Home FTTH to 224 cities nationwide, providing access to be able to deliver 300 million of annualised run-rate savings on competitive commercial terms.
In these areas Enel will be our over theoriginal timeframe.
In part this reflects the very successful exclusive fibre partner going forward.
launch in May of Vodafone One, our fully integrated cable, mobile Adjusted EBITDA was up 3.1%, as we successfully offset the decline and TV service, which has already reached 1.5 million customers.
in service revenue with savings in commercial costs and operating Including our joint fibre network build with Orange, we now reach expenses.
The adjusted EBITDA margin was stable year-on-year due 8.5 million premises with cable or fibre.
Our recent agreement principally to higher handset revenues.
with Mediapro together with the wholesale obligations imposed on the incumbent provide us with access to a full range of premium UK TV channels for the coming years, albeit at an increased cost.
Service revenue declined 0.3% for the year Q3: -0.7% : Q4: -0.1%, with improving trends in fixed offset by a slowdown in mobile, reflecting Adjusted EBITDA increased 4.2% year-on-year with a 1.3 percentage operational challenges following a billing system migration.
Q4 growth point increase in the adjusted EBITDA margin, as strong cost control, benefited from strong carrier services activity: excluding this, underlying the benefit to margin from handset financing and the cost synergies trends were stable.
The organic growth rate for the year excludes onefrom the Ono acquisition more than offset rising TV costs.
off settlements with other network operators in Q2.
Other Europe Mobile service revenue declined 0.7%.
Contract customer growth Service revenue rose 1.5% Q3: 1.6% : Q4: 2.1%, with all markets slowed in Q4, impacted partly by higher churn in relation to the except Greece achieving growth during the year.
In Q4, Romania 7.7%, billing system migration.
Revenue trends were also impacted by the Portugal 3.5% and the Czech Republic enjoyed an improvement pricing and usage of 08XX numbers following the introduction in top-line growth.
of Non-Geographic Call Services regulation, and a focus on giving In the Netherlands, service revenue increased 0.3%, with growth customers more control of their out-of-bundle data spend.
As a result, moving into decline during H2 Q3: 0.2% : Q4: -1.3% as continued in-bundle revenue and demand for data add-ons continued to grow.
gains in fixed partly aided by a Q4 accounting reclassification Enterprise mobile trends remained relatively stable despite increased wereoffset by a decline in mobile contract ARPU.
National 4G coverage reached 91% based on the OFCOM definition, and 99.5% in London: based on our estimations, 4G coverage In Portugal, fixed service revenue continues to grow strongly and was 84%, and despite some delays the pace of 4G coverage expansion mobile is recovering as ARPU and churn pressure from the shift towards in conjunction with our network sharing partner is now accelerating.
convergent pricing begins to moderate.
Our FTTH network now reaches We achieved significant growth in 4G customers, with 7.0 million at the 2.4 million homes.
Ireland returned to service revenue growth in Q2, period end September 2015: 5.3 million.
with strong momentum in fixed and an improving trend in mobile.
The initial 4G roll-out is complete with 95% population coverage.
Excluding carrier services, fixed service revenue grew 2.4% in the second half of the year including In Greece macroeconomic conditions remained a drag, however an improving performance in Enterprise.
After regional trials during good cost control led to improved margins.
The integration of HOL the summer, we began to offer our consumer broadband service is progressing according to plan.
to 24 million premises across the UK 98% of BTs fibre footprint Adjusted EBITDA declined 1.5%, with a 1.0 percentage point decline in October, securing 38,000 customers by 31 March 2016.
Our new in adjusted EBITDA margin, mainly driven by lower margins in Portugal TV service is in field trials with plans to launch later in the current and Romania.
180 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Other unaudited financial information continued Prior year operating results continued Africa, Middle East and Asia-Pacific % change Vodacom Other AMAP Eliminations AMAP m m m m Reported Organic Year ended 31 March 2016 restated Revenue 5,325 6,566 11,891 2.5 8.1 Service revenue 4,419 5,624 10,043 2.8 8.0 Other revenue 906 942 1,848 Adjusted EBITDA 2,028 1,678 3,706 3.4 9.0 Adjusted operating profit 1,356 585 1,941 11.2 19.9 Adjusted EBITDA margin 38.1% 25.6% 31.2% Year ended 31 March 2015 restated Revenue 5,539 6,061 11,600 3.6 4.6 Service revenue 4,451 5,319 9,770 1.5 2.3 Other revenue 1,088 742 1,829 Adjusted EBITDA 1,949 1,635 3,584 1.0 1.8 Adjusted operating profit 1,314 432 1,746 9.5 9.7 Adjusted EBITDA margin 35.2% 27.0% 30.9% Revenue increased 2.5%, with strong organic growth partly offset Vodacom by a 4.8 percentage point adverse impact from foreign exchange Vodacom Group service revenue increased 5.4% Q3: 7.2% : Q4: 6.3%, movements.
On an organic basis, service revenue was up 8.0% driven supported by strong momentum in both South Africa and the by growth in the customer base, increased voice and data usage, International operations.
and continued good commercial execution.
In South Africa, organic service revenue grew 4.7% Q3: 7.2% : Adjusted EBITDA increased 3.4%, including a 5.0 percentage point Q4: 6.5%, with the consumer and enterprise businesses both adverse impact from foreign exchange movements.
On an organic basis, performing well.
We continued to focus on building brand and network adjusted EBITDA grew 9.0%, driven by growth in all major markets.
differentiation, with our performance driven by strong demand for data.
We further enhanced our leading network position, more than doubling Other activity our LTE 4G sites to over 6,000, taking coverage to 58.2% on LTE 4G Reported including Foreign Organic change M&A exchange change and 98.9% on 3G.
Data revenue growth remained strong at 18.8% % pps pps % in Q4 and data is now 36.3% of local service revenue.
Our pricing Revenue AMAP 2.5 0.8 4.8 8.1 transformation strategy is making good progress, with 85% of contract customers now on integrated price plans and churn falling to our lowest Service revenue levels at 6.9% in Q4.
Total bundle sales reached 1.1 billion, supported Vodacom 0.7 6.1 5.4 by our Just 4 U personalised offers.
Other AMAP 5.7 1.8 2.6 10.1 Service revenue growth in Vodacoms International operations outside AMAP 2.8 1.0 4.2 8.0 South Africa was 10.0%, driven by increased voice revenue as a result Adjusted EBITDA of pricing strategies and bundle offerings, data take-up and M-Pesa.
Vodacom 4.1 8.6 12.7 Active data customers reached 10.1 million, 37% of total customers, Other AMAP 2.6 1.3 0.6 4.5 and active M-Pesa customers totalled 6.8 million in Q4, all benefiting from sustained network investment.
AMAP 3.4 0.6 5.0 9.0 Vodacom Group adjusted EBITDA increased 12.7%, significantly Adjusted operating profit faster than revenues, with a 3.6 percentage point improvement AMAP 11.2 1.6 7.1 19.9 in adjusted EBITDA margin.
This strong performance partly reflected a change in accounting for certain transactions in the indirect channel, which depressed equipment sales and total revenues with no impact on adjusted EBITDA.
Excluding this effect, adjusted EBITDA margins rose driven by operating leverage, tight cost control and a tailwind from foreign exchange gains.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 181 1 Other AMAP India Service revenue increased 10.1% Q3: 10.8% : Q4: 12.1%, with strong On 20 March 2017, Vodafone announced the agreement to combine growth in Turkey, Egypt and Ghana partially offset by a decline in Qatar.
its subsidiary, Vodafone India excluding its 42% stake in Indus Towers, Service revenue in Turkey was up 19.7%, reflecting continued strong with Idea Cellular, with the combined company to be jointly controlled growth in consumer contract and Enterprise revenue, and we launched by Vodafone and the Aditya Birla Group.
The results of Vodafone India 4G services in April 2016.
Fixed momentum was strong, almost are detailed below.
quadrupling the fixed broadband customer base to 363,000 at the end % change 2016 2015 of the period.
m m Reported Organic Revenue 6,161 5,502 12.0 In Egypt, service revenue was up 8.9% driven by continued strong Service revenue 6,135 5,480 12.0 5.0 growth in data.
Other revenue 26 22 New Zealand returned to modest growth, with solid mobile contract Direct costs 1,835 1,714 customer trends and improving fixed ARPU.
Customer costs 287 245 Adjusted EBITDA grew 4.5%, with a 2.1 percentage point contraction Operating expenses 2,224 1,908 in adjusted EBITDA margin.
A strong revenue performance and Adjusted EBITDA 1,815 1,635 11.0 4.1 improved margins in Turkey were partly offset by higher costs for Depreciation and amortisation 1,276 1,075 imported goods post foreign exchange rate devaluations across Adjusted operating profit 539 560 3.9 the region.
Adjustments for: Associates and joint ventures Other 116 104 Indus Towers, the Indian towers company in which Vodafone has a 42% Operating profit 423 456 interest, achieved local currency revenue growth of 5.8%.
Indus Towers Adjusted EBITDA margin 29.5% 29.7% owned 119,881 towers as at 31 March 2016, with a tenancy ratio of 2.25.
Note: Indus Towers contribution to the Groups adjusted operating profit was 1 The results of Vodafone India are classified as discontinued operations in accordance 101 million.
Safaricom, Vodafones 40% associate which is the leading mobile Service revenue increased 5.0% Q3: 2.3% : Q4: 5.3% as customer operator in Kenya, saw local currency service revenue growth of 13.8% base growth and strong demand for 3G data was partially offset for the year, with local currency adjusted EBITDA up 16.8%, driven by a number of regulatory changes, including MTR cuts, roaming price by an increase in the customer base leading to growth across all caps and an increase in service tax.
Excluding these impacts, service revenue streams, predominantly mobile data and M-Pesa.
Q4 growth recovered versus Q3 as voice is now in 20 out of 47 counties.
price competition moderated during the quarter and regulatory impacts began to reduce in March.
Vodafone Hutchison Australia VHA, in which Vodafone owns a 50% stake, is performing solidly in an intensely competitive environment, We added 14.1 million customers during the year, taking the total with service revenues excluding MTR impact returning to growth after to 197.9 million.
Growth in total minutes of use continued, but this was five years in decline.
Adjusted EBITDA growth was driven by an increase offset by a decline in average revenue per minute as a result of ongoing in revenue and improved cost management.
Data growth continues to be very strong, with data usage over the network up 64% year-on-year, and the active data customer base increasing by 3.8 million to 67.5 million.
The 3G customer base grew to 27.4 million, up 41.4% year-on-year, and smartphone penetration in our four biggest urban areas is now 52.8%.
In Q4, browsing revenue represented 19.2% of local service revenue, up from 14.9% in the equivalent quarter last year.
Since the launch of Project Spring we have added over 37,700 new 3G sites, taking the total to 55,500 and our population coverage to 95% of target urban areas.
We have launched 4G in five key circles and plan to expand to cover over 60% of our data revenues in the coming year, ahead of the upcoming spectrum auction.
Our M-Pesa business continues to expand, with 1.3 million active customers at March 2016, and approximately 120,000 agents.
In August, the Reserve Bank of India granted us in principle approval to set up a payments bank.
Adjusted EBITDA grew 4.1%, with a 0.2 percentage point deterioration in adjusted EBITDA margin as the benefits of service revenue growth were offset by the ongoing increase in operating costs related to Project Spring, higher acquisition costs and the translation effects of non-rupee operating costs.
