Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies The statement of comprehensive income of the company has General information been omitted from these financial statements in accordance Caledonia Investments plc is an investment trust company with section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. domiciled in the United Kingdom and incorporated in England in 1928, under the Companies Acts 1908 to 1917.
The address of its Under the UK Corporate Governance Code and applicable registered office is 2nd Floor Stratton House, 5 Stratton Street, regulations, the directors are required to satisfy themselves London W1J 8LA.
The ordinary shares of the company are that it is reasonable to presume that the company is a going premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue These financial statements were authorised for issue by the in operational existence for the foreseeable future, as directors on 25 May 2017. discussed on page 66.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, going concern basis of preparing the financial statements.
as this is the currency of the primary economic environment Adopted IFRSs in which Caledonia operates.
In the current year, the group has not adopted any new Key sources of estimation uncertainty standards or interpretations.
Fair values of financial instruments IFRSs not yet applied Most of the groups financial instruments are measured at At the date of approval of these financial statements, the fair value in the statement of financial position and it is usually following standards, which have not been applied in these possible to determine their fair values within a reasonable financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments For actively traded financial instruments, quoted market prices are readily available.
For other financial instruments, such as IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers unlisted securities, valuation techniques are used to estimate IFRS 16 Leases fair value.
Valuation techniques make maximum use of market inputs, including reference to the current fair values of The directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards in instruments that are substantially the same subject to future periods in their issued form will have no material impact appropriate adjustments.
Fair value estimates are made at a specific point in time, based Assessment as investment entity on market conditions and information about the financial Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within instrument.
These estimates are subjective in nature and IFRS 10 are required to account for most investments in involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgement controlled entities as held at fair value through profit or loss.
and therefore cannot be determined with precision.
Subsidiaries that provide investment related services or engage in permitted investment related activities with investees Significant accounting policies continue to be consolidated unless they are also investment entities.
The board has concluded that the company meets the Basis of accounting definition of an investment entity.
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Basis of consolidation adopted by the EU and therefore the group financial statements In accordance with the IFRS 10 IAS 28 Investment entities comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
IFRSs comprise amendments, the consolidated financial statements include the accounting standards issued by the International Accounting financial statements of the company and service entities Standards Board and its predecessor body as well as controlled by the company made up to the reporting date.
interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Control is achieved where the company has the power over the Interpretations Committee and its predecessor body.
potential investee as a result of voting or other rights, has rights to positive or negative variable returns from its involvement The financial statements have been prepared on an historical with the investee and has the ability to use its power over the cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial investee to affect significantly the amount of its returns.
Where presentational guidance set out in the Statement of Recommended Practice: Financial Statements of Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP issued by the Association of Investment Companies in January 2017 is consistent with the requirements of IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the directors have sought to prepare the financial statements on a basis compliant with the recommendations of the SORP.
78 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 Financials TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Foreign currencies Operating leases Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the Employee benefits reporting date are translated to the functional currency at the Pension schemes foreign exchange rate ruling at the reporting date.
NonPayments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of expense as they fall due.
historical cost in a foreign currency are translated to the functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated is determined using the projected unit credit method, with in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated actuarial valuations being carried out at each reporting date.
to the functional currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at Re-measurement gains and losses are recognised in full in the the dates the fair values were determined.
period in which they occur in other comprehensive income.
In the financial statements, foreign exchange gains or losses are Past service cost is recognised immediately in the period of a recognised in capital or revenue reserve depending on whether plan amendment.
the gain or loss is of a capital or revenue nature respectively.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Statement Income of financial position represents the present value of the defined Dividends receivable on equity shares are recognised as benefit obligations as reduced by the fair value of scheme revenue when the shareholders right to receive payment has assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the been established, normally the ex-dividend date.
Where no present value of available refunds and reductions in future ex-dividend date is available, dividends receivable on or before contributions to the plan.
the period end are treated as revenue for the period.
Provision Profit sharing and bonus plans is made for any dividends not expected to be received.
The group recognises a liability and an expense for bonuses and The fixed returns on debt securities, loans and non-equity profit sharing, based on a formula that takes into consideration shares are recognised on an effective interest rate basis, which the profit attributable to the companys shareholders after is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts certain adjustments.
The group recognises a provision where through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets contractually obliged or where there is a past practice that has net carrying amount.
Rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the Share-based payments lease term.
The group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share-based payments are The companys share of net income from limited partnerships is measured at fair value at the date of grant and the fair value is recognised as revenue when received.
expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based Where uncertainty arises over the collectability of an amount on the groups estimate of the number of shares that will already included in income, the uncollectible amount or the eventually vest.
amount in respect of which the recovery has ceased to be Where employees of a subsidiary are granted rights to the probable, is recognised as an expense.
When the uncertainty over equity instruments of its parent as consideration for the collectability is removed, normally on receipt, the income is services provided to the subsidiary, the subsidiary recognises recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income.
an equity-settled share-based payment transaction expense Expenses with a corresponding increase recognised in equity All expenses are accounted for on an accrual basis.
In the representing a contribution from the parent.
In addition, the financial statements, ongoing management expenses are parent recognises an increase in equity and an increase in included in revenue reserves, whereas performance fees and subsidiary investment equivalent to the amount of the share-based payment expenses costs relating to share-based payment transaction.
compensation schemes that are linked directly to investment An employee share trust is used for distributing option and performance are included in capital reserves.
Expenses of performance share and deferred bonus awards to employees acquisition of an investment designated as held at fair value under Caledonias share remuneration schemes.
The trustee through profit or loss or expenses of an aborted acquisition or purchases shares with money lent interest free by Caledonia disposal of an investment are presented as transaction costs, or and transfers shares to participating employees on receipt of deducted from the proceeds of sale as appropriate, and the requisite consideration or calling of awards.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 79 6919 Caledonia AR2017 Financials TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Significant accounting policies continued The transactions the employee share trust undertakes are Investments considered to be performed by the trust as an agent for Caledonia.
Investments are recognised and derecognised on a trade date, The transactions of the employee share trust are included in where a purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract the separate financial statements of the parent company and, whose terms require delivery of the investment within the following the requirements of IFRS 10, in the consolidated financial timeframe established by the market concerned, and are statements as if they arose in that company.
Own shares held by initially measured at cost, excluding transaction costs.
the employee share trust as at the reporting date are accounted Investments held as part of the groups business of investing for as if they were treasury shares.
in financial assets are designated as held at fair value through National Insurance on share option scheme gains and profit or loss in both the consolidated financial statements performance share and deferred bonus awards and the company financial statements.
National Insurance payable on the exercise of certain employee Investments designated as held at fair value through profit or share options and performance share awards at the date of loss are measured at subsequent reporting dates at fair value.
exercise and deferred bonus awards at the date of call has been Gains or losses arising from changes in the value of investments charged as an expense spread over the respective vesting designated as held at fair value through profit or loss, including periods.
The charge is based on the difference between the foreign exchange movements, are included in net profit or loss market value of the underlying shares at the reporting date for the period as a capital return.
and the exercise price for share options or nil for performance share awards and deferred bonus awards and calculated at the Listed investments are valued at bid price or the last traded latest enacted National Insurance rate.
price when a bid price is not available.
Unlisted investments are valued using recognised valuation methodologies, based on Taxation the International Private Equity and Venture Capital Valuation The tax expense represents the sum of tax currently payable Guidelines, which reflect the amount for which an asset could and deferred tax.
be exchanged between knowledgeable, willing parties on an The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the arms length basis.
The portfolio valuation methodology is period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the detailed on page 27.
Statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items Distributions from investment limited partnerships are treated of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other as disposal proceeds or income in accordance with the nature periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable of the distribution.
Any surplus capital distributions after or deductible.
The groups liability for current tax is calculated repaying partners capital are treated as realised gains.
using tax rates that were applicable at the reporting date.
Derivative financial instruments Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable Derivatives are recognised at fair value on the date a contract on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax value.
bases used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities Hedge accounting is not applied.
Changes in the fair value are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and of derivative financial instruments are recognised in the deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is Statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
probable that future taxable profits will be available against Capital reserve which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
The company maintains a capital reserve.
The following items Investment trust companies that have approval as such under are transferred into the capital reserve from profit or loss: section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are not liable for taxation on capital gains.
gains and losses on investments held at fair value through profit or loss The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to the extent that it is probable gains and losses on derivatives used to hedge the fair value that sufficient future taxable profits will be available to allow of investments all or part of the assets to be recovered.
fees and share-based payment expenses linked to Dividend distribution investment performance Dividends are recognised in the period in which they are expenses and finance costs incurred directly in relation appropriately authorised and no longer at the discretion of the to capital transactions entity.
For interim dividends, this will normally mean the date on which they are paid and, for final dividends, the date on actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension which they are approved in general meeting.
schemes taxation on items recognised in the capital reserve.
80 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 Financials TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Property, plant and equipment Borrowings Property is measured at fair value.
Gains arising from changes Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at in the fair value are included in other comprehensive income the fair value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
for the period in which they arise and losses included in profit Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or loss.
To the extent gains represent the reversal of cumulative or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an losses previously recognised they are included in profit or loss.
accrual basis in the Statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying Plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss.
settled in the period in which they arise.
The effective interest Assets in course of construction are measured at cost less any method allocates the interest expense over the life of the accumulated impairment loss.
instrument so as to reflect a constant return on the carrying amount of the liability.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the fair value or cost of items of property, plant and equipment less their estimated Provisions residual values using the straight-line method over their A provision is recognised in the Statement of financial estimated useful lives.
Land and assets in course of position when the company has a present legal or constructive construction are not depreciated.
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors best are as follows: estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation Buildings 25-50 years at the reporting date and are discounted to present value Office equipment 3-5 years where the effect is material.
Accumulated depreciation on revalued property is eliminated In the financial statements, provisions recognised for against the gross carrying amount of the asset.
investments are included in the Statement of comprehensive income as a capital return.
The gain or loss on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and Share capital the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded Statement of comprehensive income.
as the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Impairment of assets Where the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share Trust At each reporting date, the group reviews the carrying amounts purchases the companys equity share capital, the consideration of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs net any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
of income taxes, is deducted from equity attributable to the If any such indication exists, an impairment loss is recognised companys owners until the shares are transferred.
Where such for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds shares are subsequently transferred, any consideration received, its recoverable amount, if any.
The recoverable amount is the net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to the companys owners.
Receivables Receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at their Operating segments nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowances for Operating segments are based on the financial information estimated irrecoverable amounts.
reported to the chief operating decision maker.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 81 6919 Caledonia AR2017 Financials TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
