Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 91 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Vodafone Group Plc Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Vodafone Group Plcs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups loss and cash flows for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the Group, in addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 March 2017: the Company statement of financial position as at 31 March 2017: the consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: the Company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the Group financial statements and Company financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 215 million which represents 5% of a three year average of Adjusted operating profit AOP, including Vodafone India.
We used a three year average given volatility in the measure year-on-year as a result of Project Spring.
We identified six local operations which, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, either due to their size or their risk characteristics comprising UK, Spain, Italy, India, Materiality Germany and Vodacom South Africa.
The scope of work in Germany did not include an audit of the complete financial information of Kabel Deutschland GmbH KDG.
Further specific audit procedures over central functions and areas of significant judgement, including taxation, goodwill, treasury and material provisions and contingent liabilities, were performed at the Groups Head Office.
Taxation matters, including a provisioning claim for withholding tax in India and the recognition and Audit scope recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg and Germany.
Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems.
Areas of Significant one-off transactions.
focus Capitalisation and asset lives.
Changes in Groups presentation currency.
92 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Taxation matters The Group operates across a large number of We evaluated the design and implementation of controls in respect of provisioning for jurisdictions and is subject to periodic challenges by withholding tax and the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets.
local tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current status of the Indian tax normal course of business including transfer pricing, investigation and monitored changes in the disputes by reading external advice received indirect taxes and transaction related tax matters.
by the Group, where relevant, to establish that the tax provisions had been appropriately We focused on two matters relating to the legal claim adjusted to reflect the latest external developments.
in respect of withholding tax on the acquisition of In respect of the deferred tax assets, we assessed the recoverability of losses from a tax Hutchison Essar Limited and the recognition and perspective through performing the following: recoverability of deferred tax assets in Luxembourg andGermany.
understanding how losses arose and where they are located, including to which subgroups they are attributed: Provisioning claim for withholding tax there continues to be uncertainty regarding the resolution of the considering whether the losses can be reversed: legal claim from the Indian authorities in respect evaluating the results of local statutory impairment assessments including reversals: of withholding tax on the acquisition of Hutchison EssarLimited.
considering the impact of recent regulatory developments, as applicable: Recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets in assessing any restrictions on future use: and Luxembourg and Germany significant judgement is determining whether any of the losses will expire.
required in relation to the recognition and recoverability of deferred tax assets, particularly in respect of losses In addition we assessed the application of International Accounting Standard 12 Income in Luxembourg and Germany amounting to 19.6 Taxes including: billion and 2.8 billion respectively.
During the current year 4.3 billion of deferred tax assets have been fideunderstanding the triggers for recognition of deferred tax assets: recognised due to lower interest rates and a change in considering effects of tax planning strategies: the local Luxembourg corporate tax rate.
testing the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and challenging and Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 agreeing the key assumptions in the Board approved five year management plan: and Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 6 Taxation and note 30 assessing managements view of the Groups likelihood of generating future taxable Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
profits to support the recoverability of the deferred tax assets.
We determined that the carrying value of deferred tax assets at 31 March 2017 was supported by managements plans including intercompany funding arrangements.
We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 6 and note 30 of the financial statements, including the disclosures made in respect of the utilisation period of deferred tax assets.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 93 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Carrying value of goodwill The Group has goodwill of 26.8 billion contained We evaluated the appropriateness of managements identification of the Groups CGUs within 22 cash generating units CGUs.
and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the impairment assessment process, including indicators of impairment.
Impairment charges to goodwill have been recognised in prior periods.
With the continued difficult With the support of our valuation experts, we benchmarked and challenged key macroeconomic environment in Europe and the assumptions in managements valuation models used to determine recoverable amount changing regulatory environment globally the risk against external data, including assumptions of projected adjusted EBITDA, projected thatgoodwill is impaired increases.
capital expenditure, projected licence and spectrum payments, long-term growth rate and discount rates.
For the CGUs which contain goodwill, the determination of recoverable amount, being the higher of fair value We performed testing of the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models and less costs to sell and value in use, requires judgement challenging and agreeing the key assumptions in the Board approved five year on the part of management in both identifying and managementplan.
then valuing the relevant CGUs.
Recoverable amounts Based on our procedures, we noted no exceptions and consider managements key are based on managements view of variables such as assumptions to be within a reasonable range.
future average revenue per user, average customer numbers and customer churn, timing and approval We validated the appropriateness of the related disclosures in note 4 and note 10 of the offuture capital, spectrum and operating expenditure financial statements.
and the most appropriate discount rate.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, a pre-tax impairment charge of 4.5 billion was recognised related to goodwill in India.
Refer to area of focus on Significant one-off transactions.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, note 4 Impairment losses and note 10 Intangible assets.
Provisions and contingent liabilities There are a number of threatened and actual legal, We used our tax specialists to gain an understanding of the current status of the tax cases regulatory and tax cases against the Group.
There is a and monitored changes in the disputes by reading external advice received by the Group, high level of judgement required in estimating the level where relevant, to establish that the tax provisions had been appropriately adjusted to of provisioning required.
reflect the latest external developments.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 For legal, regulatory and tax matters our procedures included the following: Critical accounting judgements and key sources testing key controls surrounding litigation, regulatory and tax procedures: of estimation uncertainty, note 17 Provisions and note30 Contingent liabilities and legal proceedings.
performing substantive procedures on the underlying calculations supporting the provisions recorded: where relevant, reading external legal opinions obtained by management: meeting with regional and local management and reading subsequent Group correspondence: discussing open matters with the Group litigation, regulatory, general counsel and tax teams: assessing managements conclusions through understanding precedents set in similar cases: and circularisation where appropriate of relevant third party legal representatives and direct discussion with them regarding certain material cases.
Based on the evidence obtained, while noting the inherent uncertainty with such legal, regulatory and tax matters, we determined the level of provisioning at 31 March 2017 to be appropriate.
We validated the completeness and appropriateness of the related disclosures through assessing that the disclosure of the uncertainties in note 17 and note 30 of the financial statements was sufficient.
94 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Revenue recognition accuracy of revenue recorded given the complexity of systems There is an inherent risk around the accuracy of We instructed the six local market audit teams in Group audit scope to undertake revenue recorded given the complexity of systems consistent audit procedures over revenue.
and the impact of changing pricing models to revenue Our audit approach included controls testing and substantive procedures covering, recognition tariff structures, incentive arrangements, inparticular: discounts etc.. testing the IT environment in which billing, rating and other relevant support systems The application of revenue recognition accounting reside, including the change control procedures in place around systems that bill standards is complex and involves a number of key material revenue streams: judgements and estimates.
testing the end-to-end reconciliation from business support systems to billing and Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report and rating systems to the general ledger.
This testing included validating material journals note1 Critical accounting judgements and key processed between the billing system and general ledger: sources of estimation uncertainty.
performing tests on the accuracy of customer bill generation on a sample basis and testing of a sample of the credits and discounts applied to customer bills: and testing cash receipts for a sample of customers back to the customer invoice.
We also considered the application of the Groups accounting policies to amounts billed and the accounting implications of new business models to check that Group accounting policies were appropriate for these models and were followed.
Based on our work, we noted no significant issues on the accuracy of revenue recorded in the year.
Significant one-off transactions We focused on two significant one-off transactions Our procedures on the Netherlands joint venture included the following: which occurred during the year: the completion of the making use of our valuations specialists to support the assessment of the valuation Netherlands joint venture with Liberty Global and the of the business, including challenging and agreeing the key assumptions in the proposed merger of the Groups Indian business with approved business plan and the allocation of synergies to calculate the gain: Idea Cellular.
Accounting for these transactions and related disclosures requires the exercise of significant challenging managements assessment on the treatment as a joint venture including judgement.
examining the relevant agreements: and Netherlands joint venture on 31 December 2016 checking the disclosures in the Annual Report.
Liberty Global and Vodafone completed a 50:50 joint venture in respect of their businesses in the Our procedures on the proposed transaction with Aditya Birla Group included the Netherlands, VodafoneZiggo.
Management has following: assessed that VodafoneZiggo is a jointly controlled challenging management on whether the requirements under IFRS 5 for the India entity as decisions about the relevant activities require business to be classified as held for sale and discontinued operations were met, the consent of both parties.
A gain of 1.3 billion has including reading and discussion of relevant third party legal advice: been recognised in connection with the transaction.
making use of our valuation specialists to examine the valuation methodology Transaction with Idea on 20 March 2017 the merger in determining the fair value less cost to sell: of Vodafone India and Idea Cellular was announced.
This merger, once completed, will result in a 45.1% stake verifying the accuracy of managements calculation of the impairment charge and for Vodafone Group, 26% stake for Aditya Birla Group allocation to respective asset classes and the recognition and recoverability of the with the remaining 28.9% being shares in public float.
associated deferred tax asset: and The Vodafone India business, excluding its 42% stake in checking the disclosures in the Annual Report.
Indus Towers, has been presented as held for sale and discontinued operations as at 31 March 2017.
At the Based on our procedures, we noted no issues and were satisfied with the associated balance sheet date, as required by IFRS5 the business accounting for these matters.
is held at fair value less cost to sell.
A pre-tax impairment charge of 4.5 billion has been recognised for the year, together with the recognition of an associated 0.8billion deferred tax asset.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty and related notes in the financial statements.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 95 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Capitalisation and asset lives There are a number of areas where management We tested controls in place over the property, plant and equipment cycle, evaluated the judgement impacts the carrying value of property, plant appropriateness of capitalisation policies, performed tests of details on costs capitalised and equipment, software intangible assets and their and assessed the timeliness of the transfer of assets in the course of construction and the respective depreciation profiles.
These include: application of the asset life.
the decision to capitalise or expense costs: In performing these substantive procedures, we assessed the judgements made by management including: the annual asset life review including the impact of changes in the Groups strategy: and the nature of underlying costs capitalised as part of the cost of the network roll-out: the timeliness of the transfer from assets in the the appropriateness of asset lives applied in the calculation of depreciation: and course of construction.
in assessing the need for accelerated depreciation given the network modernisation programme in place across Europe.
Refer to the Audit and Risk Committee Report, note1 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of No issues were noted from our testing.
estimation uncertainty, note 10 Intangible assets and note 11 Property, plant and equipment.
IT systems and controls We place a high level of reliance on the Groups We conducted detailed end-to-end walkthroughs of the finance processes, utilising IT systems and key internal controls.
As a result a our understanding from the prior year to reassess the design effectiveness of the key significant proportion of our audit effort was conducted internal controls and to identify changes.
We then conducted testing of the operating in this area at local, regional and Group levels and at the effectiveness of these controls to obtain evidence that they operated throughout the Groups shared service centres.
In response to the changes and control enhancements made during the year, we performed the following: The Group has continued to devote considerable resources to the development of key business and evaluating the design of the controls to ensure they mitigated the relevant financial related IT controls to ensure a robust system of internal reporting risks and testing the operation of controls in the periods prior to and post control as described in the Audit and Risk Committee any change: Report on page 60. where systems changed during the year, testing IT general controls and data migration processes: and tested controls and performed additional substantive procedures of key general ledger account reconciliations and manual journals.
We did not regard any of the control issues identified in 2017 as significant in the context of the Group financial statements.
Changes in Groups presentation currency With effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups presentation Our procedures included the following: currency was changed from sterling to euro to better testing the Hyperion Financial Management HFM application, including controls align with the geographic split of the Groups operations.
in place, to conclude on the appropriateness of the euro presentation currency This change was accounted for retrospectively resulting application set up: in historical retranslation of the Groups results.
testing the retranslation of sterling comparative balances disclosed in the financial statements: testing the disclosures included in the Annual Report: examining managements accounting paper assessing the impact of the presentation currency change upon their hedge relationships, and for material hedge accounting relationships we examined the respective hedging instrument to assess its effectiveness: and testing key controls in place over designation and monitoring of quasi equity loan arrangements and performing tests of details on the accounting treatment of material balances.
No issues were noted from our testing.
96 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group operates in 26 countries across two regions: Europe and AMAP.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the local operations by us, as the Group engagement team, or component auditors within PwC UK and from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those local operations to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
The Groups local operations vary in size with the six operations in Group scope UK, Spain, Italy, India, Vodafone Germany, Vodacom South Africa representing 67% and 66% of the Groups revenue and AOP including Vodafone India.
We identified these six local operations as those that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information, due to their size or risk characteristics.
The materiality applied by the component auditors in the context of the Group audit ranged from 65 million to 160 million.
These local operations are also subject to audits for local statutory purposes where their local statutory materiality ranges from 1 million to 175 million.
Specific audit procedures over certain balances and transactions were performed to give appropriate coverage of all material balances at both geographical division and Group levels.
The Group engagement team visited all six operations in scope for Group reporting during the audit cycle and the lead audit partner or a senior member of the Group engagement team attended the year end audit clearance meetings.
In addition, audits for local statutory purposes are performed at a further 15 locations.
Where possible, the timing of local statutory audits was accelerated to align to the Group audit timetable, with significant findings reported to the Group engagement team.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall Group materiality 215 million 2016: 248 million.
How we determined it 5% of a three year average of AOP, including Vodafone India.
Rationale for benchmark applied We used a three year average given volatility in the measure year-on-year as a result of Project Spring.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 15 million 2016: 14 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement of responsibility, set out on pages 88 and 89, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement of responsibility about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement of responsibility, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group and Company have adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend them to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: the Strategic Report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 44 to 85 with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 44 to 85 with respect to the Companys corporate governance code and practices and about its administrative, management and supervisory bodies complies with rules 7.2.
7 of the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules sourcebook of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 97 In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group, the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors report, and in the information referred to above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the Directors on page 88, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the We have no exceptions to report.
UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group and Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: and the section of the Annual Report on pages 57 to 63, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, We have no exceptions to report.
describing the work of the Audit and Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the Directors confirmation on page 88 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 We have nothing material to add or to of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, draw attention to.
including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being We have nothing material to add or to managed or mitigated: and draw attention to.
the Directors explanation on page 34 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 We have nothing material to add or to of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have draw attention to.
done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement of responsibility that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement of responsibility in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
98 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Audit report on the consolidated and parent company financial statements continued Directors remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Companies Act 2006 opinion In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, a Corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibility set out on pages 88 and 89, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report, Directors report and Corporate governance statement, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Andrew Kemp Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 16 May 2017 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Vodafone Group Plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
3 Note that the report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for 2017 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form20-F for 2017.
