Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Our operations Waterand wastewater In our water and wastewater business we are focused on providing services inthe most efficient way possible.
Innovation, new technologies and the pioneering of a holistic approach to water and wastewater management are playing a key role in delivering service improvements and long-term value.
co. uk water Reservoir Key water mains South West Water 1.7 15,300 900 million total km of drinking water wastewater pumping stations populationserved mains network 0.8 682 144 million customers treatment works with bathing waters and 66 ultraviolet UV 24shellfish waters treatment facilities 21 15,600 raw water reservoirs km wastewater mains network 26 Bournemouth Water 0.5 2,831 million total km of drinking water populationserved mains network 0.2 7 million customers treatment works with 4 ultraviolet UV treatment facilities Stephen Bird 2 Managing Director, raw water reservoirs South West Water We continued to deliver strong performance in 2016 17, providing high quality drinking water, achieving our best result to date in leakage and delivering asignificant improvement in wastewater compliance.
We were well prepared for theopening of the non-household retailmarket and are well-placed as preparations get underway ahead of thenext Price Review PR19.
27 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 These savings were driven by continuing advantages Continuing outperformance Our operations from our strategic alliances, including a new water The merged water business of South West Water and Water and distribution framework and the H 0 capital alliance, Bournemouth Water performed well during the year.
5 which is now delivering efficient schemes within the South West Waters Return on Regulated Equity wastewater Bournemouth region.
RoRE performance continues to be sector leading continued and is outperforming its business plan with a RoRE We are also ensuring efficient capital investment, of12.6%.
This arises from base, financing and promoting off-site build techniques and changing the operational returns with 6% as the base return, 3.2% way we work through our iOPS programme focussed reflecting total expenditure savings and efficiencies, on innovation and new technology to deliver cost 0.3% reflecting a net reward on Outcome Delivery efficiency and customer service improvements.
Incentives ODIs and 3.1% reflecting the difference We continued to deliver synergies from our between actual and assumed financing costs.
This is acquisition of and merger with Bournemouth Water, consistent with the approach to our WaterShare focusing on front-line functions, having completed mechanism.
integration of back-office and support services at the A key highlight for the year is our significant capital end of the prior year.
The targeted c. 27 million of net investment of 191 million in our drinking water and synergies over K6 are on track.
This reflects our focus on enhancing our environmental performance and we ODI rewards are pleased with the progress seen during the year.
South West Water had 22 ODIs and Bournemouth Water 10 ODIs, which have potential financial rewards During the year Ofwat updated its guidance to or penalties.
These ODIs include the Service companies which requires financing outperformance Incentive Mechanism SIM.
to be calculated using an in-year average RPI rate.
This approach reflects a financing outperformance of Operational performance for the year continued to 2.4% and a total RoRE of 11.9% for 2016 17 10.1% for improve and there was a net ODI reward of 3.6 2015 16.
South West Waters RoRE would remain million 5.5 million cumulatively over two years sector leading and by the end of K6 period overall reflecting 0.3% RoRE outperformance to date.
South West Water maintained good reliability and serviceability across all four areas of operations and Total expenditure savings bathing water quality, water restrictions, interruptions South West Water continued to focus on driving to supply and leakage all resulted in rewards for the value through efficiency.
Disappointingly, performance in wastewater totalexpenditure Totex savings of 129 million and pollutions and external flooding fell below our financing outperformance of 67 million in the first targeted commitment and resulted in a penalty, two years of K6 2015-2020. however, performance did improve overall compared The business expects to remain at the forefront with the prior year.
of cost efficiency for the water sector.
The cumulative net reward of 5.5 million comprises 7.5 million of net rewards recognised at the end of the regulatory period and 2.0 million of net penalty RoRE 2016 17 which could be adjusted during the regulatory period.
Drinking water Drinking water quality is a key priority and we maintained the high standards set previously.
South 2 West Water achieved 99.96% and Bournemouth Water achieved 99.98%.
3 1 The improved performance in managing our network led to our best ever leakage result of 82ML per day, 4 exceeding our original target and delivering an ODIreward.
This reflects innovative approaches tonetwork management including investment in real-time pressure management, detection, repairs and network monitoring.
This was our 20th consecutive year of unrestricted 1 Base 6.0% water supplies and the Bournemouth water region 2 Totex outperformance 3.2% maintained its record of zero water restrictions 3 ODI outperformance 0.3% sinceprivatisation.
1 4 Financing outperformance 3.1% The average duration of supply interruptions per 1 Interest outperformance is based on the outturn effective real property was lower in both regions compared with interest rate on net debt using the forecast K6 average RPI, the previous year.
In the South West Water region this notional gearing of 62.5% and an actual effective tax rate of 18.2%.
performance delivered a small reward compared to the penalty incurred in 2015 16.
28 Upstream Thinking for sustainable solutions Upstream Thinking is a good example of our aim to examine long-term costs as well as environmental factors when assessing capital expenditure on our network infrastructure.
By delivering landscape-based solutions sympathetic to the environment rather than harder engineering solutions, we are addressing water quality and flooding risk in the most sustainable manner.
Our strategy is to improve the quality of drinking water before it reaches treatment works, making it more cost effective to treat water.
We also look to reduce flooding risk and retain water in catchments.
We could look solely at costly end-of-pipe solutions that might have had less preferable environmental impacts.
But by co-operating with farmers and other stakeholders, we avoid the financial costs of hard engineering solutions and deliver solutions with a favourable sustainability score.
Investment and innovation This delivered a significant improvement in numeric Mayflower will be We continued to invest in our assets to deliver compliance the percentage of wastewater treatment one of only two plants drinking water improvements.
The new 60 million works deemed compliant.
Performance for works in the world to use state-of-the-art Mayflower Water Treatment Works with numeric consents was 98.4% compared to 95.8% transformational in Plymouth is the largest single item of capital in the previous year.
Our performance at our smaller expenditure in our current five-year plan.
descriptive sites was 99.4% compared to 99.1% ceramic membrane last year.. filter technology Serving Plymouth and South Devon, this is a major construction and engineering project with the facility scheduled to open in 2018.
During the year, we reached We delivered record bathing the halfway point in the build on time and on budget.
water quality results Mayflower will be one of only two plants in the world to use transformational ceramic membrane filter technology.
Protecting the environment Construction is also progressing well at three other Significant incidents Categories 1 to 2 continued to modern drinking water treatment works at Tamar fall, however the number of minor incidents increased Lakes, Tottiford and Northcombe.
Each will use marginally to 246 2015 222.
Unfortunately, the Granulated Activated Carbon GAC, a sophisticated number of significant incidents at four is higher than filter technology for improved water treatment.
target and, although lower than the seven reported last year, will result in a penalty for the year.
We are There was continued investment in our awardprioritising further improvement in this area of our winning Upstream Thinking programme of catchment wastewater operations.
management involving a range of stakeholders including wildlife trusts and river authorities.
We delivered record bathing water quality results During the year we worked with 1,056 farms against more stringent EU standards during the year.
and improved 7,568 acres of upstream land.
Of the 143 bathing waters tested in the South West Water Region, 141 98.6% were classified as sufficient Wastewater or better.
116 beaches 81.1% were classified as South West Water aims to ensure the safe and excellent.
All of Cornwalls beaches passed and only efficient removal and disposal of wastewater, while two beaches in Devon failed with neither of these due minimising the possibility of sewer flooding and to any failure on the part of South West Waters own pollution.
We continued to implement a programme assets.
These bathing water results arecritically of wastewater treatment improvements and important given the importance of thecoastal increased monitoring to prevent potential failure.
environment to the regions economy.
29 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Wastewater investment Customer service and engagement Our operations Highlights of our investments and activity in wastewater There was a significant improvement in our customer Water and during the year include process improvements and service performance during the year.
upgrades at four key sites and improvements in the wastewater South West Water scored 81.6 under the SIM used by sewage network to reduce the impact of saline Ofwat to compare water company performance.
continued infiltration the impact of salt water.
We also invested inincreased capacity at our wastewater treatment The score for2016 17 continues the improving trend worksat Fluxton in Devon and Hayle in Cornwall.
of recent years and compares well with the previous years score of 78.6.
This reflects good progress in Our continued investment in sustainability includes how wedeal with service issues as well as call centre 5 million as part of our Downstream Thinking investments in data analytics.
programme, which seeks to reduce sewer flooding byimproving urban drainage, and 20 million for Bournemouth Waters SIM score was 86.3 in 2016 17, improvements in bathing waters and shellfish waters one of the highest in the industry.
The improved SIM score owes much to the We also invested over 1 million to support the approximately 30% reduction in written complaints ExeterFlood Defence Scheme at Countess Wear received at South West Water and Bournemouth Wastewater Treatment works.
The customer experience quality scores also opportunity to work with partners in the region improved across both regions during the year.
In toenhance sustainability and deliver more addition, our overall customer satisfaction was 89%, resilientservices.
inline with last year, with value-for-money satisfaction at an all-time high, with customer bills reducing in real terms over 2015-2020 regulatory period.
Support for those who need it There was also good progress in helping vulnerable customers, including developing affordability schemes.
South West Water was one of the first companies to introduce a social tariff to help customers experiencing temporary or long-term problems in paying their water bills.
We implemented a new employee training and development programme during the year that extends the support for vulnerable customers.
We have also brought Bournemouth Water in line with South West Waters approach by rolling out a social tariff for the first time in 2017 18.
WaterShare Our unique WaterShare scheme identified 4.0 million of benefits to customers during the yearunder review.
This is in addition to the 3.1 million shared in 2015 16.
Following discussions with the independent WaterShare panel, it was decided toinvest the 3.1 million in key areas of customer service.
How the benefit in 2016 17 is to be applied will again be considered by the WaterShare panel.
Non-household market opening Since 1 April 2017, up to 1.2 million businesses and other non-household customers across the country have been able to choose which retailer they buy water Think Sink!
Wholesale services, providing water to premises and taking wastewater away, are unaffected, but business customers can We continue to target a reduction in sewer flooding and pollution through the choose who provides their retail service.
promotion of responsible sewer usage with our customers.
During the year, the Group established Pennon Water Following the success of our award-winning Love Your Loo campaign, which Services, which will operate independently of South targeted communities in areas with a history of sewer blockages, we launched West Water and can secure services from any anew Think Sink campaign in December 2016. wholesaler in the United Kingdom.
Equally, South This encourages customers to take the pledge and avoid disposing of fat, oil West Water has the freedom to supply other business and grease among the major contributors to blockages down the drain.
30 MarketReady In preparation for the opening of the nonhousehold retail market on 1 April 2017, we carried out a company-wide training and awareness programme entitled MarketReady, designed to ensure recognition and compliance with the new market codes.
A series of workshops were delivered to almost 2000 staff with messaging subsequently reinforced using an innovative web-based knowledge-testing application.
The MarketReady campaign also featured heavily in all internal communications throughout the year.
From September 2016 South West Water fully Charitable partnerships engaged in a period of shadow operation to ensure In 2016 17 South West Water provided almost 98.6% that systems and processes were ready for market 75,000 of community sponsorship as part of its opening, operating as closely as possible to the business plan.
Using the Business in the Community improved results for market conditions and requirements whilst ensuring framework as a guide, which marries core business bathing waters customer service levels were maintained.
purpose with identified community and social needs, South West Waters main sponsorships were with: Future market opportunities Devon and Cornwall Wildlife Trusts in support Ofwat is promoting the development of a market for 20m oftheir community engagement and educational bio-resources also referred to as sludge: a product investment in bathing and outreach programmes.
Activities included a 2-day from sewage which can be used for energy or as a shellfish water improvements Wildlife Celebration at Trebah Gardens in Cornwall fertiliser substitute and a market for water resources.
and 55 school visits to Wembury Marine Centre We conducted preliminary work on these potential inDevon opportunities during the year and are actively Surf Life Saving GB in support of the Nippers & engaged with Ofwat in developing the potential Youth Championships and a three-year Graduate frameworks for these markets.
Lifeguard Project programme for young people who will be able to gain a National Vocational Ahead of PR19 we are also engaging with customers Qualification and become a Level 1 Coach at and stakeholders around their priorities for water and age16 wastewater services over the short and long-term.
The initial findings have helped inform our updated The South West Coast Path Association, which 25-year strategic plan which is being published takes care of the 630-mile coast path, one of the during the summer.
regions main tourist attractions British elite windsurfer and Olympic hopeful Izzy Our community Hamilton, from Bude, who learned to windsurf at Regional economy Roadford Lake.
South West Water is one of the largest companies in Access and recreation its region.
The services it provides are essential for The South West Lakes Trust, an independent charity, the areas economic sustainability and the company manages over 14,000 acres of land on South West supports the employment of around 5000 staff Waters behalf.
The Trust is the regions largest directly and indirectly through the supply chain.
combined environmental and recreational charity, taking care of50 inland water sites which attracted The company works closely with Local Enterprise more than 1.9 million visits during 2016 17.
Partnerships LEPs, the Environment Agency and other stakeholders and regulators on projects and Conservation, access and recreation activities in the initiatives to ensure a sustainable and resilient future Bournemouth Water area, including management for the region.
of fisheries and moorings, are now also being managed by South West Lakes Trust on South West Waters behalf.
