Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions BASIS OF PREPARATION Preparation of financial statements The consolidated financial statements of the Group and the separate financial statements of NEX Group plc have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as issued by the IASB and the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRIC and their predecessor bodies, and as endorsed by the EUand the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
In publishing the parent company financial statements here together withthe Group financial statements, NEX Group plc has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement, individual statement of comprehensive income and related notes that form a part of these financial statements.
The financial statements are prepared in pound sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company, and are presented in millions.
NEX Group plc is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The significant accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are included at the beginning of the notes to which they relate.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to apply judgements and the use of estimates and assumptions about future conditions.
Management considers impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets arising on consolidation note 15, investment in joint ventures and associates notes 22 and 23, provisions note 16, contingent liabilities note 17, technology development revenue note 1 and the presentation of exceptional items note 4 to be the areas where increased judgement is required.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty, are set out in the relevant notes to the financial statements.
Estimates and assumptions are continuously evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates, actual results reported in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those estimates.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
Segmental information and the number of employees analysed by operating segment for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been restated due to a change in accounting policy for operating segments notes 1 and 9 b.
Earnings per share, dividends per share, treasury shares and shares held in the employee share trust as at 31 March 2016 have been restated as if the share consolidation had occurred at the beginning of the comparative year notes 6, 7 and 26.
The consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2016 has been restated to include restricted funds in financing activities instead of operating activities note 12.
Matched principal trade receivables and payables as at 31 March 2016 have been restated due to a change in accounting policy from trade date accounting to settlement date accounting notes 5, 18 and 19.
All notes to the financial statements have been restated for the year ended 31March 2016 to be on a continuing operations basis, where possible.
The Company was incorporated on 18 February 2016 and on 15 December 2016 obtained control of the entire share capital of ICAP plc via the Scheme of Arrangement.
There were no changes in rights or the proportion of control exercised as a result of this transaction.
Although the Scheme of Arrangement resulted in a change of legal ownership, this was a common control transaction and therefore outside the scope of IFRS3.
In substance these financial statements reflect the continuation of the pre-existing group headed by ICAP plc and the financial statements have been prepared applying the principles of a capital reorganisation.
As a result, the consolidated comparatives presented in these financial statements are the consolidated results of ICAP plc.
The prior year consolidated balance sheet reflects the share capital structure of ICAP plc.
The current year consolidated balance sheet presents the legal change in ownership of the Group, including the share capital of NEX Group plc and the reserves arising as a result of the Scheme of Arrangement.
The consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 84 and the additional disclosures in note 26 explain the impact of the Scheme of Arrangement in more detail.
TheCompany comparatives presented in these financial statements are those of NEX Group plc, not ICAP plc.
Discontinued operations On 30 December 2016, the Group completed the disposal of IGBB to TP ICAP.
The results of the IGBB business have been presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated income statement as the sale was a single coordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business.
The assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB were presented as held for sale assets and liabilities on the face of the balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 because at that point the disposal met the criteria in IFRS5 for held for sale classification since the business was available for sale in its present condition andthe sale was highly probable.
The assets and liabilities attributable to IGBB are no longer presented on the balance sheet as at31 March 2017 since the Transaction completed during the year.
The shares in TP ICAP plc were fully transferred to NEX shareholders and are deemed as a distribution through equity.
Presentation of the income statement The Group maintains a columnar format for the presentation of its consolidated income statement.
The columnar format enables the Group to continue its practice of improving the understanding of its results by presenting its trading profit.
This is the profit measure used to calculate trading EPS note 6 and is considered to be the most appropriate as it better reflects the Groups trading earnings.
Trading profit is reconciled to profit before tax on the face of the consolidated income statement, which also includes acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items.
The column acquisition and disposal costs includes: any gains, losses or other associated costs on the full or partial disposal of investments, associates, joint ventures or subsidiaries and costs associated with a business combination that do not constitute fees relating to the arrangement of financing: amortisation or impairment of intangible assets arising on consolidation: any re-measurement after initial recognition of deferred contingent consideration which has beenclassified as a liability: and any gains or losses on the revaluation of previous interests.
The column may also include items such as gains or losses on thesettlement of pre-existing relationships with acquired businesses and the re-measurement of liabilities that are above the value of indemnification.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 87 Financial statements BASIS OF PREPARATION CONTINUED Items which are both of a non-recurring nature and material are disclosed separately to give a clearer presentation of the Groups results.
These are shown as exceptional items on the face of the consolidated income statement.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the gain on disposal of IGBB was presented in the column exceptional items as opposed to the column acquisition and disposal costs given the exceptional nature and size of the disposal.
When the Group has disposed of or intends to dispose of a business component that represents a major line of business or geographic area of operations, it classifies such operations as discontinued.
The post tax profit or loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single line on the face of the consolidated income statement, separate from the other results of the Group.
The consolidated income statement for the comparative periods is restated to show the discontinued operations separate from those generated by the continuing operations.
Basis of consolidation The Groups consolidated financial statements include the results and net assets of the Company, its subsidiaries and the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
Subsidiaries An entity is regarded as a subsidiary if the Group has control over its strategic, operating and financial policies and intends to hold the investment on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of acquisition is measured at fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in the business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any minority interest.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the costs of the acquisition are less than the fair value of the net assets acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the consolidated income statement.
Fees associated with an acquisition are expensed as incurred.
When the Group increases its investment in an entity resulting in an associate becoming a subsidiary, the intangibles related to the acquisition are valued and the elements of those not previously recognised as a share of net assets are recorded as revaluation gains realised in the year in other comprehensive income.
A change of ownership that does not result in a loss of control is classified as an equity transaction, with the difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is recorded and the fair value of the consideration received recognised directly in equity.
Where the Group has issued a put option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group derecognises the non-controlling interest and instead recognises a contingent deferred consideration liability for the estimated amount likely to be paid to the non-controlling interest on exercise of those options.
The residual amount, representing the difference between any consideration paid payable and the non-controlling interests share of net assets, is recognised in equity.
Movements in the estimated liability after initial recognition are recognised within the consolidated income statement.
Where the Group has a call option over shares held by a non-controlling interest, the Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest until it is certain that the option will be called.
At that point the accounting treatment is the same as for a put option.
The results of companies acquired during the year are included in the Groups results from the effective date of acquisition.
The results of companies disposed of during the year are included up to the effective date of disposal.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
On consolidation, the accounting policies of Group companies the Company and its subsidiaries are consistent with those applied by the Group.
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated as part of the consolidation process.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Joint ventures A joint venture is an entity in which the Group has an interest and, in the opinion of the directors, exercises joint control over its operating and financial policies.
An interest exists where an investment is held on a long-term basis for the purpose of securing a contribution to the Groups activities.
Following the adoption of IFRS11 Joint Arrangements and IAS28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures on 1 April 2014, investments in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method.
Under this method, such investments are initially stated at cost, including attributable goodwill, and are adjusted thereafter for the post acquisition change in the Groups share of net assets.
88 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Associates The Group classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, but not control, and that are neither subsidiaries nor joint ventures, as associates.
Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method.
Available-for-sale investments The Group classifies investments in entities which are not subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates as available-for-sale investments.
Available-for-sale investments are initially recognised at fair value.
Available-for-sale investments in equity assets that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are subsequently recorded at cost less impairment.
All other available-for-sale investments are fair valued subsequently at each period end.
Foreign currencies In individual entities, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the prior month closing exchange rate between the functional currency and the foreign currency.
At each end of the reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences are recognised in the consolidated income statement, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where these form part of the net investment of an overseas business or are designated as hedges of a net investment or cash flow and, therefore, the changes in value resulting from exchange differences are recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated in the balance sheet at the exchange rate on the original transaction date.
Nonmonetary items measured at fair value are translated using the exchange rate ruling when the fair value was determined.
On consolidation, the results of businesses with non-pound sterling functional currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year where these approximate to the rate at the date of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities of overseas businesses are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised within other comprehensive income.
Cumulative translation differences arising after the transition to IFRSs are taken to the consolidated income statement on disposal of the net investment.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a non-pound sterling entity are treated as assets and liabilities of that entity and translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the period closing rate.
Where applicable, the Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising before the date of transition to IFRSs as denominated in the presentational currency of the Group.
In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the presentational currency of the Group at the average exchange rates for the year or at the rate prevailing at the time of the transaction where more appropriate.
Future accounting developments At 31 March 2017, the following standards have been issued by the IASB which are not effective for these consolidated financial statements: in July 2014, the IASB issued IFRS9 Financial Instruments, which will replace IAS39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
NEX expects some classification and measurement changes in relation to its available-for-sale investments and some impairment changes in relation to its financial assets, but these are not expected to be significant from a Group perspective.
The standard will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
NEX intends to adopt IFRS9 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019.
NEX does not expect to restate comparatives on initial application of IFRS9 on 1 April 2018 but will provide detailed transitional disclosures in accordance with the amendment requirements of IFRS7: in May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will replace IAS18 Revenue and IAS11 Construction Contracts and other related interpretations on revenue recognition.
Adoption of the standard is not expected to have a significant impact on NEXs main revenue streams of transaction fees and subscription fees.
Efforts will be focused on preparing and sourcing information necessary to comply with the enhanced disclosure requirements introduced by IFRS15.
NEX intends to adopt IFRS15 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2019: and in January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS16 Leases, which will replace IAS17 Leases and other related interpretations on leases.
NEX expects an increase in both assets and liabilities for transactions currently accounted for as operating leases.
The standard will become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
NEX intends to adopt IFRS16 for its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2020.
The impact on NEXs financial statements from the adoption of these IFRS standards is currently being assessed and will be disclosed closer to the time of the adoption.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 89
