Notes to the Company Financial Statements A.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is a public company which is limited by shares and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys principal business is investment and it is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Company is registered in England and Wales and the address of its registered office is Horseferry House, Horseferry Road, London, SW1P 2AW.
The Company is the sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust and The Burberry Group plc SIP Trust collectively known as the ESOP trusts.
These financial statements have been prepared by including the ESOP trusts within the financial statements of the Company.
The purpose of the ESOP trusts is to purchase shares of the Company in order to satisfy Group share-based payment arrangements.
Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, wholesaler and retailer.
The Group also licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly.
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by derivative financial asset and derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not presented its own Income Statement.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies see note C. Financial Reporting Standard 101 reduced disclosure exemptions The Company has taken advantage of the applicable disclosure exemptions permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements, which are summarised below: Standard Disclosure exemption IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Full exemption IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement para 91-99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities IAS 1, Presentation of the Financial Statements para 10 d statement of cash flows para 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements para 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS para 38 present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 para 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements para 38B-D additional comparative information para 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position para 111 cash flow statement information para 134-136 capital management disclosures IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows Full exemption IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes para 30-31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not in Accounting Estimates and Errors applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures para 17 key management compensation The requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member IAS 36, Impairment of Assets para 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e 184 184 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements A.
Accounting policies Burberry Group plc the Company is the parent Company of the Burberry Group.
Burberry Group plc is a public company The following principal accounting policies have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements.
These policies which is limited by shares and is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys principal business is investment and have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated: it is incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The Company is the sponsoring entity of The Burberry Group Going concern plc ESOP Trust and The Burberry Group plc SIP Trust collectively known as the ESOP trusts.
These financial statements have Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance and after making enquiries, the directors been prepared by including the ESOP trusts within the financial statements of the Company.
The purpose of the ESOP trusts consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended is to purchase shares of the Company in order to satisfy Group share-based payment arrangements.
The Group Share schemes also licenses third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received from which comprise the Group are controlled by the Company directly or indirectly.
employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the share-based incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value of the awards made.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention, as modified by derivative financial asset and derivative financial liabilities measured at fair value through The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of non-market performance profit or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market the Company has not presented its own Income Statement.
conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Companys accounting policies see note C. In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
Financial Reporting Standard 101 reduced disclosure exemptions The Company has taken advantage of the applicable disclosure exemptions permitted by FRS 101 in the financial statements, The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments to employees of subsidiary undertakings in the Group is which are summarised below: treated as a capital contribution.
In the Companys financial statements, the cost of the share-based incentives is recognised over the vesting period of the awards as an increase in investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a corresponding increase Standard Disclosure exemption in equity.
Where amounts are received from Group companies in relation to equity instruments granted to the employees IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Full exemption of the subsidiary undertaking, the amount is derecognised from investments in Group companies, to the extent that it was IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement para 91-99 disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement initially treated as a capital contribution, with any remaining amounts recognised as an increase in equity.
of assets and liabilities IAS 1, Presentation of the Financial Statements para 10 d statement of cash flows When options and awards are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held para 10 f a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when in the ESOP trusts, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds received from the exercises, an entity applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective statement net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share premium.
Share-based payments of items in its financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements disclosures relevant to the Company are presented within note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
para 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS para 38 present comparative information in respect of paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1 Dividend distribution para 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the year in which the dividend para 38B-D additional comparative information becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim para 40A-D requirements for a third statement of financial position dividends are recognised when paid.
para 111 cash flow statement information para 134-136 capital management disclosures Investments in subsidiaries IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows Full exemption Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provisions to reflect impairment in value.
IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes para 30-31 requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not in Accounting Estimates and Errors applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective Impairment of investments in subsidiaries IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures para 17 key management compensation Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
An impairment loss is recognised The requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets net more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction realisable value and value-in-use.
For the purpose of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which is wholly owned by such a member there are separately identifiable cash flows cash-generating units.
IAS 36, Impairment of Assets para 134 d -134 f and 135 c -135 e 184 185 185 Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued Taxation Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The current tax liability is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities, with the exception of derivative financial instruments, are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost approximate their carrying amount due to the use of market interest rates.
The Companys primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: Cash at bank and in hand On the Balance Sheet, cash at bank and in hand comprises cash held with banks.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified in creditors amounts falling due within one year unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
186 186 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements B.
Accounting policies continued Taxation Financial instruments continued Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Derivative financial instruments The Company uses equity swap contracts to economically hedge its exposure to fluctuations in the Companys share price The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit because it excludes which impacts the social security costs payable by Group companies in relation to share-based compensation schemes.
items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The current tax liability is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by the The equity swap contracts are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and classified as held for trading.
All subsequent balance sheet date.
changes in fair value are recognised in the Income Statement up to the maturity date.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of Foreign currency translation assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, if the temporary difference arises from Functional and presentation currency initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction Items included in the financial statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
the Company operates the functional currency.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
Transactions in foreign currencies Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate prevailing at Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which are held at the year end, the temporary differences can be utilised.
are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the period in which they arise.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Company and it is probable that the temporary difference will not Called up share capital reverse in the foreseeable future.
Called up share capital is classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the Company becomes a party to the Where the Company purchases its own equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities held at amortised C. Key sources of estimation and judgement cost approximate their carrying amount due to the use of market interest rates.
Preparation of the financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires that management make certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent The Companys primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as Cash at bank and in hand appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
On the Balance Sheet, cash at bank and in hand comprises cash held with banks.
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including Trade and other receivables expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates Trade and other receivables are included in current assets.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment are discussed below: of receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Impairment of investments in subsidiaries Income Statement.
Investments in subsidiaries are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
When a review for potential impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is determined based on the higher of an investments fair value less costs Borrowings to sell and value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates.
Refer to note D for Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated further details of investments.
at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified Impairment of trade and other receivables in creditors amounts falling due within one year unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the The Company is required to make an estimate of the recoverable value of receivables.
When assessing potential impairment liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
of receivables, management considers factors including any specific known problems or risks.
Refer to note E for further details on the net carrying value of trade and other receivables.
186 187 187 Notes to the Company Financial Statements D. Investments in subsidiaries Cost m As at 1 April 2016 1,712.7 Additions 96.7 Impairment charge 1.0 As at 31 March 2017 1,808.4 During the year the Company increased its investments in Burberry Haymarket Limited by 66.5m, Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited by 16.3m and Burberry Limited by 13.9m.
The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments in subsidiaries is supported by their underlying net assets and value generated by their operations.
The subsidiary undertakings and investments of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 of the Group financial statements.
E. Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed by Group companies 423.2 496.4 Prepayments 0.6 0.8 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due after more than one year 423.8 497.2 Amounts owed by Group companies 246.3 56.7 Prepayments 0.2 0.4 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due within one year 246.5 57.1 Total trade and other receivables 670.3 554.3 All amounts owed by Group companies are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable between 1 June 2017 and 17 June 2021.
F. Creditors As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed to Group companies 804.9 801.5 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 804.9 801.5 Amounts owed to Group companies 56.6 59.4 Other payables 3.3 Accruals 0.2 0.2 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 60.1 59.6 Total creditors 865.0 861.1 Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based on LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable between 17 June 2019 and 17 June 2020.
All amounts owed to Group companies falling due within one year are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
G. Called up share capital Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2016: 0.05p each As at 1 April 2016 445,037,254 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 135,811 As at 31 March 2017 445,173,065 0.2 188 188 Notes to the Company Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements D. Investments in subsidiaries G. Called up share capital continued Cost m The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum As at 1 April 2016 1,712.7 of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase Additions 96.7 100m of its own shares back as part of a share buy-back programme.
Own shares purchased by the Company, as part of Impairment charge 1.0 a share buy-back programme, are classified as treasury shares and their cost offset against the profit and loss account.
When As at 31 March 2017 1,808.4 treasury shares are cancelled, a transfer is made from the profit and loss account to the capital redemption reserve, equivalent to the nominal value of the shares purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cost of shares purchased by ESOP trusts are During the year the Company increased its investments in Burberry Haymarket Limited by 66.5m, Thomas Burberry Holdings offset against the profit and loss account, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
Limited by 16.3m and Burberry Limited by 13.9m.
As at 31 March 2017 the amount held as treasury shares by the Company and offset against the profit and loss reserve is The directors consider that the carrying value of the investments in subsidiaries is supported by their underlying net assets and 97.2m 2016: nil including stamp duty of 0.5m 2016: nil.
As at 31 March 2017 the Company held 6.7m treasury shares value generated by their operations.
The subsidiary undertakings and investments of the Burberry Group are listed in note 28 2016: nil, with a market value of 116.1m 2016: nil.
3.3m 2016: nil, relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased of the Group financial statements.
under the current share buy-back agreement, has been charged to the profit and loss account in the period, with the payment obligation recognised in other payables.
E. Trade and other receivables As at As at As at 31 March 2017 the amount of own shares held by ESOP trusts and offset against the profit and loss account is 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 44.7m 2016: 39.9m.
As at 31 March 2017, the ESOP trusts held 3.5m shares 2016: 3.1m in the Company, with a market m m value of 59.6m 2016: 42.7m.
In the year to 31 March 2017 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends Amounts owed by Group companies 423.2 496.4 of 1.7m 2016: 1.2m.
Prepayments 0.6 0.8 Trade and other receivables amounts falling due after more than one year 423.8 497.2 The capital reserve consists of the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
Amounts owed by Group companies 246.3 56.7 H. Dividends Prepayments 0.2 0.4 Year to Year to Trade and other receivables amounts falling due within one year 246.5 57.1 31 March 31 March Total trade and other receivables 670.3 554.3 2017 2016 m m Prior year final dividend paid 26.8p per share 2016: 25.5p 118.6 112.5 All amounts owed by Group companies are interest bearing.
Interim dividend paid 10.5p per share 2016: 10.2p 45.8 45.2 Total 164.4 157.7 The interest rate earned is based on relevant national LIBOR equivalents plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2017 of 28.4p 2016: 26.8p per share, amounting to 123.6m, has been proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final F. Creditors dividend has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on 4 August 2017 to shareholders on the As at As at 31 March 31 March register at the close of business on 7 July 2017.
Financial guarantees Amounts owed to Group companies 804.9 801.5 On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of third-party Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 804.9 801.5 banks.
At 31 March 2017, there were nil outstanding drawings 2016: nil.
During the year the Group exercised an option Amounts owed to Group companies 56.6 59.4 to extend the maturity of the facility to November 2021, after receiving consent from all members of the syndicate.
Other payables 3.3 Accruals 0.2 0.2 The companies acting as guarantor to the facility consist of Burberry Group plc, Burberry Limited, Burberry Asia Limited, Creditors amounts falling due within one year 60.1 59.6 Burberry Wholesale Limited US and Burberry Limited US.
The fair value of this financial guarantee as at 31 March 2017 Total creditors 865.0 861.1 is nil 2016: nil.
Amounts owed to Group companies falling due after more than one year are interest bearing.
The interest rate earned is based A potential liability may arise in the future if one of the Group members defaults on the loan facility.
Each guarantor, on LIBOR plus 0.5% to 0.9%.
These loans are unsecured and repayable between 17 June 2019 and 17 June 2020. including Burberry Group plc, would be liable to cover the amounts outstanding, including principal and interest elements.
Audit fees The Company has incurred audit fees of 0.1m for the current year which are borne by Burberry Limited 2016: 0.1m.
G. Called up share capital Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m K. Employee costs Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2016: 0.05p each The Company has no employees and therefore no employee costs are included in these financial statements for the year As at 1 April 2016 445,037,254 0.2 ended 31 March 2017 2016: nil.
