Alternative performance measures continued Free cash flow Normalised free cash flow is one of the groups key performance indicators by which our financial performance is measured.
Normalised free cash flow is defined as the net increase in cash and cash equivalents less: cash flows from financing activities except net interest paid, the acquisition or disposal of group undertakings and the net sale of short-term investments and excluding: the cash impact of specific items, purchases oftelecommunications licences, and the cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments.
For non-tax related items the adjustments are made on a pre-tax basis.
Normalised free cash flow is primarily a liquidity measure.
However, we also believe it is an important indicator of our overall operational performance as it reflects the cash we generate from operations after capital expenditure and financing costs, both of which are significant ongoing cash outflows associated with investing in our infrastructure and financing our operations.
In addition, normalised free cash flow excludes cash flows that are determined at a corporate level independently of ongoing trading operations such as dividends, share buybacks, acquisitions and disposals, and repayment and raising of debt.
Normalised free cash flow is not a measure of the funds that are available for distribution to shareholders.
A reconciliation from net cash inflow from operating activities, the most directly comparable IFRS measure, to free cash flow and normalised free cash flow, is set out below.
2017 2016 2015 Year ended 31 March m m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 6,174 5,151 4,788 Add back pension deficit payments 274 880 876 Included in cash flows from investing activities Net capital expenditure 3,119 2,431 2,310 Interest received 7 10 10 Net purchases sales of non-current asset investments and dividends received from associates and joint ventures 20 17 8 Included in cash flows from financing activities Interest paid 629 558 590 Free cash flow 2,687 3,069 2,782 Net cash outflow from specific items 205 232 154 Cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments 110 203 106 Normalised free cash flow 2,782 3,098 2,830 Net debt Net debt consists of loans and other borrowings both current and non-current, less current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents.
Loans and other borrowings are measured as the net proceeds raised, adjusted to amortise any discount over the term of the debt.
For the purpose of this measure, current asset investments and cash and cash equivalents are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Our net debt calculation starts from the expected future undiscounted cash flows that should arise when our financial instruments mature.
We adjust these cash flows to reflect hedged risks that are re-measured under fair value hedges, as well as for the impact of the effective interest method.
Currency-denominated balances within net debt are translated to Sterling at swap rates where hedged.
Net debt is a measure of the groups net indebtedness that provides an indicator of the overall balance sheet strength.
It is also a single measure that can be used to assess both the groups cash position and its indebtedness.
The use of the term net debt does not necessarily mean that the cash included in the net debt calculation is available to settle the liabilities included in this measure.
Net debt is considered to be an alternative performance measure as it is not defined in IFRS.
A reconciliation from loans and other borrowings, cash and cash equivalents, and current asset investments, the most directly comparable IFRS measures to net debt, is set out below.
2017 2016 2015 At 31 March m m m a Loans and other borrowings 12,713 14,761 10,176 Cash and cash equivalents 528 996 848 Current investments 1,520 2,918 3,523 10,665 10,847 5,805 Adjustments: b To retranslate currency denominated balances at swapped rates where hedged 1,419 652 357 c To remove fair value adjustments and accrued interest applied to reflect the effective interest method 314 357 335 Net debt 8,932 9,838 5,113 a Includes overdrafts of 17m at 31 March 2017 31 March 2016: 537m, 31 March 2015: 441m.
b The translation difference between spot rate and hedged rate of loans and borrowings denominated in foreign currency.
c Includes remaining fair value adjustments made on certain loans and other borrowings and accrued interest at the balance sheet date.
c Dividends per share represents the dividend paid and proposed in respect of the relevant financial year.
Under IFRS, interim dividends are recognised as a deduction from shareholders equity when they are paid, final dividends when they are approved.
d Based on actual dividends paid and or year end exchange rate on proposed dividends.
256 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Financial and operational statistics Financial statistics a b c c 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Year ended 31 March m m m m m d, e Decrease increase in underlying revenue excluding transit 0.2 % 1.9% 0.4 % 0.5% 3.1 % d, e Adjusted EBITDA 7,645 6,459 6,193 6,116 6,143 d Cash flow Free cash flow 2,687 3,069 2,782 2,171 2,292 Normalised free cash flow 2,782 3,098 2,830 2,450 2,300 d Net debt at 31 March 8,932 9,838 5,113 7,028 7,797 e Operating costs excluding depreciation and amortisation 16,437 12,420 11,647 12,171 12,196 Expenditure on research and development Research and development operating expense 61 73 87 170 279 Capitalised software development costs 457 399 421 365 265 Total expenditure on research and development 518 472 508 535 544 Capital expenditure Additions to property, plant and equipment comprised: Land and buildings 42 31 31 44 42 Network infrastructure Transmission equipment 1,592 1,531 1,463 1,126 1,170 Exchange equipment 126 41 33 24 32 Other network equipment 917 652 455 657 660 Other Computers and office equipment 119 48 85 112 80 Motor vehicles and other 22 19 75 8 24 Total additions to property, plant and equipment 2,818 2,322 2,142 1,971 2,008 Increase decrease in engineering stores 13 3 6 5 9 2,805 2,319 2,148 1,966 1,999 Software additions 621 412 561 506 454 Total capital expenditure before government grants 3,426 2,731 2,709 2,472 2,453 Government grants 28 109 392 126 15 Total capital expenditure net of government grants 3,454 2,622 2,317 2,346 2,438 Decrease increase in net payables and receivables 309 184 93 10 43 Cash outflow from capital expenditure before purchases of telecommunications licences 3,145 2,438 2,410 2,356 2,481 Purchases of telecommunications licences 202 Cash outflow from total capital expenditure 3,145 2,438 2,410 2,356 2,683 a Revised, see note 1. b Other than the decrease in underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 2014 15 has been revised.
d Defined on pages 252 to 254. e Before specific items.
PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 257 Financial and operational statistics continued Financial ratios a a b b Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 c Return on capital employed % 11.2 12.7 23.3 21.1 20.6 d Adjusted % 14.6 13.5 24.9 22.9 22.1 e Interest cover times 3.9 5.1 4.0 3.8 3.8 d Adjusted times 7.0 7.9 6.5 5.8 5.1 d Net debt to adjusted EBITDA times 1.2 1.5 0.8 1.1 1.3 d Capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue % 14.3 13.9 13.0 12.8 13.3 a Revised, see note 1. b As previously reported.
c The r atio is based on profit before taxation and net finance expense to capital employed.
Capital employed is represented by total assets less current liabilities excluding corporation tax, current borrowings, derivative financial liabilities and finance lease creditors less deferred and current tax assets, retirement benefit asset, cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial assets and investments.
e The number of times net finance expense is covered by operating profit.
258 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 259 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION a Operational statistics All values in thousands unless otherwise stated.
These are aligned with our operational performance measures that we publish on a quarterly basis.
b C onsumer revenue per-month, less mobile POLOs, less BT Sport revenue from: satellite customers paying for the channels, our wholesale deals and from commercial premises.
This is divided by the average number of primary lines.
c DSL and fibre excluding cable.
d Lines sold through BT lines of business include analogue lines and digital channels sold through Global Services, Business and Public Sector, Consumer, EE and Wholesale and Ventures.
258 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 259 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements Although BT believes that the expectations reflected in these This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements forward-looking statements are reasonable, it can give no assurance which are made in reliance on the safe harbour provisions of that these expectations will prove to have been correct.
Because the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These these statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual results may statements relate to analyses and other information which are based differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forwardon forecasts of future results and estimates of amounts not yet looking statements.
Factors that could cause differences between determinable.
These statements include, without limitation, those actual results and those implied by the forward-looking statements concerning: current and future years outlook: revenue and revenue include, but are not limited to: material adverse changes in economic trends: EBITDA: free cash flow: capital expenditure: shareholder conditions in the markets served by BT whether as a result of the returns including progressive dividends and share buyback: net uncertainties arising from the UKs exit from the EU or otherwise: debt: credit ratings: our group-wide restructuring programme, cost future regulatory and legal actions, decisions, outcomes of appeal transformation plans and restructuring costs: investment in and roll and conditions or requirements in BTs operating areas, including the out of our fibre network, and its reach, innovations, increased speeds outcome of Ofcoms strategic review of digital communications in and speed availability: our broadband-based service and strategy: the UK, as well as competition from others: the outcome of Ofcoms our investment in TV, enhancing our TV service and BT Sport: the Wholesale Local Access Market Review: responses to Openreach recovery plan, operating charge, regular cash contributions and consultations and the results of any future spectrum auctions: interest expense for our defined benefit pension schemes: effective selection by BT and its lines of business of the appropriate trading tax rate: growth opportunities in networked IT services, the pay-TV and marketing models for its products and services: technological services market, broadband, and mobility and future voice: growth innovations, including the cost of developing new products, networks of, and opportunities available in, the communications industry and and solutions and the need to increase expenditures for improving BTs positioning to take advantage of those opportunities: anticipated the quality of service: the anticipated benefits and advantages financial and other benefits to be realised from the EE acquisition: of new technologies, products and services not being realised: expectations regarding competition, market shares, prices and growth: developments in the convergence of technologies: external threats expectations regarding the convergence of technologies: plans for to cyber security, data or resilience: political and geo-political risks: the launch of new products and services: network performance and prolonged adverse weather conditions resulting in a material increase quality: the impact of regulatory initiatives, decisions and outcomes in overtime, staff or other costs or impact on customer service: the on operations, including the regulation of the UK fixed wholesale and timing of entry and profitability of BT in certain markets: significant retail businesses and the impact of Ofcoms Wholesale Local Access changes in market shares for BT or its principal products and services: Market Review: BTs possible or assumed future results of operations fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or interest rates: the and or those of its associates and joint ventures: investment plans: underlying assumptions and estimates made in respect of major adequacy of capital: financing plans and refinancing requirements: customer contracts proving unreliable: the aims of the anticipated demand for and access to broadband and the promotion of broadband savings from our restructuring programmes not being delivered: by third-party service providers: improvements to the control the aims of the group-wide restructuring programme not being environment: and those statements preceded by, followed by, or that achieved: the anticipated benefits and synergies of the EE integration include the words aims, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, not being delivered: the improvements to the control environment will, should plans, strategy, future, likely, seeks, projects, proposed following the investigations into BTs Italian business not estimates or similar expressions.
being implemented successfully or effectively: and general financial market conditions affecting BTs performance and ability to raise finance.
Certain of these factors are discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Annual Report including, without limitation, in Our risks on pages 44 to 55.
BT undertakes no obligation to update any forwardlooking statements whether written or oral that may be made from time to time, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
260 260 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 261 261 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Stock exchange listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the London Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
A. American Depositary Shares ADSs, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
In December 2015 BT changed the ratio of its NYSE-listed American Depositary Receipt ADR programme from the previous ratio of one ADR per ten ordinary shares to one ADR per five ordinary shares.
These changes to the ADR ratio have brought the ADR price broadly in line with the market average.
To implement the change, ADR holders on the record at the close of business on 30 November 2015 received two ADRs for every one ADR held.
There was no change to the underlying ordinary shares.
The prices are the highest and lowest closing middle market prices for BT ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest closing sales prices of ADSs, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar affect the US Dollar equivalent of the Sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Background BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
Its registered office address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of mmO2 from BT in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the businesses and assets of the group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public offerings.
b Under the B T Group Employee Share Investment Plan, 55.7m shares were held in trust on behalf of 42,854 participants who were beneficially entitled to the shares.
381.3m shares were held in the corporate nominee BT Group EasyShare on behalf of 92,115 beneficial owners.
c 154.1m shares were represented by ADSs.
An analysis by size of holding is not available for these.
d 7.6m shares were held as treasury shares.
e 7.45% of the shares were in 781,899 individual holdings, of which 50,855 were joint holdings, and 92.55% of the shares were in 8,752 institutional holdings.
As far as the company is aware, the company is not directly or indirectly owned or controlled by another corporation or by the UK Government or any other foreign government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly.
There are no arrangements known to the company, the operation of which may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the company.
The companys major shareholders do not have different voting rights to those of other shareholders.
At 8 May 2017, there were 9,968,127,681 ordinary shares outstanding, including 7,635,015 shares held as treasury shares.
At the same date, approximately 30.8m ADSs equivalent to 153.9m ordinary shares, or approximately 1.54% of the total number of ordinary shares outstanding on that date were outstanding and were held by 1,477 record holders of ADRs.
At 31 March 2017, there were 3,465 shareholders with a US address on the register of shareholders who in total hold 0.02% of the ordinary shares of the company.
262 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 263 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Dividends A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016 was paid on 5 September 2016 to shareholders on the register on 12August 2016, and an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017 was paid on 6 February 2017 to shareholders on the register on 30 December 2016.
The final proposed dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017, if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 4 September 2017 to shareholders on the register on 11 August 2017.
The dividends paid or payable on BT shares and ADSs for the last five financial years are shown in the following table.
The dividends on the ordinary shares exclude the associated tax credit.
The amounts shown are not those that were actually paid to holders of ADSs.
For the tax treatment of dividends paid, see Taxation of dividends on page 272.
Dividends have been translated from Sterling into US Dollars using exchange rates prevailing on the date the ordinary dividends were paid.
b Qualif ying holders of ADSs on record as of 11 August 2017 are entitled to receive the final dividend which will be paid to ADS holders on 12 September 2017, subject to approval at the AGM.
The US Dollar amount of the final dividend of 52.75 pence per ADS to be paid to holders of ADSs will be based on the exchange rate in effect on 4 September 2017, the date of payment to holders of ordinary shares.
As dividends paid by the company are in Sterling, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the US Dollar amounts received by holders of ADSs on conversion by the Depositary of such cash dividends.
Dividend mandate Any shareholder wishing dividends to be paid directly into a bank or building society account should contact the Shareholder Helpline see page 275, or go to the Shareholder information page of our website.
Dividends paid in this way will be paid through the Bankers Automated Clearing System BACS.
Share buyback Total number of shares Maximum number Total number Average price paid purchased as part of of shares yet to be of shares per share pence publicly announced purchased under the a b Calendar month purchased net of dealing costs plans or programmes AGM authority April 2016 nil n a nil 811,964,400 May 39,710,091 442 39,710,091 772,254,309 June nil n a nil 772,254,309 July 1,130,000 413 1,130,000 994,870,000 August 6,140,405 408 6,140,405 988,729,595 September nil n a nil 988,729,595 October nil n a nil 988,729,595 November nil n a nil 988,729,595 December nil n a nil 988,729,595 January 2017 nil n a nil 988,729,595 February nil n a nil 988,729,595 March nil n a nil 988,729,595 46,980,496 437 46,980,496 988,729,595 a P urchases made from 1 April 2015 to 15 July 2015 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM held on 16 July 2014.
Own share purchases by BT from 16 July 2015 to 31March 2016 were made in accordance with a resolution passed at the AGM on 15 July 2015. b Authority w as given to purchase up to 792m shares on 16 July 2014 and 837m shares on 15 July 2015.
These authorities expire at the close of the following AGM.
A total of 34m own shares were purchased during 2016 17.
Of these, 34m shares were purchased for a total consideration of 150m under the authority given at the 2015 AGM, and 12.9m shares were purchased by the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust for a consideration of 55m.
Please see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements for further details.
262 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 263 Information for shareholders continued Dividend investment plan Under the Dividend investment plan, cash from participants dividends is used to buy further BT shares in the market.
Shareholders could elect to receive additional shares in lieu of a cash dividend for the following dividends: Price per share Date paid pence 2011 12 interim 6 February 2012 216.39 2011 12 final 3 September 2012 223.15 2012 13 interim 4 February 2013 265.01 2012 13 final 2 September 2013 339.38 2013 14 interim 3 February 2014 385.76 2013 14 final 8 September 2014 387.00 2014 15 interim 9 February 2015 436.92 2014 15 final 7 September 2015 428.17 2015 16 interim 8 February 2016 469.41 2015 16 final 5 September 2016 394.44 2016 17 interim 6 February 2017 309.41 Global Invest Direct Details of the direct purchase plan run by the ADR Depositary, JPMorgan Chase & Co, Global Invest Direct, including reinvestment of dividends, are available from JPMorgan Chase & Co on 1 800 428 4237 toll free within the US, or on written request to the ADR Depositary.
Total shareholder return Total Shareholder Return TSR is the measure of the returns that a company has generated for its shareholders, reflecting both movement in the share price and dividends, which are assumed to be reinvested.
We compare this against indexes for the UK market FTSE100 and the European telecommunications sector FTSEurofirst 300 Telco Index.
BTs TSR for 2016 17 was negative 25.1%, compared with the market which was positive 23.3% and the sector which was negative 3.1%.
Over the last five financial years BTs TSR was positive 65.1%, compared with the markets TSR of positive 53.0% and the sectors TSR of positive 54.1%.
BTs TSR performance vs the FTSE100 and the Sector over the last 8 years 31 March 2009 100 850 750 650 550 450 350 250 150 100 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Mar 16 Mar 17 BT FTSE100 Sector Index Source: Datastream.
NB: Sector index is shown in Euro terms.
The performance in Sterling is 17% worse than the TSR performance in the graph shown above.
264 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 265 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Results announcements Expected announcements of results: a Results for the 2017 18 financial year Date 1st quarter 28 July 2017 2nd quarter and half year November 2017 3rd quarter and nine months February 2018 4th quarter and full year May 2018 Annual Report 2017 published May 2018 a Dates may be subject to change.
ShareGift Small parcels of shares, which may be uneconomic to sell on their own, can be donated to ShareGift the share donation charity Registered Charity number 1052686.
ShareGift transfers these holdings into their name, aggregates them, and uses the proceeds to support a wide range of UK registered charities based on donor suggestion.
They can also accept larger donations of shares.
If you would like further details about ShareGift, please visit www.
Exchange rates BT publishes its consolidated financial statements expressed in Sterling.
The following tables provide certain information concerning the exchange rates between Sterling and US Dollars based on the noon buying rate in New York City for cable transfers in Sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the Noon Buying Rate.
264 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 265 Information for shareholders continued Articles of Association Articles c Changes in capital The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, The company may by ordinary resolution: a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
A holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the nominal value: and relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares be evidenced by share certificates ie in certificated form or held in of a larger nominal value.
electronic ieuncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
The company may also: BT adopted new Articles of Association with effect from July i buy back its own shares: and 2015, to provide additional flexibility for BT when trying to trace ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital shareholders and to amend the provisions in line with the UK redemption reserve and any share premium account.
Corporate Governance code by providing for automatic retirement of all the directors at each AGM.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing a Voting rights an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general out of profits available for distribution.
If the Board considers that meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least thosedividends.
five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution to vote at the meeting.
authorising the directors to make this offer.
No person is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to the company.
to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public e Distribution of assets on winding up companies the power to require information with respect to interests If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days the authority of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide after delivery of that notice.
among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how theshares.
the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer b Variation of rights any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes then be finalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present can be varied or withdrawn either: shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or f Transfer of shares ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in Certificated shares of the company may be transferred in writing nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the proxy is a quorum.
register of members of the company.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights certificated form: previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered office or any other place the Board 266 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 267 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION decide.
The transfer must have with it: the share certificate services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which of a director.
the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is The directors may grant pensions or other benefits to, among executed by another person on behalf of the person making the others, any director or former director or persons connected with transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
However, BT can only provide these benefits to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using office or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary a relevant system as defined in the Uncertificated Securities undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve register a transfer of an uncertificated share in the circumstances this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
giving reasons for its decision.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than two months after the company receives the Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
g Untraced shareholders The company may sell any shares if the shares have been in issue If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: have become payable on them and have not been cashed and BT i in which the director has an interest of which the director is not has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give dividends by transmission.
BT must take all reasonable steps in the rise to a conflict of interest: circumstances, to trace shareholders.
This can include engaging an ii in which the director has an interest only because the director asset reunification company or other tracing agent to search for is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by shareholders who have not kept their details up-to date, or taking reason of any other interest in or through BT: any other steps the company considers appropriate.
Shareholders iii which involves: the giving of any security, guarantee or whose shares are sold following this process will not be able to claim indemnity to the director or any other person for money lent or the proceeds of the sale.
BT will be able to use the proceeds in any obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at way the Board from time to time thinks fit.
the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which h General meetings of shareholders is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least 21 clear days indemnity: written notice must be given for every annual general meeting.
For iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days written notice must any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription be given.
The Board can specify in the notice of meeting a time by or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to which a person must be entered on the register of shareholders in order participate as a holder of BT securities: or where the director will to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The time specified be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: must not be more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
v relating to any other company in which the director has an i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose otherwise involved in that company these rights do not apply registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of the notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give voting rights in that company: the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings j Directors which only gives the directors the same benefits that are Directors remuneration generally given to the employees or former employees to whom Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be the arrangement relates: paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability 65,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who the retail prices index as defined by section 833 2 Income and include directors: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for or actions against the director or the directors: in connection a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly with an application to the court for relief: or on defending incurred in connection with the business of the company.
the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring The Board can award extra fees to a director who: holds an executive expenditure as described in this paragraph: and position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
266 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 267 Information for shareholders continued Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can, by passing a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation an ordinary resolution, ratify any particular contract carried out in or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other breach of those provisions.
Directors appointment and retirement Definitions Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who The definitions apply to the following section titled: Acquisition of manage the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary EE summary of the principal terms.
this minimum and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and the shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint Acquisition: the acquisition by BT of EE a person who is willing to be elected as a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
Articles: the articles of association of BT in force from time to time At every annual general meeting, all directors must automatically Board: the Directors of the Company from time to time retire.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
BT Pension Scheme: BTs main defined benefit pension scheme In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the Buy-Back Resolution: the resolution to approve the buy-back of shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, Ordinary Shares from Deutsche Telekom and or Orange pursuant to even though his or her time in office has not ended.
They can elect a the CP Contracts person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by CP Contracts: the DT CP Contract and Orange CP Contract rotation when the director replaced would have been due to retire.
Company: BT Group plc Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board Completion: completion of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms of can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to the Share Purchase Agreement which occurred on 29 January 2016 mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and Consideration Shares: the Ordinary Shares to be issued by the give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, Company to the Sellers pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the Directors or Board of Directors: the directors of the Company whose companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable names appear in the section in the shareholder circular entitled by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intragroup among other Financial Investor: a Qualified Institutional Buyer as defined in Rule things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These borrowing powers 144A under the US Securities Act 1933 or a Qualified Investor may only be varied by amending the Articles.
as described in Section I 1 of Annex II to Directive 2004 39 EC, k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control other than any activist fund, or any company licensed as a BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under telecommunications operator or its affiliates the Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder is currently liable to make additional contributions of Ordinary Shares: the ordinary shares of nominal value 5 pence each capital in respect of BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no in the capital of the Company, including, if the context requires, the provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in England and Consideration Shares Wales that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
Sellers: Deutsche Telekom and Orange l Disclosure of interests in shares Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK Shareholder: a holder of Ordinary Shares and Shareholders shall be Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation construed accordingly on a person who acquires or ceases to have a notifiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company like BT to notify the Sponsor: JP Morgan Cazenove company of that fact.
These Rules also Transaction Documents: the Share Purchase Agreement, the deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures Relationship Agreement, the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement and of companies in which they are directors and certain associated the CP Contracts companies.
Under section 793 of the 2006 Act referred to in a above, BT may ascertain the persons who are or have within the last three years been interested in its shares and the nature of those Acquisition of EE summary of the principal interests.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes terms strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also Share Purchase Agreement on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
On 5 February 2015, the Share Purchase Agreement was entered into between the Company, the Sellers, who held 100% of the Material contracts issued share capital of EE on a combined basis, Deutsche Telekom The contracts summarised below not being entered into in the AG as guarantor of Deutsche Telekom and Orange SA as guarantor ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two years of Orange.
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Sellers preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of agreed to sell, and the Company agreed to acquire, the entire issued the group and are, or may be, material to the group or have been share capital of EE.
The Acquisition completed on 29January 2016. entered into by BT or another member of the group and contain 268 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 269 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 1.
Seller Warranties, Indemnities and Covenants The Sellers or the relevant members of their groups, BT, and EE 1.1 Warranties agreed appropriate conditions for the continued use of the Orange The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary warranties or T-Mobile as applicable brands by EE.
Such agreement included given by the Sellers, including in relation to authorisations, valid appropriate modifications to the existing brand licences to reflect obligations, filings and consents for the entry of the Sellers into the the change in ownership of EE, and continued use of the brands will Transaction Documents, and including in relation to the EE Group, be for the purpose of an orderly wind-down and extraction of the its share capital, accounts and financial condition, material licences Orange and T-Mobile brands from EEs business and subject to the and approvals, compliance with laws, condition and sufficiency continued payment of royalties.
of its network and assets, tax, material contracts, related party arrangements, litigation, IP and IT systems, employees and benefit BT has also undertaken to Deutsche Telekom AG to provide, from arrangements, pension schemes, real estate and ownership and Completion, a back-to-back guarantee of Deutsche Telekom AGs conduct of the MBNL joint venture arrangement.
guarantee to Hutchison, to a maximum value of 750 million.
Deutsche Telekom AGs existing arrangement guarantees EEs obligations in 1.2 Indemnities respect of any liability incurred by EE under the MBNL joint operation.
The Sellers agreed, amongst other things, to indemnify BT in the event that BT suffers loss as a result of certain regulatory fines being 4.
Guarantee levied against BT or the EE Group, and against losses suffered by BT or Deutsche Telekom AG agreed to guarantee the performance by the EE Group as a result of certain other investigations and disputes.
Deutsche Telekom, and Orange S. A. agreed to guarantee the performance by Orange, of their respective obligations under the The warranties and indemnities given by the Sellers are subject to Share Purchase Agreement.
customary financial and other limitations.
Relationship Agreement with Deutsche Telekom AG and The Share Purchase Agreement contains customary covenants DeutscheTelekom restricting the Sellers from competing with EEs business for a period At Completion, BT entered into the Relationship Agreement with of three years following Completion subject to customary exceptions Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, which regulates for existing businesses and financial investments and from soliciting aspects of the ongoing relationship between BT, Deutsche Telekom employees of the EE Group for a period of two years following AG and the Deutsche Telekom Group.
Completion subject to customary exceptions.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate if a the Ordinary Shares The Share Purchase Agreement also contains a customary tax are no longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official covenant in respect of liability for taxes due pre and post-Completion.
List and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities or b the Deutsche Telekom Group ceases to be 2.
Company Warranties and Indemnity interested in more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
The Share Purchase Agreement contains warranties given by the Company as to, amongst other things, its capacity and authority The Relationship Agreement contains, among other things, to enter into and perform its obligations under the Transaction undertakings from Deutsche Telekom AG that for such period as the Documents, compliance by the Company in all material respects with Deutsche Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share certain laws and regulations, the availability of financing for the cash capital of BT: element of the consideration for the Acquisition, the accuracy of its public filings, and there having been no material adverse change to i transactions and arrangements between BT and the Deutsche its financial position since its last accounts date.
Telekom Group will be entered into on an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms: BT also agreed that it will indemnify the Sellers in the event that ii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will they suffer loss as a result of BT having taken certain actions in take any action that would have the effect of preventing BT respect of the EE defined benefit pension scheme or the BT defined from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and benefit pension scheme but in relation to the BT Pension Scheme, iii neither it nor any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group will only where Deutsche Telekom is identified as being connected to propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which BT by virtue of the appointment of a Director to the Board by the is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper Deutsche Telekom Group.
application of the Listing Rules the Independence Provisions.
The warranties and indemnity given by BT are subject to customary Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes to procure the compliance of its financial and other limitations.
group members with the Independence Provisions.
Standstill Provisions The Sellers and BT agreed the scope and terms of certain transitional The Relationship Agreement contains standstill provisions pursuant services arrangements required after Completion.
The purpose of to which Deutsche Telekom AG undertakes on behalf of itself and these transitional services agreements is to document any services the Deutsche Telekom Group for a period of three years from the that are currently provided by a party or a member of its group date of the Relationship Agreement the Initial Standstill Period, and that the recipient of those services wishes to continue to subject to certain exceptions, not to: receive for a transitional period from Completion.
Any services that a service recipient elects to continue to receive from Completion will i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other be provided on the current terms or agreement applicable to the securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of provision and receipt of those services.
Unless otherwise agreed, the Deutsche Telekom Group and any of its concert parties the maximum term of each service is between six and 18 months increases above 12% of Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: depending on the type of service.
ii act in concert with any person with respect to the holding, voting or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: 268 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 269 Information for shareholders continued iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in Financial Investors, provided that any transferee enters into a a particular manner at any meeting of Shareholders: or lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill 4.
Prior to any Disposal by Deutsche Telekom AG, Deutsche Telekom or any of their group members in accordance with paragraph 3 iii The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include circumstances: above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is i where the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires an interest in any set out in the DT CP Contract.
shares or other securities of BT from the Orange Group provided that such acquisition does not increase the aggregate interest of Pursuant to the DT CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group and its concert parties above 15% Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a of the Ordinary Shares in issue: notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed to ii where the Deutsche Telekom Group announces an offer under be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which to Rule 2.7 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers the Code make an offer for all of the Ordinary Shares detailed in the notice, or or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under Rule 9 else its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the the selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months Directors of BT: of the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than iii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The DT or not: and CP Contract will terminate 18 months from Completion.
iv where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Deutsche Telekom Group takes up its rights to subscribe The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a close for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does Under the Relationship Agreement, Deutsche Telekom AG not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within undertakes, among other things, that for a period of two years which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT will from the expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, in the event that not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
the Deutsche Telekom Group acquires other than as a result of a reduction or re-organisation of share capital or re-purchase of When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation shares or other securities of BT any Shares in excess of 15% of the to Ordinary Shares held by Orange and Orange SA, the maximum Ordinary Shares in issue the Excess Shares, it shall procure that amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire by exercise of its rights of the votes attaching to such Excess Shares shall be exercised subject first offer is approximately 14% of BTs share capital on an enlarged to the provisions of the Code and applicable law or regulation in basis post-Acquisition.
The price at which Ordinary Shares can be accordance with the recommendation of the Board of Directors of bought back shall be no more than the higher of the closing price BT on all shareholder resolutions which relate to a transfer of an of the Ordinary Shares on i the date on which BT makes an offer interest in Ordinary Shares carrying in aggregate 30% or more of to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii the last trading day before the voting rights of BT and on all special resolutions of BT.
After the buy-back takes place.
In addition, BT has separately undertaken expiry of the Initial Standstill Period, the Deutsche Telekom Group to give the Sponsor prior notice of its intention to make an offer will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
for Ordinary Shares under the DT CP Contract, to consult with the Sponsor regarding such offer and not to make such offer unless at 3.
Lock-up Provisions the relevant time the Board, having been so advised by the Sponsor, The Relationship Agreement contains lock-up provisions pursuant to considers such offer to be fair and reasonable as far as Shareholders which Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom undertake for a are concerned.
After expiry of the lock-up period described period of 18 months from the date of the Relationship Agreement, above, the Deutsche Telekom Group will be free to dispose of its subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their group shareholding in BT without further restriction.
members will, directly or indirectly, offer, sell, contract to sell, grant 5.
Rights of Deutsche Telekom AG or sell options over, purchase any option or contract to sell, transfer, Under the Relationship Agreement, subject to compliance with any charge, pledge, grant any right or warrant or otherwise transfer, applicable regulatory requirements, Deutsche Telekom AG is able lend or dispose of any shares in BT or any securities convertible to appoint one Non-Executive Director the Deutsche Telekom into or exercisable or exchangeable for such shares, or announce or Representative Director to the Board for so long as the Deutsche otherwise publish an intention to do any of the foregoing each of Telekom Group holds 10% or more of the issued share capital of BT the above activities being a Disposal.
The exceptions include: provided that, if the shareholding is reduced below 10% as a result i where Deutsche Telekom AG or Deutsche Telekom accepts any of a non-pre-emptive share issuance by BT, the board appointment offer by a third party for the whole of the ordinary share capital right shall continue for as long as the Deutsche Telekom Group holds of BT, whether by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or at least 8% of BTs shares but provided further that such reduced provides an irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept shareholding shall not have occurred as a result of the Deutsche or vote in favour of any such offer: Telekom Group selling Ordinary Shares, and also provided that the ii any Disposal to any member of the Deutsche Telekom Group, Deutsche Telekom Group must top up to 10% within 12 months provided that the transferee agrees to be bound by the or the right will lapse.
Any such appointment shall be made in restrictions of the Relationship Agreement: and consultation with the BT Nominating & Governance Committee and iii any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial the appointee must be approved by the BT Chairman such approval Investor of no more than 5% each of the Ordinary Shares in not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
issue of BT or, on one occasion only, the sale of two stakes of not more than 5% each at the same time to two different 270 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 271 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Relationship Agreement provides for the establishment of a ii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of new committee of BT the Conflicted Matters Committee which the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of shall assess whether and to what extent the Board papers and Board BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT meetings of BT are likely to consider or refer to any matter in respect or not: and of which the Conflicted Matters Committee believes that either: iii where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Orange Group takes up its rights to subscribe i BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group are competitors: or for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
ii there is an actual or potential conflict of interest between BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group a Conflicted Matter.
After expiry of the standstill period, the Orange Group will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
The Conflicted Matters Committee shall comprise of at least three members including at all times the Secretary to the Board, the 3.
Lock-up Provisions Head of Competition and Regulatory Law and the Director of The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains lock-up provisions Governance.
The Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not pursuant to which Orange SA and Orange undertake for a period of be a member of the Conflicted Matters Committee.
The Deutsche 12 months from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement, Telekom Representative Director shall not attend any Board meeting subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their of BT unless a senior compliance officer of Deutsche Telekom AG has group members will, directly or indirectly, effect any Disposal.
The received prior confirmation that the Conflicted Matters Committee exceptions include: has considered whether such attendance raises any concerns in relation to a Conflicted Matter.
In the event that the Conflicted i any Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group: Matters Committee has a serious or immediate concern in relation to a ii where Orange SA or Orange accepts any offer by a third party Conflicted Matter, the Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT, whether not attend any Board meetings in relation to the Conflicted Matter and by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an shall not receive any information in relation to the Conflicted Matter.
irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: Deutsche Telekom AG is also entitled to receive, subject to compliance iii any Disposal to any member of the Orange Group, provided by BT with its legal and regulatory obligations, such financial or other that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of the information in relation to the BT Group as is necessary or reasonably Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: required by Deutsche Telekom AG in order to comply with its iv any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial reporting requirements and legal, regulatory or tax obligations.
Investor of up to all the shares of BT in which the Orange Group has an interest, provided that the transferee enters into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA and Orange lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up 1.
Standstill and Lock-up Agreement provisions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: and BT entered into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA v if the Orange Group owns 2% or less of the issued ordinary and Orange on Completion, which regulates the ability of the Orange share capital of the Company, any Disposal which is by way of a Group to deal in shares and other securities of BT.
The Standstill and swap or other agreement to transfer the economic ownership of Lock-up Agreement terminates if a the Ordinary Shares are no the shares.
longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market 4.
Orange CP Contract for listed securities or b the Orange Group ceases to be interested in Prior to any Disposal by Orange SA, Orange or any of their group more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
members, in accordance with paragraph 3 iv above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing 2.
Standstill Provisions of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in the Orange The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains standstill provisions CP Contract.
pursuant to which Orange SA undertakes on behalf of itself and its group for a period of three years from the date of the Standstill and Pursuant to the Orange CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, not to: to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of to make an offer for all of the shares detailed in the notice, or else the Orange Group and its concert parties increases above 4% of its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, the Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months of ii act in concert with any person in respect of the holding, voting the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within a particular manner at any meeting of the Shareholders: or three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, Orange CP Contract will terminate 12 months from Completion.
consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill Provisions.
The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include: Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within i where the Orange Group announces an offer under Rule 2.7 of which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT will the Code or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT: When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation to Ordinary Shares held by Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire 270 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 271 Information for shareholders continued by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BTs Taxation of dividends share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no more than at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date ordinary shares or ADSs is resident for UK tax purposes in the UK on which BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, the last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
After expiry of profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency, or, the lock-up period described above, the Orange Group will be free to in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, dispose of its shareholding in BT without further restriction.
the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible shares or ADSs by US Holders as defined below who hold their in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value of the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary.
In the case of ADSs, of US federal income tax law, including: US expatriates: insurance a US Holder who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the date of companies: tax-exempt organisations: banks: regulated investment receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A companies: financial institutions: securities broker-dealers: traders US Holder who does not convert Sterling into US Dollars on the date in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting: of receipt generally will have a tax basis in Sterling equal to their persons subject to alternative minimum tax: investors that directly, US Dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other share capital or voting power of BT: persons holding their ordinary disposition of Sterling generally will be US source ordinary income or shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or loss.
In addition, in a situation where US holders receive distributions conversion transaction: persons who acquired their ordinary of previously taxed earnings and profits, foreign currency gain or loss shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as will generally be recognised as the same source as the associated compensation: or persons whose functional currency is not the US income included under Subpart F rules for US federal income tax Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal purposes.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States: a corporation dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax income from sources outside the US and generally will constitute purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United passive income.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit States or any political subdivision thereof: an estate the income with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does sources, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision not reduce US federal income tax on a Dollar for Dollar basis like a over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a applicable to foreign credits.
partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and Following recent changes in UK tax law effective from 6 April the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that 2016, UK tax credits no longer attach to any dividends paid on the holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax adviser ordinary shares or ADSs, irrespective of the domicile or residence of regarding the specific tax consequences of owning and disposing of the shareholder.
No question therefore arises as to the entitlement the ordinary shares or ADSs.
of any US Holder to any UK tax credit.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum of 20% in and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal respect of qualified dividend income.
There could also be a 3.8% net Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury investment income tax on dividends to individuals and other nonregulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all corporate holders with income above a certain amount.
For these as currently in effect and available, ii the United Kingdom-United purposes, qualified dividend income generally includes dividends States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders United Kingdom-United States Tax Convention that entered into meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or all as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, all of which ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with tradable on an established securities market in the US, or ii the retroactive effect.
non-US corporation is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for US Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and qualified dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax adviser regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
272 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 273 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Taxation of capital gains passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident for UK tax for the tax year ended 31 March 2017.
If BT were to become a PFIC purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, These consequences may include having gains realised on the agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation, the charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, ordinary shares and or ADSs.
dividends paid by BT would not be qualified dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident Holders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the potential for tax purposes in the UK on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls application of the PFIC rules to BT.
to be regarded as resident outside the UK for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 US information reporting and backup withholding and continues to not be resident in the UK or continues to be Treaty Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a also be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains, current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these resident in the UK or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
In addition, non-corporate US Holders may be required to report their investment on a Form For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will 8938.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other who provides a correct taxpayer identification number or certificate disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the of foreign status and makes any other required certification or who difference between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt US Dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term Identification Number and Certification.
Holders that are not capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more US persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US However, such holders may be required to provide certification of federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital non-US status in connection with payments received in the US or losses is subject to significant limitations.
Non-corporate US Holders through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
may also be subject to a 3.8% tax on net investment income in respect of any gains.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share or ADS will generally be income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess its US Dollar cost.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share or ADS amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US Dollar value filing the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement any required information.
date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares or ADSs traded on an established securities market, as defined in the applicable UK stamp duty Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis US Holder A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
Such an election by generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration to year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5. amount realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also ADSs for an amount in foreign currency will be the US Dollar value the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary of this amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts any between the US Dollar value of the amount received based on gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares or issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No ADS traded on an established securities market that are sold by a UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on are executed and always retained outside the UK.
the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a Passive foreign investment company status consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability A non-US corporation will be classified as a passive foreign to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the investment company a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
272 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 273 Information for shareholders continued The above statements are intended as a general guide to the In addition, during our integration of the EE business, we discovered current position.
Certain categories of person including recognised a roaming agreement between EE and Syriatel Mobile Telecom, an market makers, brokers and dealers may not be liable to stamp entity designated under UK EU sanctions.
Following an internal duty or SDRT or may, although not liable for the tax, be required investigation, we ceased providing services under the agreement to notify and account for it under the Stamp Duty Reserve Tax and made a voluntary disclosure to HM Treasury.
investigating whether there are additional implications under other sanctions regimes.
EE is now fully subject to BTs sanctions UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares compliance policies and procedures.
and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not Limitations affecting security holders be taken without advice specific to the individuals circumstances.
There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs legislation which have a material effect on the import or export of by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US as defined in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK Holders.
inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid otherwise than as a result of a specific There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of nonexemption, deduction, exclusion, credit or allowance.
residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Further note on certain activities In addition, under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to disclose whether BT or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities.
Disclosure is required even when the activities were conducted outside the US by non-US entities and even when they were conducted in compliance with applicable law.
During 2016 17, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, other Communication Providers, news organisations, multinational corporations and other customers that require global communications connectivity, are insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
BT has a contract in place with Telecommunication Infrastructure Company TIC, to make and receive voice calls from Iran to the UK.
BT entered into a Framework Agreement with Rafsanjan Industrial Complex RIC for business consultancy services in May 2010 and provided an initial consultancy engagement under phase 1 of the agreement.
In February 2011, phase 2 was agreed with RIC however BT stopped work in December 2011 due to the geopolitical situation.
RIC made an advance payment to BT of 384,120 to carry out the phase 2 work.
We continue to explore whether the amount can be refunded.
BTs subsidiary, EE the acquisition of which was completed on 29 January 2016, has in place roaming partner agreements with Mobile Company of Iran MCI, and Taliya Company also known as Rafsanjan Industrial Complex.
These bilateral agreements allow the transmission of mobile calls.
There has been no traffic with Taliya in 2016 17.
The amounts received by EE under these contracts were less than 405,000.
In addition, EE also exchanges SMS traffic with MCI, Mobile Telecommunications Company of Esfahan and Telecommunication Kish Company.
The amounts received by EE under these contracts were less than 6,500.
274 274 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Documents on display Shareholder Helpline All reports and other information that BT files with the US Securities Tel: Freefone 0808 100 4141 and Exchange Commission SEC may be inspected at the SECs public Fax: 01903 833371 reference facilities at Room 1580, 100 F Street NE, Washington, Textphone: Freefone 0800 169 6907 DC 20549, US.
From outside the UK: These reports may be accessed via the SECs website at Tel: 44 121 415 7178 www.
co. uk BT produces a series of reports on the companys financial, compliance, and social and environmental performance.
The Registrar Equiniti Aspect House Document Publication date Spencer Road Notice of meeting May Lancing West Sussex Annual Report & Form 20-F May BN99 6DA Delivering our purpose report May EAB Annual Report May www.
com Expected quarterly results releases July, October, January and May ADR Depositary Current Cost Financial Statements July JPMorgan Chase & Co PO Box 64504 The Way We Work, a statement of July St Paul, MN 55164-0854, US business practice Tel: 1 800 990 1135 General For printed copies, when available, contact the Shareholder Helpline or 1 651 453 2128 From outside the US on Freefone 0808 100 4141 or contact our Registrars in the UK, at or 1 800 428 4237 Global Invest Direct the address opposite.
com Most of these reports as well as the EAB Annual Report on BTs compliance with the Undertakings can be accessed online at General enquiries www.
com aboutbt More detailed disclosures on BTs BT Group plc implementation of social, ethical and environmental policies and BT Centre procedures are available online through our independently verified 81 Newgate Street sustainability report at www.
com deliveringourpurpose London EC1A 7AJ United Kingdom Electronic communication Shareholders can choose to receive their shareholder documents Tel: 020 7356 5000 electronically rather than by post.
Tel: 44 1793 596 931 from outside the UK Shareholders may elect to receive documents in this way by going Institutional investors, financial and industry analysts to www.
com signup and following the online instructions, or by Institutional investors and financial analysts may contact BT Investor calling the Shareholder Helpline.
Relations on: Tel: 020 7356 4909 Shareholder communication email: ir@bt.
com BT is committed to communicating openly with each of its stakeholder audiences in the manner most appropriate to their Industry analysts and consultants may contact BT Analyst requirements.
Relations on: Tel: 020 7356 4909 All investors can visit our website at www.
com investorcentre email: industryenquiry@bt.
com for more information about BT.
There are direct links from this page to sites providing information particularly tailored for shareholders, institutional investors, financial analysts, industry analysts and Find out more about the BT Supplier Finance journalists.
com You can find out more about the Better Payment Private shareholders Practice Code at: www.
co. uk If private shareholders have any enquiries about their shareholding, they should contact our Registrars, Equiniti, at the address below.
com TheWayWeWork Equiniti maintain BT Groups share register and the separate BT Group EasyShare register.
They also provide a Shareholder Helpline service on Freefone 0808 100 4141.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 275 Cross reference to Form 20-F The information in this document that is referred to in the following table shall be deemed to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes.
None of the websites referred to in this Annual Report 2017, including where a link is provided, nor any of the information contained on such websites is incorporated by reference in the Form 20-F.
Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 3 Key information 3A Selected financial data Selected financial data 255 Information for shareholders Exchange rates 265 4 Information on the company 4A History and development of the company Lines of business 56 Information for shareholders Background 261 Group performance Capital expenditure 97 General information Capital management and funding policy 150 a 4B Business overview Review of the year 3 How were organised 8 How were doing 17 What we do 24 Our networks and physical assets 30 Research and development 32 Brand and reputation 34 Stakeholders 34 Protecting the environment 41 Our performance as a sustainable and responsible business 43 Lines of business 56 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Segment information 182 Financial and operational statistics Operational statistics 259 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 260 Information for shareholders Further note on certain activities 274 4C Organisational structure Operating Committee 14 Our business model 22 Lines of business 56 Related undertakings 238 4D Property, plants and equipment Our networks and physical assets 30 Properties 31 Protecting the environment 41 Our performance as a sustainable and responsible business 43 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Property, plant and equipment 198 Financial and operational statistics Financial statistics 257 276 276 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 277 277 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 5 Operating and financial review and prospects 5A Operating results Lines of business 56 b c Group performance 91 Our relationship with HM Government 38 Regulation 38 Protecting the environment 41 Our performance as a sustainable and responsible business 43 Alternative performance measures 252 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 260 b c 5B Liquidity and capital resources Group performance 91 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 260 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Loans and other borrowings 218 Financial instruments and risk management 222 Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 229 5C Research and development, patents and licences Research and development 32 Financial and operational statistics Financial statistics 257 b c 5D Trend information Group performance 91 Selected financial data 255 Information for shareholders Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements 260 5E Off-balance sheet arrangements General information Off-balance sheet arrangements 150 5F Tabular disclosure of contractual obligations Group performance Contractual obligations and commitments 102 6 Directors, senior management and employees 6A Directors and senior management Board of Directors 106 The Board 108 6B Compensation Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 122 Focus on Remuneration 123 Annual Remuneration Report 125 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Retirement benefit plans 204 Share-based payments 215 6C Board practices Board of Directors 106 The Board 108 Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 122 Focus on Remuneration 123 Remuneration Principles 124 Annual Remuneration Report 125 Remuneration Policy 139 6D Employees Our people 26 Group performance Income statement Operating costs 94 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Employees 187 6E Share ownership Reports of the Board committees Report on Directors Remuneration 122 Focus on Remuneration 123 276 276 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 277 277 Cross reference to Form 20-F continued Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page Annual Remuneration Report 125 Remuneration Policy 139 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Share-based payments 215 7 Major shareholders and related party transactions 7A Major shareholders Shareholders and Annual General Meeting Relations with shareholders Substantial shareholdings 152 Information for shareholders Analysis of shareholdings at 31 March 2017 262 7B Related party transactions Directors information Interest of management in certain transactions 147 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Related party transactions 229 8 Financial information 8A Consolidated statements and other financial information See Item 18 below General information Legal proceedings 150 Group performance c Dividends 96 Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial commitments and contingent liabilities 229 Information for shareholders Dividends 263 Articles of Association Articles Dividends 266 8B Significant changes Directors information Going concern 146 9 The offer and listing 9A Offer and listing details Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings Share and ADS prices 261 9C Markets Information for shareholders Stock exchange listings 261 10 Additional information 10B Memorandum and articles of association Information for shareholders Articles of Association Articles 266 10C Material contracts Information for shareholders Material contracts 268 10D Exchange controls Information for shareholders Limitations affecting security holders 274 10E Taxation Information for shareholders Taxation US Holders 272 10H Documents on display Information for shareholders Documents on display 275 11 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Significant accounting policies Financial instruments 181 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Financial instruments and risk management 222 278 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 279 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Required item in Form 20-F Where information can be found in this Annual Report Item Section Page 15 Controls and procedures General information US Regulation 148 UK Internal control and risk management 149 Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements United States opinion 164 16A Audit committee financial expert General information US Regulation US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 148 16B Code of ethics General information US Regulation US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 148 16C Principal accountants fees and services Consolidated financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements Audit, audit related and other non-audit services 188 Reports of the Board Committees Audit & Risk Committee Chairmans report 112 16E Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and Information for shareholders Share buyback affiliated purchasers 263 16G Corporate Governance General information US Regulation New York Stock Exchange 148 18 Financial statements Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements United States opinion 164 Financial statements 153 a Excluding the information under the heading Outlook on page 7. b Excluding the paragraph beginning For 2017 18 on page 91, the information under the sub-heading Outlook for 2017 18 on page 92 and the paragraph beginning Our outlook for normalised free cash flow... on page 93. c Excluding the last sentence ending in... in our Outlook on page 92. under the sub-heading Dividends on page 96.
278 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 279 Glossary of terms 2G: the second generation of mobile telephony systems.
It Dark fibre: an unlit fibre-only connection provided with uses digital transmission to support voice, low-speed data no associated electronics.
communications and short messaging services.
3G: the third generation of mobile systems.
It provides high-speed data transmission and supports multimedia DSL: digital subscriber line a broadband service where applications like video, audio and internet access as well as existing wires between the local telephone exchange and conventional voice services.
a customers telephone sockets are transformed into a high-speed digital line.
4G: the fourth generation of mobile systems.
It is designed to provide faster data download and upload speeds on mobile networks.
EAD: Ethernet access direct a point-to-point access 5G: the coming fifth generation wireless broadband product in the Openreach Ethernet portfolio offering technology which will provide better speeds and coverage high bandwidth connectivity, linking end-user sites, than the current 4G.
communications provider networks and BT exchanges.
Ethernet: high-capacity, high-speed digital connections available throughout the UK.
They tend to be used by ADSL: asymmetric digital subscriber line a digital businesses and offices for which a domestic connection technology that allows the use of a standard telephone line is inadequate when large numbers of devices have to be to provide high-speed data communications.
ARPU: average revenue per user.
BDUK: Broadband Delivery UK the UK Government body Flexible Co-mingling: allows CPs to place their equipment charged with helping to oversee the use of public money in our exchanges.
for rolling out fibre broadband in harder-to-reach parts of the country.
FTTC: fibre-to-the-cabinet a variant of GEA which uses fibre to provide high connection speeds from the exchange BTPS: BT Pension Scheme the defined benefit pension to a street cabinet near to a customer premises, and a scheme which was closed to new members on 31 March copper line for the final connection to the premises.
FTTP:  a variant of GEA which uses BTRSS: BT Retirement Saving Scheme the scheme set up fibre to provide high connection speeds for the whole route on 1 April 2009 as a successor to the BT Retirement Plan.
from the exchange to the customer.
It is a contract-based, defined contribution arrangement.
G. Fast: an innovative technology that uses higher CI: continuous improvement a complementary frequencies than FTTC to provide faster broadband speeds bottom-up approach, empowering our people to make over copper.
small but significant changes to improve customer service and employee engagement while reducing the cost of GEA: generic Ethernet access Openreachs wholesale fibre failure.
Cloud of Clouds: Global Services portfolio strategy which brings together its six core product families and a network of partners to support the delivery of global network and IT IoT: internet of things the interconnection via the infrastructure services.
internet of computing devices embedded in everyday objects, enabling them to send and receive data.
CP: communications provider a provider of communications services telephony, broadband, video on IP: internet protocol a packet-based protocol for demand and other services.
delivering data including voice and video across networks.
IPTV: internet protocol television the combination of broadcast content with broadband content, delivering both through the television.
IPX: IP exchange a telecommunications interconnection model for the exchange of IP-based traffic between customers of separate mobile and fixed operators.
280 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 281 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ladder pricing: Ladder pricing links the amounts that BT PCP: primary connection point.
charges mobile operators for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 numbers terminating on our network to the PIA: passive infrastructure access this occurs when one retail price charged by mobile operators to their customers.
company accesses ducts owned by another and installs its own fibre optic or other cables.
LLU: local loop unbundling the process by which CPs can rent the copper lines between BTs exchanges and POLOs: payments to other licensed operators typically customer premises from Openreach to provide voice and refers to payments by one CP to another CP when broadband services using their own equipment.
terminating voice traffic on their network to carry the call to the customer receiving the call.
PoPs: points of presence this refers to a location in a city M2M: machine-to-machine M2M communications where we have the ability to connect customers to one of refers to connecting electronic devices to one another.
This can streamline processes and enable tasks to be automated.
PPC: partial private circuit a generic term used to describe a category of private circuits that terminate at a Managed Ethernet Access Service: a product that point of connection between two operators networks.
uses pseudo-wire technology to carry Ethernet traffic between the mobile operators cell and core sites in a single converged packet network.
RFT: Right First Time the internal measure of whether we MBNL: Mobile Broadband Network Limited is a joint are keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or venture arrangement between EE Limited and Hutchison exceeding their expectations.
3G UK Limited with each company owning a 50% share.
MiiS: mobile infill infrastructure solution lets CPs install SDN: software defined networking one of the new their radio equipment in special cabinets linked to antennas generation of networking technologies that are giving us a on telephone poles and use their spectrum to improve new way to build and manage corporate networks that are mobile coverage.
MPF: metallic path facility a circuit comprising a pair of SEP: superfast extension programme.
twisted metal wires between an end-users premises and a main distribution frame.
SIP: session initiation protocol a method for creating, modifying and terminating sessions with one or more MPLS: multi-protocol label switching supports the rapid participants.
These include internet telephone calls, transmission of data across network routers, enabling multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences.
modern networks to achieve high quality of service.
SIP Trunk: this replaces the need for traditional analogue, MSL: minimum service level set by Ofcom in relation to T1-based Public Switched Telephone Network connections the quality of service that Openreach offers.
with termination instead provided over a companys public or private internet connection through a SIP provider.
MVNO: mobile virtual network operator an arrangement where a retailer sells mobile services under SMPF: shared metallic path facility access to the its own brand but uses a mobile network owned by non-voiceband frequencies of the metallic path facility.
another operator to do so.
SVoD: subscription video on demand.
Ofcom: the independent regulator and competition authority in the UK communications industries, with responsibilities across television, radio, telecommunications and wireless communications services.
Undertakings: legally-binding commitments BT made to Ofcom, designed to bring greater transparency and certainty to the regulation of the telecommunications industry in the UK.
They led to the formation of Openreach.
280 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 281 Glossary of terms continued VDSL: very high speed DSL a high-speed variant of DSL technology.
It provides a high headline speed by reducing the length of the access line copper by connecting to fibre at the cabinet.
VoIP: voice over internet protocol a method of transporting speech over the internet.
VPN: virtual private network a secure way to create an apparent dedicated network between nodes over a network infrastructure, which is in reality shared with other services.
WAN: wide area network a computer network that exists over a relatively large geographical area that connects two or more smaller networks.
This enables computers and users in one location to communicate with computers and users in other locations.
WLR: wholesale line rental a product supplied by Openreach which is used by other CPs to offer telephony services using their own brand, pricing structure and billing, but using BTs network.
282 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Notes Notes Notes Notes Notes Notes In this document, references to BT Group, BT, the group, thecompany, we or our are to BT Group plc which includes the activities of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries and lines of business, internal service unit, or any of them as the context mayrequire.
A reference to a year expressed as 2016 17 is to the financial year ended 31 March 2017 and a reference to a year expressed as 2017 is to the calendar year.
This convention applies similarly to any reference to a previous or subsequent year.
References to this year, the year and the current year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
References to last year and prior year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
BT Group plc Registered ofce: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4190816 Produced by BT Group PHME 80256 Printed in England by Pindar Scarborough Ltd Design by emperor.
works Typeset by Donnelley Financial Solutions Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is made from 50% fide-inked, post-consumer waste and 50% virgin bre www.
