Shareholder Information Shareholder Information General shareholder enquiries Dividends Enquiries relating to shareholdings, such as the transfer of An interim dividend for the financial year ended 31 March shares, change of name or address, lost share certificates 2017 of 10.5p per ordinary share was paid on 27 January or dividend cheques, should be referred to the Companys 2017.
A final dividend of 28.4p per share has been proposed Registrar, Equiniti, using the details below: and, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 13 July 2017, will be paid according to the following timetable: Equiniti Aspect House Final dividend record date 7 July 2017 Spencer Road Deadline for return of DRIP mandate forms 14 July 2017 Lancing Final dividend payment date 4 August 2017 West Sussex BN99 6DA The ADR local payment date will be approximately five business days after the proposed dividend payment date Tel: 0371 384 2839.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, for ordinary shareholders.
Dividends can be paid by BACS directly into a UK Please dial 44 121 415 7047 if calling from outside the bank account, with the tax voucher being sent to the UK or see help.
co. uk for additional information.
This is the easiest way for shareholders to receive dividend payments and avoids the American Depositary Receipts risk of lost or out of date cheques.
A dividend mandate Burberry has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary form is available from Equiniti or at www.
Receipt ADR programme to enable US investors to purchase ADRs in US Dollars.
Each ADR represents If you are a UK taxpayer, please note that you are eligible one Burberry ordinary share.
for a tax-free Dividend Allowance of 5,000 in each tax year.
Any dividends received above this amount will be For queries relating to ADRs in Burberry, please use subject to taxation.
Dividends paid on shares held within the following contact details: pensions and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs will continue to be tax-free.
Further information can be found BNY Mellon Shareowner Services at www.
Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 Dividends payable in foreign currencies Equiniti is able to pay dividends to shareholder bank Tel: Toll free within the US: 1 888 269 2377 accounts in over 30 currencies worldwide through the Tel: International: 1 201 680 6825 Overseas Payment Service.
An administrative fee will be Email enquiries: shrrelations@.
com deducted from each dividend payment.
Further details can Website: www.
com be obtained from Equiniti or online at www.
Annual General Meeting Dividend Reinvestment Plan Burberrys Annual General Meeting will be held at the The Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP InterContinental Hotel, One Hamilton Place, Park Lane, enables shareholders to use their dividends to buy London W1J 7QY on Thursday, 13 July 2017. further Burberry shares.
Full details of the DRIP can be obtained from Equiniti.
If shareholders would like their The Notice of Meeting, together with details of the final 2017 dividend and future dividends to qualify for the business to be conducted at the meeting, is available DRIP, completed application forms must be returned to on the Companys website at www.
The voting results for the 2017 Annual General Duplicate accounts Meeting will be accessible on the Companys website Shareholders who have more than one account due at www.
com shortly after the meeting.
to inconsistency in account details may avoid duplicate mailings by contacting Equiniti and requesting the amalgamation of their share accounts.
190 Shareholder Information Electronic communication ShareGift Shareholders may at any time choose to receive all Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value shareholder documentation in electronic form via the of which makes them uneconomic to sell, may wish internet, rather than in paper format.
Shareholders to consider donating their shares to charity through who decide to register for this option will receive an ShareGift, a donation scheme operated by The Orr email each time a shareholder document is published Mackintosh Foundation.
A ShareGift donation form can on the internet.
Shareholders who wish to receive be obtained from Equiniti.
Further information is available documentation in electronic form should register at www.
org or by telephone on 02079 303737. online at www.
Share price information Equiniti offers a range of shareholder information and The latest Burberry Group plc share price is available services online at www.
A textphone on the Companys website at www.
facility for those with hearing difficulties is available by calling: 0371 384 2255.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Unauthorised brokers boiler room scams Monday to Friday.
Please call 44 121 415 7047 if calling Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited from outside the UK.
advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
These are typically from overseas-based Financial calendar brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them First Quarter Trading Update 12 July 2017 what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in Annual General Meeting 13 July 2017 US or UK investments.
These operations are commonly Interim Results announcement November 2017 known as boiler rooms.
Third Quarter Trading Update January 2018 Preliminary Results announcement May 2018 If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, get the correct name of the person and organisation and check Registered office that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting Burberry Group plc involved by visiting www.
Horseferry House Horseferry Road If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be London eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services SW1P 2AW Compensation Scheme if things go wrong.
Registered in England and Wales If you think you have been approached by an unauthorised Registered Number 03458224 firm you should contact the FCA consumer helpline on www.
Share buyback More detailed information can be found on the FCA From July 2016 to April 2017, the Company completed website at www.
uk consumers protect-yourself a buyback programme of 100m.
buyback of 300m will be completed in FY 2018, in addition to the 50m already announced.
Further details Website are provided in the Notice of this years Annual General This Annual Report and other information about Meeting, which is available on the Companys website Burberry Group plc, including share price information at www.
and details of results announcements, are available at www.
Share dealing Burberry Group plc shares can be traded through most banks, building societies or stock brokers.
Equiniti offers a telephone and internet dealing service.
Terms and conditions and details of the commission charges are available on request.
For telephone dealing please telephone 03456 037 037 between 8.00am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, and for internet dealing visit www.
Shareholders will need their reference number which can be found on their share certificate.
191 The cover and accounts section of this report pages 118-192 are printed on Colorplan.
This product is made from virgin ECF pulp, which is produced from sawmill residues, forest thinnings, and roundwood from managed sustainable forests.
The main section pages 1-117 are printed on Oxygen Offset which is made from 100% fide-inked pulp recycled fibre.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who are a Carbon Neutral Company.
Both the manufacturing mills and printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
Disclaimer The purpose of this document is to provide information to the members of Burberry Group plc.
This document contains certain statements that are .
They appear in a number of places throughout this document and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations andthose of our officers, directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation ofthis document and unless otherwise required by applicable law the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
The Company and its directors accept no liability to third parties in respect of this document save as would arise under English law.
This document does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for or otherwise acquire or dispose of any BurberryGroup plc shares, in the UK, or in the USA, or under the USA Securities Act 1933 or any other jurisdiction.
