Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period commencing 1 April 2016 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
As at 31 March 2017, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant to the Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the guidance in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
The new standard: 1. retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L: 2. introduces a forward-looking impairment model based on expected credit losses on financial instruments: and 3. updates hedge accounting requirements, to more closely align the accounting with the risk management activities.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The most significant impact of adopting this standard is expected to be as a result of the changes to the hedge accounting requirements, whereby cash flow hedges will need to be presented on the balance sheet as part of the carrying value of inventories rather than in equity.
The adoption of this element of IFRS 9 is an accounting policy choice but will become a requirement when IFRS 9 Macro Hedging is endorsed by the European Union.
The full impact of adopting this new standard is still being assessed and will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service.
IFRS 15 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Adopting this new standard may result in a delay in the timing of the recognition of a portion of the Groups revenue however it is not anticipated that this will have a material impact on the overall Group result.
There will also be additional disclosure requirements.
IFRS 16 Leases This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
It replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The most significant changes are in relation to lessee accounting.
Under the new standard, the concept of assessing a lease contract as either operating or financing is replaced by a single lessee accounting model.
Under this new model, substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and obtaining financing.
The lessee will be required to recognise a corresponding asset and liability.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of the lease and the interest on the financing liability will be charged over the same period.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental change to the Groups Balance Sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses and offices being recognised for the first time.
The Income Statement will also be impacted, with rent expense relating to operating leases being replaced by a depreciation charge arising from the right-to-use assets and interest charges arising from lease financing.
The full impact of these changes is currently being assessed as part of an on-going IFRS 16 implementation project and will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Refer to note 23 for details of the Groups future minimum lease commitments at 31 March 2017.
Basis of consolidation The Groups annual financial statements comprise those of Burberry Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries, presented as a single economic entity.
The results of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same reporting year as the Company, using consistent accounting policies across the Group.
130 130 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Burberry Group plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a global luxury goods manufacturer, retailer and wholesaler.
The Group Basis of consolidation continued also licences third parties to manufacture and distribute products using the Burberry trade marks.
All of the companies which Subsidiaries are all entities including special purpose entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity comprise the Group are controlled by Burberry Group plc the Company directly or indirectly.
when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the European Union endorsed to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
Where there is a International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC interpretations and parts of loss of control of a subsidiary, the consolidated financial statements include the results for the portion of the reporting period the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements have been during which the Group had control.
Intra-group transactions, balances and unrealised profits on transactions between Group prepared under the historical cost convention, except as modified by the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial companies are eliminated in preparing the Group financial statements.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
interests as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For acquisitions of additional interests in subsidiaries from noncontrolling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying value of Taking into account reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors consider it net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals of interests in subsidiaries to non-controlling appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017. interests are also recorded in equity.
There have been no new standards, amendments or interpretations issued and made effective for the financial period Key sources of estimation and judgement commencing 1 April 2016 that have had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires that management make certain judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities and the disclosure As at 31 March 2017, the following new and revised standards, amendments and interpretations, which may be relevant of contingent liabilities.
If in the future such estimates and assumptions, which are based on managements best judgements to the Groups results, were issued but not yet effective: at the date of the financial statements, deviate from actual circumstances, the original estimate and assumptions will be updated as appropriate in the period in which the circumstances change.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments This standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
IFRS 9 replaces the guidance Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The key areas where the estimates The new standard: and assumptions applied have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities, 1. retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: and where judgements applied have a material impact on the presentation of the Group financial statements, are discussed amortised cost: fair value through OCI: and fair value through P&L: below.
Further details of the Groups accounting policies in relation to these areas are provided in note 2: 2. introduces a forward-looking impairment model based on expected credit losses on financial instruments: and 3. updates hedge accounting requirements, to more closely align the accounting with the risk management activities.
Impairment of property, plant and equipment and onerous lease provisions The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
The most significant impact of adopting this standard Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying is expected to be as a result of the changes to the hedge accounting requirements, whereby cash flow hedges will need to be presented on the balance sheet as part of the carrying value of inventories rather than in equity.
The adoption of this element of IFRS 9 is an accounting policy amount may not be recoverable.
When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash choice but will become a requirement when IFRS 9 Macro Hedging is endorsed by the European Union.
The full impact of adopting this new generating unit is determined based on value-in-use calculations prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and standard is still being assessed and will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is negative, the need for an onerous lease IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers provision in relation to the committed future minimum lease payments is considered.
Refer to note 13 for further details of This standard deals with revenue recognition and replaces both IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction contracts, providing a single revenue property, plant and equipment and impairment reviews carried out in the period.
Refer to note 20 for further details of onerous standard to be applied across all industries.
Under the new standard, revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or lease provisions.
Adopting Impairment of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset this new standard may result in a delay in the timing of the recognition of a portion of the Groups revenue however it is not anticipated that The fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate this will have a material impact on the overall Group result.
that the carrying amount may not be fully recoverable.
Where a review for impairment is carried out, the recoverable amount of IFRS 16 Leases the intangible asset is determined from a value-in-use calculation of the anticipated incremental income earned by the Group as This standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both lessees and lessors.
a result of selling Beauty products through retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence.
The value-in-use calculation It replaces IAS 17 Leases and IFRIC 4 Determining whether an arrangement contains a lease.
The most significant changes are in relation is prepared on the basis of managements assumptions and estimates of the future trading performance of the Beauty product to lessee accounting.
Under this new model, substantially all lease contracts will result in a lessee acquiring a right-to-use asset and division.
Refer to note 12 for further details of the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning Inventory provisioning on or after 1 January 2019, however it is not currently endorsed by the European Union.
Adopting this new standard will result in a fundamental The Group manufactures and sells luxury goods and is subject to changing consumer demands and fashion trends.
change to the Groups Balance Sheet, with right-to-use assets and accompanying financing liabilities for the Groups retail stores, warehouses As a result it is necessary to consider the recoverability of the cost of inventories and the associated provisioning required.
and offices being recognised for the first time.
The Income Statement will also be impacted, with rent expense relating to operating leases being When calculating inventory provisions, management considers the nature and condition of the inventory, as well as replaced by a depreciation charge arising from the right-to-use assets and interest charges arising from lease financing.
The full impact of these applying assumptions around anticipated saleability of finished goods and future usage of raw materials.
Refer to note changes is currently being assessed as part of an on-going IFRS 16 implementation project and will be quantified closer to the date of adoption.
16 for further details of the carrying value of inventory.
130 131 131 Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued Income and deferred taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Given the complexities of transfer pricing and other tax legislation, judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
These are measured using either the Groups single best estimate of a likely outcome or a weighted average approach where appropriate.
Where the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
The Group does not currently anticipate a significant risk of material change to the outcomes referred to above over the next financial year.
Refer to notes 9, 14 and 30 for further details of income and deferred tax charges and balances and contingent liabilities.
Deferred consideration on the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC On 22 April 2016, the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration for fixed and contingent payments to be made to the minority shareholder.
Management has applied judgement in assessing the nature of the payments associated with this transaction in order to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
Refer to note 29 for further details of this transaction.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies of the Group are: a Revenue Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
Retail sales, returns and allowances are reflected at the dates of transactions with customers.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected returns and allowances.
Provisions for returns on retail and wholesale sales are calculated based on historical return levels.
Royalties receivable from licensees are accrued as earned on the basis of the terms of the relevant royalty agreement, which is typically on the basis of production volumes.
b Segment reporting As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance, has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold through retail and wholesale channels worldwide.
Resource allocation and performance is assessed across the whole of the retail wholesale channel globally.
Hence the retail wholesale channel has been determined to be an operating segment.
Licensed products are manufactured and sold by third-party licensees.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
The Group presents an analysis of its revenue by channel, by product division and by geographical destination.
132 132 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies continued Key sources of estimation and judgement continued c Business combinations Income and deferred taxes The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the Group.
The cost of an The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions.
Given the complexities of transfer pricing and other tax acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed legislation, judgement is required in determining the provision for income taxes in each territory.
There are many transactions at the date of exchange.
Contingent payments are remeasured at fair value through the Income Statement.
All transaction and calculations during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group costs are expensed to the Income Statement.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed recognises liabilities for anticipated tax issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
These are measured in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any using either the Groups single best estimate of a likely outcome or a weighted average approach where appropriate.
Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries are identified separately from the Groups equity, and are the final outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact initially measured either at fair value or at a value equal to the non-controlling interests share of the identifiable net assets the income tax and deferred tax provisions and assets in the period in which such determination is made.
The choice of the basis of measurement is an accounting policy choice for each individual business combination.
not currently anticipate a significant risk of material change to the outcomes referred to above over the next financial year.
The excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest over the fair value of the Refer to notes 9, 14 and 30 for further details of income and deferred tax charges and balances and contingent liabilities.
identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Deferred consideration on the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC On 22 April 2016, the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in d Share schemes Burberry Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration for fixed and contingent payments to be made to the minority The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes, under which services are received shareholder.
Management has applied judgement in assessing the nature of the payments associated with this transaction from employees including executive directors as consideration for equity instruments of the Company.
The cost of the in order to determine the appropriate accounting treatment.
share-based incentives is measured with reference to the fair value of the equity instruments awarded at the date of grant.
Appropriate option pricing models, including Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo, are used to determine the fair value 2.
Accounting policies of the awards made.
The fair value takes into account the impact of any market performance conditions, but the impact of The principal accounting policies of the Group are: non-market performance conditions is not considered in determining the fair value on the date of grant.
Vesting conditions which relate to non-market conditions are allowed for in the assumptions used for the number of options expected to a Revenue vest.
The estimate of the number of options expected to vest is revised at each balance sheet date.
Revenue, which is stated excluding Value Added Tax and other sales related taxes, is the amount receivable for goods supplied less returns, trade discounts and allowances and royalties receivable.
In some circumstances, employees may provide services in advance of the grant date.
The grant date fair value is estimated for the purposes of recognising the expense during the period between the service commencement period and the grant date.
Wholesale sales are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, with provisions made for expected The cost of the share-based incentives is recognised as an expense over the vesting period of the awards, with a corresponding returns and allowances.
When options are exercised, they are settled either via issue of new shares in the Company, or through shares held in an Employee Share Option Plan ESOP trust, depending on the terms and conditions of the relevant scheme.
The proceeds b Segment reporting received from the exercises, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to share capital and share As required by IFRS 8 Operating segments, the segmental information presented in the financial statements is reported in premium accounts.
a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Chief Operating Decision Maker.
e Leases The Group is both a lessor and lessee of property, plant and equipment.
Determining whether an arrangement is or contains The Group has centralised activities for designing, making and sourcing, which ensure a global product offering is sold a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement.
Leases in which substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental through retail and wholesale channels worldwide.
Resource allocation and performance is assessed across the whole of to ownership of an asset are transferred to the lessee by the lessor are classified as finance leases.
Leases which are not the retail wholesale channel globally.
finance leases are classified as operating leases.
As a result, this channel is assessed discretely Gross rental expenditure income in respect of operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the by the Chief Operating Decision Maker and has been determined to be an operating segment.
Certain rental expenses are determined on the basis of revenue achieved in specific retail locations and are accrued for on that basis.
Amounts paid to received from the landlord to acquire or transfer the rights to a lease are treated as prepayments deferred income.
Lease incentives, typically rent-free periods and capital contributions, are held on the Balance Sheet in deferred income and non-financial accruals and recognised over the term of the lease.
f Dividend distributions Dividend distributions to Burberry Group plcs shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividend becomes a committed obligation.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by the shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when paid.
132 133 133 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
h Intangible assets Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill on acquisition is recorded as an intangible asset.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are also made to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets, such as key money, is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits are expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement and the nature of the asset.
Computer software The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
Software costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which may be up to seven years.
i Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, based on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Short life leasehold improvements Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction becomes unconditional.
134 134 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued g Pension costs j Impairment of non-financial assets Eligible employees participate in defined contribution pension schemes, the principal one being in the UK with its assets held Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that in an independently administered fund.
The cost of providing these benefits to participating employees is recognised in the are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate Income Statement as they fall due and comprises the amount of contributions to the schemes.
that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value-inh Intangible assets use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately Goodwill identifiable cash flows cash generating units.
Non-financial assets, other than goodwill, for which an impairment has Goodwill is the excess of the cost of acquisition together with the value of any non-controlling interest, over the fair value been previously recognised are reviewed for possible reversal of impairment at each reporting date.
of identifiable net assets acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition k Investment properties at that date.
Investment properties are freehold properties held to earn rentals and or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect any impairment in value.
Cost includes the original Goodwill is assigned an indefinite useful life.
Impairment reviews are performed annually, or more frequently if events purchase price plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Investment properties are depreciated on a straight-line or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
Impairment losses recognised on basis over an estimated useful life of up to 50 years.
goodwill are not reversed in future periods.
l Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale Trade marks, licences and other intangible assets A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate major line of business or The cost of securing and renewing trade marks and licences, and the cost of acquiring other intangible assets, such as geographical area of operations that has been disposed of, has been abandoned or meets the criteria to be classified as key money, is capitalised at purchase price and amortised by equal annual instalments over the period in which benefits held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented on the Income Statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
are expected to accrue, typically ten years for trade marks, or the term of the lease or licence.
The useful life of trade marks and other intangible assets is determined on a case-by-case basis, in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreement Non-current assets are classified as held for sale when their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sale and the nature of the asset.
transaction rather than through continued use, and a sale within the next 12 months is considered to be highly probable.
Assets classified as held for sale cease to be depreciated and they are stated at the lower of carrying amount and fair value Computer software less cost to sell.
The cost of acquiring computer software including licences and separately identifiable development costs is capitalised as an intangible asset at purchase price, plus any directly attributable cost of preparing that asset for its intended use.
m Inventories Software costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which may be up to seven years.
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost consists of all costs of purchase, costs of conversion, design costs and other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
For inventories relating i Property, plant and equipment to the Beauty product division, including raw materials and finished goods, cost is measured using a weighted average method.
Property, plant and equipment, with the exception of assets in the course of construction, is stated at cost or deemed cost, For all other product divisions, the cost of inventories is determined using a first-in, first-out FIFO method, taking account of based on historical revalued amounts prior to the adoption of IFRS, less accumulated depreciation and provision to reflect the fashion seasons for which the inventory was offered.
Where necessary, provision is made to reduce cost to no more than any impairment in value.
Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and net realisable value having regard to the nature and condition of inventory, as well as its anticipated utilisation and saleability.
transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be ready for use have occurred.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working n Taxation condition for its intended use.
Tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax charge.
Depreciation The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost or deemed cost, less residual value, of the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years and it assets in equal annual instalments over their estimated useful lives at the following rates: further excludes items which are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Type of asset Category of property, plant and equipment Useful life Land Freehold land and buildings Not depreciated Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liabilities method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases Freehold buildings Freehold land and buildings Up to 50 years of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the temporary Leaseholds Leasehold improvements Over the unexpired term of the lease difference arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at Plant and machinery Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss, no deferred tax will be recognised.
Deferred Short life leasehold improvements Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 10 years tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and Retail fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Office fixtures and fittings Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 5 years Computer equipment Fixtures, fittings and equipment Up to 7 years Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which Assets in the course of construction Assets in the course of construction Not depreciated the temporary differences can be utilised.
Profit loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except where the timing of the Profits and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets represent the difference between reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not the net proceeds and net book value at the date of sale.
Disposals are accounted for when the relevant transaction reverse in the foreseeable future.
134 135 135 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
o Provisions Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks specific to the future obligation.
Property obligations A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of the lease in excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan has been approved and communicated.
Examples of  costs include employee termination payments, contract termination penalties and onerous contract payments.
p Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity attributable to owners of the Company.
q Financial instruments A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method except for derivatives which are held at fair value and which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost mostly approximate their carrying amount due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Where the fair value of any financial asset or liability held at amortised cost is materially different to the book value, the fair value is disclosed.
136 136 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued n Taxation continued q Financial instruments continued Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets The Group classifies its instruments in the following categories: against current tax liabilities and when deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same Fair value taxation authority on either the same taxable entities or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the measurement balances on a net basis.
2 Financial instrument category Note Classification Measurement hierarchy Cash and cash equivalents 18 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A o Provisions Trade and other receivables 15 Loans and receivables Amortised cost N A Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, for which it is Trade and other payables 19 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and where the amount of the obligation Borrowings 21 Other financial liabilities Amortised cost N A can be reliably estimated.
When the effect of the time value of money is material, provision amounts are calculated based on Deferred consideration 19 Other financial liabilities Fair value through profit and loss 2 3 1 the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation.
The present value is calculated using Forward foreign exchange contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 Equity swap contracts 17 Derivative instrument Fair value through profit and loss 2 forward market interest rates as measured at the balance sheet reporting date, which have been adjusted for risks specific to the future obligation.
1 Cash flow hedge and net investment hedge accounting is applied to the extent it is achievable.
2 The fair value measurement hierarchy is only applicable for financial instruments measured at fair value.
Property obligations A provision for the present value of future property reinstatement costs is recognised where there is an obligation to return The measurements for financial instruments carried at fair value are categorised into different levels in the fair value the leased property to its original condition at the end of an operating lease.
Where a leased property is no longer expected hierarchy based on the inputs to the valuation technique used.
The different levels are defined as follows: to be fully occupied or where the costs exceed the future expected benefits, an onerous lease provision will be recognised for that portion of the lease in excess to the Groups requirements and not fully recovered through sub-leasing, or through Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the value-in-use.
Restructuring costs Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly Provisions for costs associated with restructuring programmes are recognised when a detailed formal restructuring plan or indirectly.
has been approved and communicated.
Level 3: includes unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
p Share capital Observable inputs are those which are developed using market data, such as publicly available information about actual Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are events or transactions.
The Group has an established framework with respect to measurement of fair values, including shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
The Group regularly reviews any significant inputs which are not derived from observable market data and considers, where available, relevant third-party information, to support the conclusion that such valuations meet the Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including requirements of IFRS.
The classification level in the fair value hierarchy is also considered periodically.
Significant valuation any directly attributable incremental costs, is deducted from equity attributable to owners of the Company until the shares issues are reported to the Audit Committee.
are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included in equity The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual attributable to owners of the Company.
and market rates and, in the case of forward foreign exchange contracts, after discounting using the appropriate yield curve as at the balance sheet date.
All Level 2 fair value measurements are calculated using inputs which are based on q Financial instruments observable market data.
A financial instrument is initially recognised at fair value on the Balance Sheet when the entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
A financial asset is derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flow The fair value of the fixed payment component of deferred consideration is considered to be a Level 2 measurement and expire or substantially all risks and rewards of the asset are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when the is derived using a present value calculation of the remaining fixed payments, discounted using an appropriate risk-free rate.
obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.
The fair value of the contingent payment component of deferred consideration is considered to be a Level 3 measurement and is derived using a present value calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
This valuation Subsequent to initial recognition, all financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method technique has been adopted as it most closely mirrors the contractual arrangement.
except for derivatives which are held at fair value and which are classified as held for trading, except where they qualify for hedge accounting.
The fair value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities held at amortised cost mostly approximate The Groups primary categories of financial instruments are listed below: their carrying amount due to the short maturity of these instruments.
Cash and cash equivalents On the Balance Sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less, held with banks and liquidity funds.
In the Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents also include bank overdrafts, which are recorded under current liabilities on the Balance Sheet.
136 137 137 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings including overdrafts Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, inclusive of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date.
Deferred consideration Deferred consideration is initially recognised at the present value of the expected future payments.
It is subsequently remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value relating to changes in expected future payments recorded in the Income Statement as an operating expense or income.
Changes in fair value relating to unwinding of discounting to present value are recorded as a financing expense.
Derivative instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate forward foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
When hedge accounting is applied, the Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : 3 hedges of net investment of the assets of overseas subsidiaries net investment hedges : or 4 classified as held for trading.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
138 138 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued q Financial instruments continued q Financial instruments continued Trade and other receivables Derivative instruments continued Trade and other receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is sheet date.
Receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective deferred in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of the gain or loss is recognised interest rate method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there immediately in the Income Statement.
Amounts deferred in other comprehensive income are recycled through the Income is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of receivables.
Statement in the periods when the hedged item affects the Income Statement.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, The amount of the movement in the provision is recognised in the Income Statement.
or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at the time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the Income Statement.
When Trade and other payables a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately Trade and other payables are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the balance sheet date.
transferred to the Income Statement within net exchange gain loss on derivatives held for trading.
If a derivative instrument Payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
is not designated as a hedge, the subsequent change to the fair value is recognised in the Income Statement within operating expenses or interest depending upon the nature of the instrument.
Borrowings are subsequently stated Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through derivative instruments or foreign currency borrowings, at amortised cost and the difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised the gains or losses on the effective portion of the change in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as a hedge in the Income Statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified of a net investment, or the gains or losses on the retranslation of the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months income and are reclassified to the Income Statement when the foreign operation that is hedged is disposed of.
after the balance sheet date.
r Foreign currency translation Deferred consideration Functional and presentation currency Deferred consideration is initially recognised at the present value of the expected future payments.
It is subsequently Items included in the financial statements of each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary remeasured at fair value at each reporting period with the change in fair value relating to changes in expected future payments economic environment in which the entity operates the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are recorded in the Income Statement as an operating expense or income.
Changes in fair value relating to unwinding of presented in Sterling which is the Companys functional and the Groups presentation currency.
discounting to present value are recorded as a financing expense.
Transactions in foreign currencies Derivative instruments Transactions denominated in foreign currencies within each entity in the Group are translated into the functional currency The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates arising on certain at the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign trading transactions.
The principal derivative instruments used are forward foreign exchange contracts taken out to hedge highly currencies, which are held at the year end, are translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the probable cash flows in relation to future sales, royalty receivables and product purchases.
The Group also may designate forward balance sheet date closing rate.
Exchange differences on monetary items are recognised in the Income Statement in the foreign exchange contracts or foreign currency borrowings as a net investment hedge of the assets of overseas subsidiaries.
period in which they arise, except where these exchange differences form part of a net investment in overseas subsidiaries of the Group, in which case such differences are taken directly to the foreign currency translation reserve.
Translation of the results of overseas businesses The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments The results of overseas subsidiaries are translated into the Groups presentation currency of Sterling each month at the that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
weighted average exchange rate for the month according to the phasing of the Groups trading results.
The weighted average exchange rate is used, as it is considered to approximate the actual exchange rates on the date of the transactions.
The assets Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the trade date and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at the closing rates.
Differences arising on the retranslation of the opening of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, net investment in subsidiary companies, and on the translation of their results, are taken directly to the foreign currency the nature of the item being hedged.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: 1 hedges of the fair value of recognised translation reserve.
assets and liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : 2 hedges of highly probable forecast transactions cash flow hedges : 3 hedges of net investment of the assets of overseas subsidiaries net investment hedges : or 4 classified as held Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the for trading.
foreign operation and translated at the closing rate.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the Income The principal exchange rates used were as follows: Statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Average rate Closing rate Year to Year to As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Euro 1.19 1.36 1.17 1.26 US Dollar 1.30 1.50 1.25 1.44 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 8.73 9.57 8.62 9.29 Hong Kong Dollar 10.11 11.67 9.74 11.16 Korean Won 1,487 1,740 1,402 1,640 The average exchange rate achieved by the Group on its Yen royalty income, taking into account its use of Yen forward foreign exchange contracts executed on a monthly basis approximately 12 months in advance of royalty receipts, was Yen 159.3: 1 in the year to 31 March 2017 2016: Yen 177.1: 1.
138 139 139 Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Accounting policies continued s Adjusted profit before taxation In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups results include a presentation of Adjusted profit before taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this will include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature as well as income or expenses relating to acquisitions or disposals of businesses or other transactions of a similar nature, including the impact of changes in fair value of expected future payments or receipts relating to these transactions.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis each year and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and their related tax impacts are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted earnings per share.
Refer to note 6 for further details of adjusting items.
Segmental analysis The Chief Operating Decision Maker has been identified as the Board of Directors.
The Board reviews the Groups internal reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based on the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being retail wholesale and licensing.
Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from global licensees of eyewear, timepieces and European childrenswear, and from licences relating to the use of non-Burberry trade marks in Japan.
The Board assesses channel performance based on a measure of adjusted operating profit.
This measurement basis excludes the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board.
Retail Wholesale Licensing Total Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m m m Retail 2,127.2 1,837.7 2,127.2 1,837.7 Wholesale 613.9 634.6 613.9 634.6 Licensing 27.1 44.7 27.1 44.7 Total segment revenue 2,741.1 2,472.3 27.1 44.7 2,768.2 2,517.0 1 Inter-segment revenue 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.3 Revenue from external customers 2,741.1 2,472.3 24.9 42.4 2,766.0 2,514.7 2 Depreciation and amortisation 144.0 132.2 144.0 132.2 3 Net impairment of intangible assets 7.1 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment 15.9 26.5 15.9 26.5 Other non-cash items: Share-based payments 13.1 0.3 13.1 0.3 Adjusted operating profit 437.0 380.9 21.7 36.9 458.7 417.8 4 Adjusting items 67.6 5.0 Finance income 5.5 5.1 Finance expense 1.8 2.3 Profit before taxation 394.8 415.6 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
2 Amortisation of 7.5m 2016: 14.9m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset is presented as an adjusting item and excluded from the segmental analysis.
3 Impairment of 18.6m 2016: nil relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset and impairment of 7.3m 2016: nil of software assets specifically relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations are presented as adjusting items and excluded from the segmental analysis.
4 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
140 140 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 2.
Segmental analysis continued s Adjusted profit before taxation Segmental asset analysis Retail Wholesale Licensing Total In order to provide additional consideration of the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing business, the Groups Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to Year to results include a presentation of Adjusted profit before taxation adjusted PBT.
Adjusted PBT is defined as profit before 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March taxation and before adjusting items.
Adjusting items are those items which, in the opinion of the directors, should be excluded 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 in order to provide a consistent and comparable view of the performance of the Groups ongoing business.
Generally this will m m m m m m Additions to non-current assets 112.1 146.2 112.1 146.2 include those items that are largely one-off and material in nature as well as income or expenses relating to acquisitions or disposals of businesses or other transactions of a similar nature, including the impact of changes in fair value of expected Total segment assets 1,332.5 1,365.5 3.6 3.5 1,336.1 1,369.0 future payments or receipts relating to these transactions.
Adjusting items are identified and presented on a consistent basis Goodwill 99.6 88.8 each year and a reconciliation of adjusted PBT to profit before tax is included in the financial statements.
Adjusting items and Cash and cash equivalents 843.5 711.8 their related tax impacts are added back to deducted from profit attributable to owners of the Company to arrive at adjusted Taxation 134.2 137.4 earnings per share.
Assets relating to discontinued Spanish operations 7.3 Total assets per Balance Sheet 2,413.4 2,314.3 3.
The Board reviews the Groups internal Additional revenue analysis reporting in order to assess performance and allocate resources.
Management has determined the operating segments based Year to Year to on the reports used by the Board.
The Board considers the Groups business through its two channels to market, being 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 retail wholesale and licensing.
Revenue by product division m m Accessories 1,033.2 901.7 Retail wholesale revenues are generated by the sale of luxury goods through Burberry mainline stores, concessions, outlets Womens 791.9 729.0 and digital commerce as well as Burberry franchisees, prestige department stores globally and multi-brand specialty accounts.
Mens 623.5 548.4 The flow of global product between retail and wholesale channels and across our regions is monitored and optimised at a Childrens Other 108.1 90.7 corporate level and implemented via the Groups inventory hubs situated in Asia, Europe and the USA.
Beauty 184.4 202.5 Retail Wholesale 2,741.1 2,472.3 Licensing 24.9 42.4 Licensing revenues are generated through the receipt of royalties from global licensees of eyewear, timepieces and Total 2,766.0 2,514.7 European childrenswear, and from licences relating to the use of non-Burberry trade marks in Japan.
This measurement basis excludes Year to Year to 31 March 31 March the effects of adjusting items.
The measure of earnings for each operating segment that is reviewed by the Board includes 2017 2016 an allocation of corporate and central costs.
Interest income and charges are not included in the result for each operating Revenue by destination m m segment that is reviewed by the Board.
1 Inter-segment revenue 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.3 Revenue from external customers 2,741.1 2,472.3 24.9 42.4 2,766.0 2,514.7 Revenue derived from external customers in foreign countries totalled 2,465.1m for the year to 31 March 2017 2016: 2,264.5m.
2 This amount includes 576.6m of external revenues derived from customers in the USA 2016: 562.1m and 413.7m of Depreciation and amortisation 144.0 132.2 144.0 132.2 3 external revenues derived from customers in China 2016: 350.9m.
Net impairment of intangible assets 7.1 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment 15.9 26.5 15.9 26.5 Other non-cash items: The total of non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets located in the UK is 147.6m Share-based payments 13.1 0.3 13.1 0.3 2016: 194.6m.
The remaining 456.2m of non-current assets are located in other countries 2016: 452.6m, with 159.6m located in the USA 2016: 153.1m, 76.7m located in China 2016: 82.0m, and 72.4m located in Korea Adjusted operating profit 437.0 380.9 21.7 36.9 458.7 417.8 2016: 58.9m.
4 Adjusting items 67.6 5.0 Finance income 5.5 5.1 Finance expense 1.8 2.3 Profit before taxation 394.8 415.6 1 Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to unrelated third parties.
140 141 141 Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Net operating expenses Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2016 2017 Note m m Selling and distribution costs 913.5 816.7 Administrative expenses 560.9 528.2 Adjusting operating items 6 64.4 14.9 Net operating expenses 1,538.8 1,359.8 5.
Profit before taxation Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Within cost of sales 1.6 1.4 Within selling and distribution costs 107.4 98.7 Within administrative expenses 12.3 11.8 Amortisation of intangible assets Within selling and distribution costs 1.0 1.8 1 Within administrative expenses 21.7 18.5 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3.5 1.2 2 Net impairment of intangible assets 12 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 15.9 26.5 3,4 Employee costs 26 484.7 427.5 Operating lease rentals 5 Minimum lease payments 239.0 235.3 Contingent rents 108.6 86.1 Net exchange gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 12.2 1.6 Net exchange loss on derivatives held for trading for the year 0.2 5.8 Trade receivables net impairment charge 2.4 3.1 Adjusting items Adjusting operating items Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 26.1 14.9 Restructuring costs 6 20.8 Revaluation of deferred consideration liability 6 3.0 Costs relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations 6 14.5 Total adjusting operating items 64.4 14.9 Adjusting financing items Put option liability finance charge income 6 1.0 9.9 Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 6 2.2 Total adjusting financing items 3.2 9.9 1 Amortisation of intangible assets within administrative expenses has been presented excluding amortisation of 7.5m 2016: 14.9m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible, which has been presented as adjusting refer to note 6.
2 Net impairment of intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2017 is presented excluding an impairment of 18.6m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible and an impairment of 7.3m of software assets specifically relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations, which have been presented as adjusting refer to note 6.
3 Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2017 are presented excluding 9.7m of costs arising as a result of the cost-efficiency programme, which are presented as adjusting refer to note 6.
4 Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-presented to include employee-related costs recognised within cost of sales.
5 Minimum lease payments include charges for onerous lease provisions during the year ended 31 March 2017 of 7.9m 2016: 20.1m and does not include payments of 8.3m 2016: 5.0m where existing onerous lease provisions have been utilised.
142 142 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 4.
Adjusting items Year to Year to Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 31 March 31 March During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the present 2016 2017 value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through retail and Note m m wholesale channels rather than under licence, following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Interparfums SA.
Selling and distribution costs 913.5 816.7 This asset was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
Administrative expenses 560.9 528.2 Adjusting operating items 6 64.4 14.9 During the six months ended 30 September 2016, amortisation expense of 7.5m was recognised in relation to the fragrance Net operating expenses 1,538.8 1,359.8 and beauty licence intangible.
At 30 September 2016, management carried out an impairment assessment of the carrying value of this asset based on a value-in-use calculation using latest estimates for cost and revenue projections.
Profit before taxation in projected revenue over the remaining life to 31 December 2017, compared to previous estimates, management concluded Year to Year to that the book value of the asset was not supported by its value-in-use.
An impairment charge of 18.6m was recognised 31 March 31 March at 30 September 2016, to write the remaining balance of the intangible asset down to nil.
2017 2016 Note m m Adjusted profit before taxation is stated after charging crediting : The total charge in relation to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible for the year ended 31 March 2017 is 26.1m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2016: 14.9m.
This has been presented as an adjusting item, which is consistent with the treatment of the cost recognised Within cost of sales 1.6 1.4 on termination of the licence relationship in the year ended 31 March 2013.
A related tax credit of 5.1m 2016: 2.8m has Within selling and distribution costs 107.4 98.7 also been recognised in the current period.
Within administrative expenses 12.3 11.8 Amortisation of intangible assets Restructuring costs Within selling and distribution costs 1.0 1.8 1 Restructuring costs of 20.8m were incurred in the current period, arising as a result of the Groups cost-efficiency programme Within administrative expenses 21.7 18.5 announced in May 2016.
These costs are presented as an adjusting item as they are considered material and one-off in nature, Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 3.5 1.2 2 being part of a restructuring programme running from May 2016 to March 2019, with restructuring costs being incurred in Net impairment of intangible assets 12 7.1 Net impairment of property, plant and equipment 13 15.9 26.5 the first two years.
The most significant elements of the restructuring costs relate to redundancies and consultancy costs 3,4 Employee costs 26 484.7 427.5 supporting organisational design and development of strategic growth and productivity initiatives, with the remainder Operating lease rentals relating to legal advice and project assurance.
16.7m of this cost was settled in the period with the balance being accrued 5 Minimum lease payments 239.0 235.3 at 31 March 2017.
A related tax credit of 4.2m has also been recognised in the current period.
Contingent rents 108.6 86.1 Net exchange gain on revaluation of monetary assets and liabilities 12.2 1.6 Items relating to the deferred consideration liability Net exchange loss on derivatives held for trading for the year 0.2 5.8 On 22 April 2016, the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Trade receivables net impairment charge 2.4 3.1 Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration of contingent payments to be made to the minority shareholder relating to an agreed percentage of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Adjusting items Textiles and Accessories Company WLL and Burberry Qatar WLL, over the period 2016 to 2023, together with fixed payments Adjusting operating items Charge relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 6 26.1 14.9 of AED 120.0m 22.6m, relating to profits of Burberry Middle East LLC up to 31 March 2016, to be paid over the period 2016 to Restructuring costs 6 20.8 2019.
A liability for the present value of the fixed and contingent deferred consideration of AED 236.0m 44.6m was recognised Revaluation of deferred consideration liability 6 3.0 at this point.
Refer to note 19 for further details of the deferred consideration liability.
Costs relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations 6 14.5 Total adjusting operating items 64.4 14.9 A charge of 3.0m in relation to the revaluation of this balance has been recognised in operating expenses for the year ended Adjusting financing items 31 March 2017.
A financing charge of 2.2m in relation to the unwinding of the discount on the non-current portion of the Put option liability finance charge income 6 1.0 9.9 deferred consideration liability has also been recognised for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 6 2.2 No tax has been recognised on either of these items, as the future payments are not considered to be deductible for tax Total adjusting financing items 3.2 9.9 purposes.
These items are presented as adjusting items in accordance with the Group accounting policy, as they arise 1 Amortisation of intangible assets within administrative expenses has been presented excluding amortisation of 7.5m 2016: 14.9m relating to the fragrance and from changes in the value of the liability for expected future payments relating to the purchase of a non-controlling interest beauty licence intangible, which has been presented as adjusting refer to note 6. in the Group.
2 Net impairment of intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2017 is presented excluding an impairment of 18.6m relating to the fragrance and beauty licence intangible and an impairment of 7.3m of software assets specifically relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations, which have been presented as adjusting Put option liability finance charge income refer to note 6.
3 Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2017 are presented excluding 9.7m of costs arising as a result of the cost-efficiency programme, which are presented The financing charge of 1.0m for the year ended 31 March 2017 2016: income of 9.9m relates to fair value movements as adjusting refer to note 6. including the unwinding of the discount on the put option liability over the non-controlling interest in Burberry Shanghai 4 Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-presented to include employee-related costs recognised within cost of sales.
Trading Co. Ltd. No tax has been recognised on this item, as the value of the option on exercise is not considered to be 5 Minimum lease payments include charges for onerous lease provisions during the year ended 31 March 2017 of 7.9m 2016: 20.1m and does not include payments deductible for tax purposes.
This item has been presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Group accounting of 8.3m 2016: 5.0m where existing onerous lease provisions have been utilised.
policy as it arises from changes in the value of the liability for expected future payments relating to the purchase of a non-controlling interest in the Group.
Refer to note 19 for further details of the carrying value of the put option liability.
142 143 143 Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Adjusting items continued Costs relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations On 3 April 2017 Burberry entered into an agreement with Coty Geneva SARL Versoix Coty to grant Coty a licence for its fragrance and beauty products and to transfer Burberrys Beauty operations to Coty.
This agreement is expected to complete in October 2017.
The licence agreement and the business transfer will be accounted for in the financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Further details of the agreement to transfer the beauty operations business are set out in note 31.
Costs of 14.5m arising in relation to the transaction have been incurred and recognised in the current period.
These costs related to the write-off of software assets specifically relating to the Beauty operations of 7.3m refer to note 12 : a provision for the termination of a distributor agreement: and other ancillary charges incurred.
None of these costs were paid in the period.
These costs are presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Group accounting policy as they arose in relation to the transfer of a business.
A related tax credit of 2.9m has also been recognised in the period.
Auditor remuneration Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.8 1.8 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Services relating to taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2 Other non-audit-related services 0.2 0.1 Total 2.7 2.6 8. Financing Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Bank interest income 5.0 4.6 Other finance income 0.5 0.5 Finance income 5.5 5.1 Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.0 1.5 Bank charges 0.7 0.7 Other finance expense 0.1 0.1 Finance expense 1.8 2.3 Put option liability finance charge income 6 1.0 9.9 Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 6 2.2 Other financing charge income 3.2 9.9 Net finance income 0.5 12.7 144 144 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 6.
Taxation Costs relating to the transfer of the Beauty operations Analysis of charge for the year recognised in the Group Income Statement: On 3 April 2017 Burberry entered into an agreement with Coty Geneva SARL Versoix Coty to grant Coty a licence for its Year to Year to fragrance and beauty products and to transfer Burberrys Beauty operations to Coty.
This agreement is expected to complete 31 March 31 March in October 2017.
The licence agreement and the business transfer will be accounted for in the financial statements for the year 2017 2016 ending 31 March 2018.
Further details of the agreement to transfer the beauty operations business are set out in note 31. m m Current tax UK corporation tax Costs of 14.5m arising in relation to the transaction have been incurred and recognised in the current period.
These costs Current tax on income for the year to 31 March 2017 at 20% 2016: 20% 48.2 52.8 related to the write-off of software assets specifically relating to the Beauty operations of 7.3m refer to note 12 : a provision Double taxation relief 0.8 0.8 for the termination of a distributor agreement: and other ancillary charges incurred.
Adjustments in respect of prior years 3.3 3.1 These costs are presented as an adjusting item in accordance with the Group accounting policy as they arose in relation to 44.1 48.9 the transfer of a business.
Foreign tax Current tax on income for the year 45.3 49.1 7.
Auditor remuneration Adjustments in respect of prior years 6.3 2.0 Fees incurred during the year in relation to audit and non-audit services are analysed below.
Total current tax 83.1 96.0 Year to Year to Deferred tax 31 March 31 March UK deferred tax 2017 2016 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.2 9.9 m m Impact of changes to tax rates 0.8 1.3 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of the Company and consolidation 0.4 0.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.4 0.7 Audit services in respect of the financial statements of subsidiary companies 1.8 1.8 0.2 10.5 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Foreign deferred tax Services relating to taxation advisory services 0.2 0.2 Origination and reversal of temporary differences 19.7 13.1 Other non-audit-related services 0.2 0.1 Impact of changes to tax rates 0.2 Total 2.7 2.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.3 7.6 Total deferred tax 24.0 5.0 8. Financing Total tax charge on profit 107.1 101.0 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Analysis of charge for the year recognised in other comprehensive income and directly in equity: Note m m Bank interest income 5.0 4.6 Year to Year to Other finance income 0.5 0.5 31 March 31 March Finance income 5.5 5.1 2017 2016 m m Interest expense on bank loans and overdrafts 1.0 1.5 Current tax Bank charges 0.7 0.7 Recognised in other comprehensive income Other finance expense 0.1 0.1 Current tax charge on exchange differences on loans foreign currency translation reserve 5.4 1.9 Finance expense 1.8 2.3 Current tax charge on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 1.9 Put option liability finance charge income 6 1.0 9.9 Current tax credit on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.6 Finance charge on deferred consideration liability 6 2.2 Total current tax recognised in other comprehensive income 6.7 1.9 Other financing charge income 3.2 9.9 Net finance income 0.5 12.7 Recognised in equity Current tax credit on share options retained earnings 0.4 2.0 Total current tax recognised directly in equity 0.4 2.0 Deferred tax Recognised in other comprehensive income Deferred tax charge on cash flow hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 1.5 Deferred tax credit charge on cash flow hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.9 0.7 Deferred tax charge credit on net investment hedges deferred in equity hedging reserve 0.1 0.1 Deferred tax credit on net investment hedges transferred to income hedging reserve 0.5 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income 0.8 1.6 Recognised in equity Deferred tax credit charge on share options retained earnings 0.5 6.5 Total deferred tax recognised directly in equity 0.5 6.5 144 145 145 Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Taxation continued The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Profit before taxation 394.8 415.6 Tax at 20% 2016: 20% on profit before taxation 79.0 83.1 Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 14.1 3.4 Permanent differences 5.7 5.5 Tax on dividends not creditable 6.1 1.6 Current year tax losses not recognised 5.5 4.7 Prior year tax losses recognised in the year 0.4 Prior year tax losses no longer recognised 1.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.7 1.8 Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 0.6 1.3 Total taxation charge 107.1 101.0 Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Adjusted profit before taxation 119.3 103.8 Adjusting items 12.2 2.8 Total taxation charge 107.1 101.0 10.
Earnings per share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 342.2 311.7 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 55.4 2.2 Attributable profit for the year 286.8 309.5 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share incentive schemes.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Millions Millions Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 439.1 441.9 Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 3.1 4.2 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 442.2 446.1 146 146 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 9.
Dividends paid to owners of the Company Year to Year to The tax rate applicable on profit varied from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK due to the following factors: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Year to Year to m m 31 March 31 March Prior year final dividend paid 26.8p per share 2016: 25.5p 118.6 112.5 2017 2016 Interim dividend paid 10.5p per share 2016: 10.2p 45.8 45.2 m m Total 164.4 157.7 Profit before taxation 394.8 415.6 Tax at 20% 2016: 20% on profit before taxation 79.0 83.1 A final dividend in respect of the year to 31 March 2017 of 28.4p 2016: 26.8p per share, amounting to 123.6m, has been Rate adjustments relating to overseas profits 14.1 3.4 proposed for approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The final Permanent differences 5.7 5.5 dividend to Burberry Group plc shareholders has not been recognised as a liability at the year end and will be paid on Tax on dividends not creditable 6.1 1.6 4 August 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 July 2017.
Current year tax losses not recognised 5.5 4.7 Prior year tax losses recognised in the year 0.4 12.
Intangible assets Prior year tax losses no longer recognised 1.8 Intangible Trade marks, Adjustments in respect of prior years 5.7 1.8 assets in the licences and Adjustments to deferred tax relating to changes in tax rates 0.6 1.3 Computer course of other intangible 1 Total taxation charge 107.1 101.0 Software construction Goodwill assets Total Cost m m m m m As at 31 March 2015 88.8 87.0 121.0 12.2 309.0 Total taxation recognised in the Group Income Statement arises on: Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 0.2 0.7 Year to Year to Additions 0.6 9.0 21.6 31.2 31 March 31 March Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 2017 2016 Reclassifications from assets in the course m m of construction 10.8 10.8 Adjusted profit before taxation 119.3 103.8 As at 31 March 2016 88.8 87.9 133.7 23.0 333.4 Adjusting items 12.2 2.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 10.8 0.6 3.7 15.1 Total taxation charge 107.1 101.0 Additions 0.3 14.9 18.9 34.1 Disposals 7.5 1.5 9.0 10.
Earnings per share Reclassifications from assets in the course The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss attributable to owners of the Company for the year of construction 20.1 20.1 divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
Basic and diluted earnings per share As at 31 March 2017 99.6 88.8 164.9 20.3 373.6 based on adjusted profit before taxation are also disclosed to indicate the underlying profitability of the Group.
Accumulated amortisation and impairment Year to Year to As at 31 March 2015 37.1 78.4 115.5 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.3 0.6 m m Charge for the year 16.0 19.2 35.2 1 Attributable profit for the year before adjusting items 342.2 311.7 Disposals 0.2 7.3 7.5 1 Effect of adjusting items after taxation 55.4 2.2 As at 31 March 2016 53.2 90.6 143.8 Attributable profit for the year 286.8 309.5 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 2.7 3.1 1 Refer to note 6 for details of adjusting items.
Charge for the year 8.4 21.8 30.2 Disposals 6.6 6.6 The weighted average number of ordinary shares represents the weighted average number of Burberry Group plc ordinary Net impairment charge on assets 18.6 14.4 33.0 shares in issue throughout the year, excluding ordinary shares held in the Groups ESOP trusts.
As at 31 March 2017 80.6 122.9 203.5 Diluted earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year.
In addition, Net book value account is taken of any options and awards made under the employee share incentive schemes, which will have a dilutive As at 31 March 2017 99.6 8.2 42.0 20.3 170.1 effect when exercised.
Refer to note 26 for additional information on the terms and conditions of the employee share As at 31 March 2016 88.8 34.7 43.1 23.0 189.6 incentive schemes.
1 During the year ended 31 March 2017, software assets of 14.4m were impaired, of which 7.3m related to the transfer of the Beauty operations and is included in adjusting items see note 6.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March Fragrance and beauty licence intangible asset 2017 2016 Millions Millions During the year ended 31 March 2013, an intangible asset of 70.9m was recognised on the Balance Sheet, relating to the Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 439.1 441.9 present value of the anticipated incremental income to be earned by the Group as a result of selling Beauty products through Dilutive effect of the employee share incentive schemes 3.1 4.2 retail and wholesale channels rather than under licence following the termination of the existing licence relationship with Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year 442.2 446.1 Interparfums SA.
This asset is presented within the intangible asset category trade mark, licences and other intangible assets, and was being amortised on a straight-line basis over the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2017.
The carrying value of this asset was 26.1m at 31 March 2016.
At 30 September 2016 an impairment charge of 18.6m was recorded to write the carrying value of this intangible asset down to nil.
Refer to note 6 for further details.
146 147 147 Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Intangible assets continued Impairment testing of goodwill The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to the cash generating units is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m 1 China 48.9 45.4 Korea 29.4 25.1 Other 21.3 18.3 Total 99.6 88.8 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations for each cash generating unit are based on projected three-year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the discount rates applied.
The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending 31 March 2020.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2018 and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020.
The plans are based on the performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 31 March 2020 incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2020.
For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2018.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 16.7% and 14.0% respectively 2016: 16.1%: 13.6%.
The other goodwill balance of 21.3m 2016: 18.3m consists of amounts relating to eight cash generating units, none of which have goodwill balances exceeding 10m as at 31 March 2017.
No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
148 148 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 12.
Property, plant and equipment Fixtures, Assets in the Impairment testing of goodwill fittings and Freehold land Leasehold course of The carrying value of the goodwill allocated to the cash generating units is as follows: 1 equipment and buildings improvements construction Total Cost m m m m m As at As at As at 31 March 2015 137.5 361.5 443.5 27.8 970.3 31 March 31 March Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.2 11.7 15.3 0.5 32.7 2017 2016 Additions 15.3 49.5 41.7 8.5 115.0 m m Disposals 12.6 26.7 0.5 39.8 1 China 48.9 45.4 Reclassification from assets in the course Korea 29.4 25.1 of construction 8.2 17.7 25.9 Other 21.3 18.3 As at 31 March 2016 159.0 418.3 491.5 9.4 1,078.2 Total 99.6 88.8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 18.4 47.5 43.7 1.0 110.6 Additions 0.4 37.4 27.0 13.2 78.0 1 The goodwill reported for China does not include any goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest.
Disposals 29.2 32.4 28.5 0.4 90.5 Reclassification from assets in the course The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually or where there is an indication that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable of construction 4.0 4.7 8.7 amount of all cash generating units has been determined on a value-in-use basis.
Value-in-use calculations for each cash As at 31 March 2017 148.6 474.8 538.4 14.5 1,176.3 generating unit are based on projected three-year pre-tax discounted cash flows together with a discounted terminal value.
The cash flows have been discounted at pre-tax rates reflecting the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for Accumulated depreciation and impairment country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the cash generating unit has a non-controlling interest which was recognised As at 31 March 2015 48.2 181.3 304.3 533.8 at a value equal to its proportionate interest in the net identifiable assets of the acquired subsidiary at the acquisition date, Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 2.8 4.9 10.7 18.4 the carrying amount of the goodwill has been grossed to include the goodwill attributable to the non-controlling interest, Charge for the year 3.3 45.9 62.7 111.9 for the purpose of impairment testing the goodwill attributable to the cash generating unit.
The key assumptions contained Disposals 12.4 26.2 38.6 in the value-in-use calculations include the future revenues, the margins achieved, the assumed life of the business and the Net impairment charge on assets 2.3 13.7 10.5 26.5 discount rates applied.
As at 31 March 2016 56.6 233.4 362.0 652.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.7 28.5 33.2 68.4 Charge for the year 4.3 52.3 64.7 121.3 The value-in-use calculations have been prepared using managements approved financial plans for the three years ending Disposals 21.3 32.0 27.6 80.9 31 March 2020.
These plans contain managements best view of the expected performance for the year ending 31 March 2018 Net impairment charge on assets 0.6 8.1 7.2 15.9 and the expected growth rates for the two years ending 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020.
The plans are based on the As at 31 March 2017 46.9 290.3 439.5 776.7 performance achieved in the current year and managements knowledge of the market environment and future business plans.
A terminal value has been included in the value-in-use calculation based on the cash flows for the year ending 31 March 2020 Net book value incorporating the assumption that there is no growth beyond 31 March 2020.
As at 31 March 2017 101.7 184.5 98.9 14.5 399.6 As at 31 March 2016 102.4 184.9 129.5 9.4 426.2 For the material goodwill balances of China and Korea, a sensitivity analysis has been performed on the value-in-use 1 Included in fixtures, fittings and equipment are finance lease assets with a net book value of 1.3m 2016: 1.7m.
calculations by assuming no growth beyond the year ending 31 March 2018.
This sensitivity analysis indicated significant headroom between the recoverable amount under this scenario and the carrying value of goodwill and therefore management During the year to 31 March 2017, a net impairment charge of 23.0m 2016: 45.3m was recorded as a result of the annual considered no further detailed sensitivity analysis was required.
review of impairment of retail store assets.
A charge of 15.3m 2016: 24.2m was recognised against property, plant and equipment, and 7.7m 2016: 21.1m was charged in relation to onerous lease provisions.
Refer to note 20 for further details The pre-tax discount rates for China and Korea were 16.7% and 14.0% respectively 2016: 16.1%: 13.6%.
The other goodwill balance of 21.3m 2016: 18.3m consists of amounts relating to eight cash generating units, none of Where indicators of impairment were identified, the impairment review compared the value-in-use of the cash generating units which have goodwill balances exceeding 10m as at 31 March 2017. to the carrying values at 31 March 2017.
The pre-tax cash flow projections were based on financial plans of expected revenues and costs for each retail cash generating unit, as approved by management, and extrapolated beyond the budget year to the No impairment has been recognised in respect of the carrying value of the goodwill balance in the year as, for each cash lease exit dates using growth rates and inflation rates appropriate to each stores location.
The pre-tax discount rates used generating unit, the recoverable amount of goodwill exceeds its carrying value.
in these calculations were between 11.4% and 21.6% 2016: between 11.4% and 19.7%, based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted for country-specific tax rates and risks.
Where the value-in-use was less than the carrying value of the cash generating unit, an impairment of property, plant and equipment was recorded.
Where the value-in-use was negative, onerous lease provisions were assessed in relation to the future contracted minimum lease payments.
Potential alternative uses for property, such as subletting of leasehold or sale of freehold, were considered in estimating both the value for impairment charges and onerous lease provisions.
148 149 149 Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued Management has considered the potential impact of changes in assumptions on the total recorded as a result of the review for impairment of retail store assets and consideration of onerous lease provisions.
The most significant estimate is the future level of revenues achieved by the retail stores.
It is estimated that, for the stores subject to an impairment or onerous lease provision in the year, a 5% decrease increase in revenue assumptions for the year ending 31 March 2018, with no change to subsequent forecast revenue growth rate assumptions, would result in an 8m increase 9m decrease in the charge in the year ended 31 March 2017.
The impairment charge recorded in property, plant and equipment relates to 33 retail cash generating units 2016: 32 retail cash generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 22.0m 2016: 18.2m.
Impairment charges of 0.6m 2016: 2.3m arose relating to other assets in the year.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown in the table below: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 125.0 134.4 Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.6 Net amount 124.6 133.8 Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m As at 1 April 133.8 144.1 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 13.5 2.8 Charged to the Income Statement 24.0 5.0 Credited charged to other comprehensive income 0.8 1.6 Credited charged to equity 0.5 6.5 As at 31 March 124.6 133.8 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities Unrealised inventory profit and other Capital inventory Derivative allowances provisions instruments Other Total m m m m m As at 31 March 2015 2.2 1.1 1.5 1.6 4.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 0.2 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2016 2.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 4.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.5 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.6 0.1 4.3 4.8 As at 31 March 2017 3.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 9.3 150 150 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued 14.
Deferred taxation continued Management has considered the potential impact of changes in assumptions on the total recorded as a result of the review for Deferred tax assets Unrealised impairment of retail store assets and consideration of onerous lease provisions.
The most significant estimate is the future level inventory profit of revenues achieved by the retail stores.
It is estimated that, for the stores subject to an impairment or onerous lease provision and other in the year, a 5% decrease increase in revenue assumptions for the year ending 31 March 2018, with no change to subsequent Capital inventory Share Derivative Unused 1 Other allowances provisions schemes instruments tax losses Total forecast revenue growth rate assumptions, would result in an 8m increase 9m decrease in the charge in the year ended m m m m m m m 31 March 2017.
As at 31 March 2015 7.5 40.3 21.8 1.3 5.8 71.6 148.3 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.4 1.8 0.7 0.9 3.0 The impairment charge recorded in property, plant and equipment relates to 33 retail cash generating units 2016: 32 retail Credited charged to the Income Statement 4.4 4.8 6.0 0.4 8.6 5.0 cash generating units for which the total recoverable amount at the balance sheet date is 22.0m 2016: 18.2m.
Impairment Charged to other comprehensive income 2.0 2.0 charges of 0.6m 2016: 2.3m arose relating to other assets in the year.
Deferred taxation Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.5 7.5 0.6 6.4 14.0 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current Credited charged to the Income Statement 3.2 4.4 1.4 2.1 14.5 19.2 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.8 0.8 tax liabilities and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, and to the same fiscal authority.
The offset amounts are shown Credited to equity 0.5 0.5 in the table below: As at 31 March 2017 14.2 50.0 8.4 0.1 5.4 55.8 133.9 As at As at 1 Deferred tax balances within the Other category in the analysis above include temporary differences arising on property provisions of 9.1m 2016: 8.5m, accrued 31 March 31 March intercompany expenses of 20.2m 2016: 23.0m and other provisions and accruals of 26.5m 2016: 32.4m.
2017 2016 m m Deferred tax assets 125.0 134.4 Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realisation of the related benefit through Deferred tax liabilities 0.4 0.6 the future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise deferred tax assets of 79.8m 2016: 62.3m in respect Net amount 124.6 133.8 of losses and temporary timing differences amounting to 272.2m 2016: 215.1m that can be set off against future taxable income.
There is a time limit for the recovery of 37.0m of these potential assets 2016: 24.8m which ranges from two to ten years 2016: three to ten years.
Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Included within other temporary differences above is a deferred tax liability of 5.0m 2016: 1.2m relating to unremitted The movement in the deferred tax account is as follows: m m overseas earnings.
No deferred tax liability is provided in respect of any future remittance of earnings of foreign subsidiaries As at 1 April 133.8 144.1 where the Group is able to control the remittance of earnings and it is probable that such earnings will not be remitted in the Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 13.5 2.8 Charged to the Income Statement 24.0 5.0 foreseeable future, or where no liability would arise on the remittance.
The aggregate amount of temporary differences in Credited charged to other comprehensive income 0.8 1.6 respect of unremitted earnings is 300m 2016: 270m.
Credited charged to equity 0.5 6.5 As at 31 March 124.6 133.8 The movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting of balances within the same tax jurisdiction, is as follows: Deferred tax liabilities Unrealised inventory profit and other Capital inventory Derivative allowances provisions instruments Other Total m m m m m As at 31 March 2015 2.2 1.1 1.5 1.6 4.2 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 0.2 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.4 0.2 0.6 Credited to other comprehensive income 0.4 0.4 As at 31 March 2016 2.8 0.9 1.1 1.0 4.0 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.5 Charged credited to the Income Statement 0.6 0.1 4.3 4.8 As at 31 March 2017 3.7 1.1 1.1 5.6 9.3 150 151 151 Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Non-current Deposits and other financial receivables 44.9 37.5 Other non-financial receivables 3.7 2.8 Prepayments 27.8 26.2 Total non-current trade and other receivables 76.4 66.5 Current Trade receivables 201.3 205.1 Provision for doubtful debts 9.5 7.2 Net trade receivables 191.8 197.9 Other financial receivables 22.3 20.9 Other non-financial receivables 20.4 27.5 Prepayments 38.1 35.4 Accrued income 3.0 3.7 Total current trade and other receivables 275.6 285.4 Total trade and other receivables 352.0 351.9 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 90.0m 2016: 91.9m.
The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2017, trade receivables of 17.2m 2016: 18.2m were impaired.
The amount of the provision against these receivables was 9.5m as at 31 March 2017 2016: 7.2m.
It was assessed that a portion of the receivables is expected to be recovered.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Current 3.7 Less than 1 month overdue 7.0 11.5 1 to 3 months overdue 2.3 1.5 Over 3 months overdue 7.9 1.5 17.2 18.2 152 152 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 15.
Trade and other receivables continued As at As at As at 31 March 2017, trade receivables of 20.9m 2016: 9.3m were overdue but not impaired.
The ageing of these overdue 31 March 31 March receivables is as follows: 2017 2016 m m As at As at Non-current 31 March 31 March Deposits and other financial receivables 44.9 37.5 2017 2016 Other non-financial receivables 3.7 2.8 m m Prepayments 27.8 26.2 Less than 1 month overdue 8.4 4.3 Total non-current trade and other receivables 76.4 66.5 1 to 3 months overdue 12.1 4.1 Current Over 3 months overdue 0.4 0.9 Trade receivables 201.3 205.1 20.9 9.3 Provision for doubtful debts 9.5 7.2 Net trade receivables 191.8 197.9 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts is as follows: Other financial receivables 22.3 20.9 Other non-financial receivables 20.4 27.5 Year to Year to Prepayments 38.1 35.4 31 March 31 March Accrued income 3.0 3.7 2017 2016 Total current trade and other receivables 275.6 285.4 m m Total trade and other receivables 352.0 351.9 As at 1 April 7.2 4.6 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 Increase in provision for doubtful debts 2.4 3.1 Included in total trade and other receivables are non-financial assets of 90.0m 2016: 91.9m.
Receivables written off during the year as uncollectable 0.3 0.5 As at 31 March 9.5 7.2 The individually impaired receivables relate to balances with trading parties which have passed their payment due dates or where uncertainty exists over recoverability.
As at 31 March 2017 there were 1.6m impaired receivables within other receivables 2016: 1.5m.
The ageing of the impaired trade receivables is as follows: The carrying amounts of the Groups non-derivative financial assets excluding cash and cash equivalents by customer geographical location are: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 As at As at m m 31 March 31 March Current 3.7 2017 2016 m m Less than 1 month overdue 7.0 11.5 Asia Pacific 120.4 99.3 1 to 3 months overdue 2.3 1.5 EMEIA 78.1 89.1 Over 3 months overdue 7.9 1.5 Americas 63.5 71.6 17.2 18.2 262.0 260.0 16.
Inventories As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Raw materials 32.7 38.3 Work in progress 1.8 1.3 Finished goods 470.8 447.1 Total inventories 505.3 486.7 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 795.9m 2016: 723.3m.
The net movement in inventory provisions included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 March 2017 was a cost of 21.1m 2016: 24.9m.
The cost of finished goods physically destroyed in the year was 26.9m 2016: 18.8m.
152 153 153 Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments Master netting arrangements The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject to these ISDA agreements.
Derivative financial assets As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 3.2 7.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.5 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.3 Equity swap contracts held for trading 2.1 0.5 Total position 6.1 8.3 Comprising: Total non-current position 1.1 0.3 Total current position 5.0 8.0 Derivative financial liabilities As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.6 1.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.4 0.8 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 2.5 0.1 Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.1 Total position 3.5 2.3 All derivative financial liabilities are current.
Net derivative financial instruments The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange and equity swap contracts at year end are: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Cash flow hedges 129.1 107.4 Hedge of net investment 74.7 17.4 1 Held for trading 122.6 61.4 Equity swap contracts 5.9 5.9 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading are used for cash management purposes.
At 31 March 2017 all such contracts had maturities of no greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
154 154 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 17.
Derivative financial instruments continued Master netting arrangements Contractual maturities of derivatives used for hedging The Groups forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts are entered into under International Swaps and The gross inflows outflows disclosed in the table below represent the contractual undiscounted cash flows relating to Derivatives Association ISDA master netting arrangements.
In general, under such agreements the amounts owed by each derivative financial assets and liabilities held for risk management purposes.
They are usually not closed out prior to the counterparty on a single day in respect of all transactions outstanding in the same currency are aggregated into a single contractual maturity.
The foreign currency cash flows shown are based on spot rates at the balance sheet date.
amount that is payable by one party to the other.
In certain circumstances, such as when a default occurs, all outstanding Contractual maturities transactions under the agreement are terminated, the termination value is assessed and only a single net amount is payable Contractual 1 to 6 6 to 12 in settlement of all transactions.
The ISDA agreements do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the Balance Sheet as the Carrying amount cash flows months months Groups right to offset is enforceable only on the occurrence of future events such as default.
The Groups Balance Sheet m m m m would not be materially different if it had offset its forward foreign exchange contracts and equity swap contracts subject As at 31 March 2017 to these ISDA agreements.
Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: Outflow 204.1 120.4 83.7 Inflow 206.1 123.2 82.9 Derivative financial assets As at As at 2.7 2.0 2.8 0.8 31 March 31 March As at 31 March 2016 2017 2016 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging: m m Outflow 124.2 45.7 78.5 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 3.2 7.8 Inflow 130.2 50.4 79.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.5 5.7 6.0 4.7 1.3 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 0.3 Equity swap contracts held for trading 2.1 0.5 The contractual maturity profile of non-current financial liabilities is shown in note 25.
For further details of cash flow hedging Total position 6.1 8.3 Comprising: and net investment hedging refer to note 25 Market risk.
Total non-current position 1.1 0.3 Total current position 5.0 8.0 18.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 31 March 31 March Derivative financial liabilities 2017 2016 As at As at m m 31 March 31 March Cash at bank and in hand 268.7 282.1 2017 2016 Short-term deposits 574.8 429.7 m m Total 843.5 711.8 Forward foreign exchange contracts cash flow hedges 0.6 1.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge of net investment 0.4 0.8 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts held for trading 2.5 0.1 19.
Trade and other payables Equity swap contracts held for trading 0.1 As at As at Total position 3.5 2.3 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m All derivative financial liabilities are current.
Non-current Put option liability over non-controlling interest 45.8 Net derivative financial instruments Other payables 2.5 3.0 The notional principal amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange and equity swap contracts at year end are: Deferred income and non-financial accruals 75.6 65.9 Deferred consideration 23.8 Total non-current trade and other payables 101.9 114.7 As at As at 31 March 31 March Current 2017 2016 Trade payables 172.3 167.2 m m Other taxes and social security costs 58.7 58.3 Cash flow hedges 129.1 107.4 1 Other payables 8.2 3.9 Hedge of net investment 74.7 17.4 Accruals 186.9 132.4 1 Held for trading 122.6 61.4 Deferred income and non-financial accruals 22.1 25.4 Equity swap contracts 5.9 5.9 Deferred consideration 10.9 1 Forward foreign exchange contracts classified as held for trading are used for cash management purposes.
At 31 March 2017 all such contracts had maturities of no Total current trade and other payables 459.1 387.2 greater than three months from the balance sheet date.
Total trade and other payables 561.0 501.9 1 Includes 3.3m 2016: nil relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under an agreement entered in to by the Company to purchase its own shares, together with anticipated stamp duty arising.
Refer to note 22 for further details.
Included in total trade and other payables are non-financial liabilities of 156.5m 2016: 149.6m.
154 155 155 Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other payables continued Put option liability over non-controlling interest Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group company, retained a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options were granted over this interest stake which were exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the case of the put option.
The net present value of the put option liability was recognised as a non-current financial liability under IAS 39.
On 1 August 2016, the Group exercised the call option relating to the economic interest.
As a result, the put option expired at this date.
The value of the put option liability is nil at 31 March 2017 2016: 45.8m.
The movement in the liability for the period includes an increase of 1.0m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, together with an increase due to the translation of the put option liability to the Groups presentational currency, combined with the derecognition of 51.0m on its expiry.
Refer to note 29 for further details.
Deferred consideration Following the purchase of the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC on 22 April 2016, the Group has recognised a liability in relation to the deferred consideration for this transaction.
The deferred consideration consists of fixed payments to be paid over the period 2016 to 2019, and contingent payments calculated as an agreed percentage of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, over the period 2016 to 2023.
The fair value of the deferred consideration relating to the fixed payments has been derived via a present value calculation of the remaining fixed payments of AED 38.1m 8.3m discounted at an appropriate risk-free rate applicable to Burberry Middle East LLC.
The fair value of the deferred consideration relating to the contingent payments has been estimated using a present value calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
The inputs applied in arriving at the value of this component of the deferred consideration are an estimate of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries from the current period to 2023 and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate for Burberry Middle East LLC.
The carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these inputs, and is subject to change in the event that there is a change in any of these assumptions.
The valuation is updated at every reporting period or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
A 10% increase decrease in the estimate of future revenues of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries would result in a 2.3m increase decrease in the carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments at 31 March 2017 and a corresponding 2.3m decrease increase in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2017.
156 156 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 19.
Trade and other payables continued 20.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Property Restructuring Other Put option liability over non-controlling interest obligations costs costs Total Following the acquisition of the Burberry retail and distribution business in China, Sparkle Roll Holdings Limited, a non-Group m m m m company, retained a 15% economic interest in the Groups business in China.
Put and call options were granted over this Balance as at 31 March 2015 29.4 0.8 2.3 32.5 interest stake which were exercisable after 1 September 2015 in the case of the call option, and after 1 September 2020 in the Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 1.0 0.1 1.1 case of the put option.
The net present value of the put option liability was recognised as a non-current financial liability under Created during the year 30.8 2.2 33.0 IAS 39.
As a result, the put option Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 Utilised during the year 5.8 0.1 0.2 6.1 expired at this date.
Released during the year 3.7 0.7 0.2 4.6 Balance as at 31 March 2016 51.8 4.2 56.0 The value of the put option liability is nil at 31 March 2017 2016: 45.8m.
The movement in the liability for the period includes Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 6.2 0.1 6.3 an increase of 1.0m relating to unrealised fair value movements, as described in note 6, together with an increase due to the Created during the year 18.8 6.9 25.7 translation of the put option liability to the Groups presentational currency, combined with the derecognition of 51.0m on its Discount unwind 0.1 0.1 expiry.
Utilised during the year 11.1 1.0 12.1 Released during the year 8.1 2.5 10.6 Deferred consideration Balance as at 31 March 2017 57.7 7.7 65.4 Following the purchase of the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC on 22 April 2016, the Group has recognised a liability in relation to the deferred consideration for this transaction.
Refer to note 29 for further Within property obligations are amounts of 30.3m 2016: 27.0m relating to onerous lease obligations.
See note 13 for details details of this transaction.
The deferred consideration consists of fixed payments to be paid over the period 2016 to 2019, relating to impairment of assets and onerous lease provisions for retail cash generating units.
and contingent payments calculated as an agreed percentage of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, over the period 2016 to 2023.
The net charge in the year for onerous lease obligations is 7.9m 2016: 20.1m.
This includes amounts of 7.7m 2016: 21.1m relating to retail stores refer to note 13 and a charge of 0.2m 2016: credit of 1.0m relating to other properties.
As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 The fair value of the deferred consideration relating to the contingent payments has been estimated using a present value m m calculation, incorporating observable and non-observable inputs.
The inputs applied in arriving at the value of this component Analysis of total provisions: of the deferred consideration are an estimate of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries from Non-current 47.3 38.4 the current period to 2023 and an appropriate risk-adjusted discount rate for Burberry Middle East LLC.
Current 18.1 17.6 Total 65.4 56.0 The carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments is dependent on assumptions applied in determining these inputs, and is subject to change in the event that there is a change in any of these assumptions.
The non-current provisions relate to provisions for onerous leases and property reinstatement costs which are expected The valuation is updated at every reporting period or more often if a significant change to any input is observed.
to be utilised within 19 years 2016: 20 years.
A 10% increase decrease in the estimate of future revenues of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries would 21.
Bank overdrafts and borrowings result in a 2.3m increase decrease in the carrying value of the deferred consideration relating to contingent payments at Included within bank overdrafts is 31.3m 2016: 44.9m representing balances on cash pooling arrangements in the Group.
31 March 2017 and a corresponding 2.3m decrease increase in the profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Group has a number of committed and uncommitted arrangements agreed with third-parties.
At 31 March 2017, the Group held bank overdrafts of 3.0m 2016: 6.6m excluding balances on cash pooling arrangements.
On 25 November 2014, the Group entered into a 300m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks.
At 31 March 2017, there were nil outstanding drawings 2016: nil.
During the year the Group exercised an option to extend the maturity of the facility to November 2021, after receiving consent from all members of the syndicate.
The Group is in compliance with the financial and other covenants within this facility and has been in compliance throughout the financial year.
The fair value of borrowings and overdrafts approximate the carrying amount because of the short maturity of these instruments.
156 157 157 Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Share capital and reserves Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2016: 0.05p each As at 31 March 2015 444,744,067 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 293,187 As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 135,811 As at 31 March 2017 445,173,065 0.2 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase 100m of its own shares back as part of a share buy-back programme.
Own shares purchased by the Company, as part of a share buy-back programme, are classified as treasury shares and their cost offset against retained earnings.
When treasury shares are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to capital redemption reserve, equivalent to the nominal value of the shares purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cost of shares purchased by ESOP trusts are offset against retained earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
As at 31 March 2017 the amount held as treasury shares by the Company and offset against retained earnings is 97.2m 2016: nil including stamp duty of 0.5m 2016: nil.
As at 31 March 2017 the Company held 6.7m treasury shares 2016: nil, with a market value of 116.1m 2016: nil.
3.3m 2016: nil, relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under the current share buy-back agreement, has been charged to retained earnings in the period, with the payment obligation recognised in other payables note 19.
As at 31 March 2017 the amount of own shares held by ESOP trusts and offset against retained earnings is 44.7m 2016: 39.9m.
As at 31 March 2017, the ESOP trusts held 3.5m shares 2016: 3.1m in the Company, with a market value of 59.6m 2016: 42.7m.
In the year to 31 March 2017 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends of 1.7m 2016: 1.2m.
During the year profits of nil 2016: 2.0m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of subsidiaries.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, 6.2m was transferred from capital reserves to retained earnings due to the disposal and merger of subsidiaries.
No such activity took place in the current year.
The capital reserve consists of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
Other reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity consists of the capital reserve, the foreign currency translation reserve, and the hedging reserves.
The hedging reserves consist of the cash flow hedge reserve and the net investment hedge reserve.
Hedging reserves Foreign Net currency Capital Cash flow investment translation reserve hedges hedge reserve Total m m m m m Balance as at 31 March 2015 45.3 4.4 4.1 147.3 192.3 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 7.3 7.3 Cash flow hedges losses transferred to income 3.5 3.5 Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 0.8 0.8 Foreign currency translation differences 19.5 19.5 Tax on other comprehensive income 2.2 0.6 1.9 3.5 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 8.6 0.2 17.6 26.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 6.2 6.2 Transfer between reserves 2.0 2.0 Balance as at 31 March 2016 41.1 4.2 3.9 164.9 214.1 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 8.7 8.7 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 4.0 4.0 Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 2.3 2.3 Foreign currency translation differences 101.3 101.3 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.0 0.5 5.4 5.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 3.7 1.8 95.9 97.8 Balance as at 31 March 2017 41.1 7.9 2.1 260.8 311.9 158 158 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 22.
Financial commitments The Group leases various retail stores, offices, warehouses and equipment under non-cancellable operating lease Allotted, called up and fully paid share capital Number m arrangements.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The Group has commitments relating Ordinary shares of 0.05p 2016: 0.05p each to future minimum lease payments under these non-cancellable operating leases as follows: As at 31 March 2015 444,744,067 0.2 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 293,187 As at As at As at 31 March 2016 445,037,254 0.2 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Allotted on exercise of options during the year 135,811 m m As at 31 March 2017 445,173,065 0.2 Amounts falling due: Within 1 year 221.9 206.2 The Company has a general authority from shareholders, renewed at each Annual General Meeting, to repurchase a maximum Between 2 and 5 years 524.0 461.3 of 10% of its issued share capital.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase After 5 years 163.6 188.9 100m of its own shares back as part of a share buy-back programme.
Own shares purchased by the Company, as part of a Total 909.5 856.4 share buy-back programme, are classified as treasury shares and their cost offset against retained earnings.
When treasury shares are cancelled, a transfer is made from retained earnings to capital redemption reserve, equivalent to the nominal value The financial commitments for operating lease amounts calculated as a percentage of revenue revenue leases have been of the shares purchased and subsequently cancelled.
The cost of shares purchased by ESOP trusts are offset against retained based on the minimum payment that is required under the terms of the relevant lease excluding any contingent payments.
earnings, as the amounts paid reduce the profits available for distribution by the Company.
Under certain revenue-based leases, there are no minimums and therefore no financial commitment is included in the table above.
As a result, the amounts charged to the Income Statement may be materially higher than the financial commitment As at 31 March 2017 the amount held as treasury shares by the Company and offset against retained earnings is 97.2m 2016: nil at the prior year end.
including stamp duty of 0.5m 2016: nil.
3.3m 2016: nil, relating to the cost of shares not yet purchased under the current share buy-back The total of future minimum payments to be received under non-cancellable leases on investment properties and subleases agreement, has been charged to retained earnings in the period, with the payment obligation recognised in other payables note 19. on land and buildings is as follows: As at 31 March 2017 the amount of own shares held by ESOP trusts and offset against retained earnings is 44.7m Leases Subleases 2016: 39.9m.
As at 31 March 2017, the ESOP trusts held 3.5m shares 2016: 3.1m in the Company, with a market value As at As at As at As at 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March of 59.6m 2016: 42.7m.
In the year to 31 March 2017 the ESOP trusts have waived their entitlement to dividends of 2017 2016 2017 2016 1.7m 2016: 1.2m.
m m m m Amounts falling due: During the year profits of nil 2016: 2.0m have been transferred to capital reserves due to statutory requirements of Within 1 year 0.8 0.7 2.4 2.3 subsidiaries.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, 6.2m was transferred from capital reserves to retained earnings due Between 2 and 5 years 1.5 2.1 1.6 3.4 After 5 years 0.1 to the disposal and merger of subsidiaries.
The capital reserve consists Total 2.3 2.8 4.1 5.7 of non-distributable reserves and the capital redemption reserve arising on the purchase of own shares.
Capital commitments Other reserves in the Statement of Changes in Equity consists of the capital reserve, the foreign currency translation reserve, As at As at and the hedging reserves.
31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Hedging reserves m m Foreign Capital commitments contracted but not provided for: Net currency Property, plant and equipment 13.2 15.2 Capital Cash flow investment translation Intangible assets 3.2 1.6 reserve hedges hedge reserve Total m m m m m Total 16.4 16.8 Balance as at 31 March 2015 45.3 4.4 4.1 147.3 192.3 Other comprehensive income: Contracted capital commitments represent contracts entered into by the year end and future work in respect of major Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 7.3 7.3 capital expenditure projects where activity has commenced by the year end relating to property, plant and equipment Cash flow hedges losses transferred to income 3.5 3.5 and intangible assets.
Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 0.8 0.8 Foreign currency translation differences 19.5 19.5 Tax on other comprehensive income 2.2 0.6 1.9 3.5 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 8.6 0.2 17.6 26.0 Disposal of subsidiaries 6.2 6.2 Transfer between reserves 2.0 2.0 Balance as at 31 March 2016 41.1 4.2 3.9 164.9 214.1 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges gains deferred in equity 8.7 8.7 Cash flow hedges gains transferred to income 4.0 4.0 Net investment hedges losses deferred in equity 2.3 2.3 Foreign currency translation differences 101.3 101.3 Tax on other comprehensive income 1.0 0.5 5.4 5.9 Total comprehensive income for the year 3.7 1.8 95.9 97.8 Balance as at 31 March 2017 41.1 7.9 2.1 260.8 311.9 158 159 159 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings including overdrafts, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash and cash equivalents safely and profitably.
Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
The policies of Group Treasury are reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors.
The Group uses derivative instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign exchange contracts see note 17.
These transactions are recorded as cash flow hedges.
The Groups foreign currency transactions arise principally from purchases and sales of inventory.
The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
Currently, the Group does not hedge intercompany foreign currency transactions.
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for reporting purposes.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge net assets of overseas subsidiaries, relating to surplus cash whose remittance is foreseeable.
The outstanding net investment hedges as at 31 March 2017 had a principal value of KRW 28.5bn 20.3m and CNY 471m 54.6m, 2016: KRW 42.7bn 26.0m and CNY nil.
At 31 March 2017, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening by 20% 2016: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 18.2m 2016: decrease increase 16.5m.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges would have been to decrease increase equity by 7.6m 2016: decrease increase 11.5m on a post-tax basis.
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to manage currency exposure.
Monetary assets and liabilities refer to cash, deposits, borrowings and other amounts to be received or paid in cash.
Amounts exclude intercompany balances which eliminate on consolidation.
Foreign exchange differences on retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put option liability over the non-controlling interest which is recognised in Other financing income and charges.
As at 31 March 2017 As at 31 March 2016 Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net m m m m m m Sterling 1.5 0.6 0.9 0.2 0.6 0.4 US Dollar 37.0 14.3 22.7 41.4 11.0 30.4 Euro 33.7 32.7 1.0 44.5 36.4 8.1 1 Chinese Yuan Renminbi 8.4 8.4 0.4 47.5 47.1 Other currencies 3.6 3.9 0.3 5.2 2.6 2.6 Total 84.2 51.5 32.7 91.7 98.1 6.4 1 The balance at 31 March 2016 includes the put option liability over the non-controlling interest refer to note 19.
The value of this liability was nil at 31 March 2017.
160 160 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued The Groups principal financial instruments comprise derivatives, cash and short-term deposits, external borrowings Market risk continued including overdrafts, trade and other receivables, and trade and other payables arising directly from operations.
Share price risk The Group is exposed to employers national insurance liability due to the implementation of various employee share The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risks including foreign exchange risk, share price risk incentive schemes.
and interest rate risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk.
To reduce exposure to fluctuations in the employers national insurance liability due to movements in the Groups share price, Risk management is carried out by the Group treasury department Group Treasury based on forecast business requirements the Group has a policy of entering into equity swaps at the time of granting share options and awards.
The Group does not to reduce financial risk and to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest in cash and cash seek hedge accounting treatment for equity swaps.
The Group monitors its exposure to fluctuations in the employers national equivalents safely and profitably.
Group Treasury does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the insurance liability on an ongoing basis.
The net impact of an increase decrease in the share price of 50.0p would have resulted underlying business requirements.
in an increase decrease in profit after tax of nil 2016: nil.
Interest rate risk Market risk The Groups exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to cash, short-term deposits and external Foreign exchange risk borrowings including overdrafts.
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures.
The floating rate financial liabilities at 31 March 2017 are 34.3m 2016: 51.5m.
This includes cash pool overdraft balances The Groups Income Statement is affected by transactions denominated in foreign currency.
To reduce exposure to currency of 31.3m 2016: 44.9m which are offset by cash balances for the purpose of interest calculations.
At 31 March 2017 the fluctuations, the Group has a policy of hedging foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward foreign remaining borrowings were 3.0m 2016: 6.6m and any change in interest rates would not significantly impact profit.
The floating rate financial assets as at 31 March 2017 comprise short-term deposits of 574.8m 2016: 429.7m, interest bearing current accounts of 34.2m 2016: 41.7m and cash pool asset balances of 32.9m 2016: 45.4m.
At 31 March 2017, The Groups treasury risk management policy is to hedge anticipated cash flows in each major foreign currency that qualify if interest rates on floating rate financial assets had been 100 basis points higher lower 2016: 100 basis points, excluding the as highly probable forecast transactions for hedge accounting purposes within the current or previous year.
Currently, the impact on cash pool asset balances and with all other variables held constant, post-tax profit for the year would have been Group does not hedge intercompany foreign currency transactions.
3.9m 2016: 3.6m higher lower, as a result of higher lower interest income.
The Group monitors the desirability of hedging the net assets of overseas subsidiaries when translated into Sterling for Credit risk reporting purposes.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge net assets of overseas subsidiaries, relating The Group has no significant concentrations of credit risk.
The trade receivables balance is spread across a large number to surplus cash whose remittance is foreseeable.
The outstanding net investment hedges as at 31 March 2017 had a principal of different customers with no single debtor representing more than 7% of the total balance due 2016: 10%.
has policies in place to ensure that wholesale sales are made to customers with an appropriate credit history.
Sales to retail customers are made in cash or via major credit cards.
In addition, receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis At 31 March 2017, the Group has performed a sensitivity analysis to determine the effect of Sterling strengthening weakening with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant and default rates have historically been very low.
by 20% 2016: 20% against other currencies with all other variables held constant.
The effect on translating foreign currency An ageing of overdue receivables is included in note 15. denominated net cash, trade, intercompany and other financial receivables and payables and financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss would have been to decrease increase operating profit for the year by 18.2m 2016: decrease During the year ended 31 March 2013 the Group entered into a retail leasing arrangement in the Republic of Korea.
The effect on translating forward foreign exchange contracts designated as cash flow hedges would have of this arrangement, a KRW 27bn 19.3m 15 year interest-free loan was provided to the landlord.
The Group holds a registered been to decrease increase equity by 7.6m 2016: decrease increase 11.5m on a post-tax basis.
mortgage over the leased property for the equivalent value of the loan which acts as collateral.
At 31 March 2017 the discounted fair value of the loan is 14.8m 2016: 13.9m.
The book value of the loan, recorded at amortised cost, is 13.3m 2016: 11.0m.
The following table shows the extent to which the Group has monetary assets and liabilities at the year end in currencies other Other than this arrangement, the Group does not hold any other collateral as security.
The maximum exposure to credit risk at than the local currency of operation, after accounting for the effect of any specific forward foreign exchange contracts used to the reporting date with respect to trade and other receivables is approximated by the carrying amount on the Balance Sheet.
Foreign exchange differences on With respect to credit risk arising from other financial assets, which comprise cash and short-term deposits and certain retranslation of these assets and liabilities are recognised in Net operating expenses with the exception of the put option liability derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from the default of the counterparty with a maximum over the non-controlling interest which is recognised in Other financing income and charges.
exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments.
The Group has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any financial institution and only deposits funds with independently rated financial institutions with a minimum rating of As at 31 March 2017 As at 31 March 2016 A other than where required for operational purposes.
A total of 13.4m 2016: 49.1m was held with institutions with a Monetary Monetary Monetary Monetary rating below A at 31 March 2017, of which nil 2016: 38.6m was held in a UK government majority owned institution.
assets liabilities Net assets liabilities Net These amounts are monitored on a weekly basis and regularly reported to the Board.
160 161 161 Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, see note 21.
All short-term trade and other payables, accruals, bank overdrafts and borrowings mature within one year or less.
The carrying value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: As at As at 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m In more than 1 year, but not more than 2 years 13.0 10.0 In more than 2 years, but not more than 3 years 8.7 5.0 In more than 3 years, but not more than 4 years 9.5 4.8 In more than 4 years, but not more than 5 years 8.2 83.7 In more than 5 years 19.6 16.7 Total financial liabilities 59.0 120.2 Other non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over non-controlling interests.
Capital risk The Board reviews the Groups capital allocation policy annually.
Our capital allocation framework defines our priorities for uses of cash, underpinned by our principle to maintain a strong balance sheet with solid investment grade credit metrics.
The framework has four priorities: re-investment in the business to drive organic growth: maintaining a progressive dividend policy: continuing to pursue selective strategic investment: and to the extent that there is surplus capital to these needs, provide additional returns to shareholders.
At 31 March 2017, the Group had net cash of 809.2m 2016: 660.3m and total equity excluding non-controlling interests of 1,692.5m 2016: 1,565.0m.
The Group has access to a facility of 300m which was undrawn at 31 March 2017.
For further details refer to note 21.
In May 2016, having considered the future cash generation, growth, productivity and investment plans, taking into consideration the current challenging external environment and relevant financial parameters, the Group decided to commence a share buyback programme of up to 150m.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase 100m of its own shares back as part of the share buy-back programme.
At 31 March 2017 the Company had purchased 97.2m of its own shares including stamp duty.
For further details refer to note 22.
162 162 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 25.
Employee costs Liquidity risk Staff costs, including the cost of directors, incurred during the year are as shown below.
Directors remuneration, which The Groups financial risk management policy aims to ensure that sufficient cash is maintained to meet foreseeable needs is separately disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 111 and forms part of these financial and close out market positions.
Due to the dynamic nature of the underlying business, Group Treasury aims to maintain statements, includes, for those share options and awards where performance obligations have been met, the notional flexibility in funding by keeping committed credit lines available.
For further details of this, see note 21. gains arising on the future exercise but excludes the charge in respect of these share options and awards recognised in the Group Income Statement.
Year to Year to The carrying value of all financial liabilities due in less than one year is equal to their contractual undiscounted cash flows.
31 March 31 March 1 2017 2016 The maturity profile of the contractual undiscounted cash flows of the Groups non-current financial liabilities, excluding m m derivatives used for hedging, is as follows: Wages and salaries 408.3 374.0 2 Termination benefits 10.5 2.5 As at As at Social security costs 48.8 37.7 31 March 31 March Share-based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 13.1 0.3 2017 2016 Other pension costs 13.7 13.6 m m Total 494.4 427.5 In more than 1 year, but not more than 2 years 13.0 10.0 In more than 2 years, but not more than 3 years 8.7 5.0 1 Employee costs for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-presented to include employee-related costs within cost of sales.
In more than 3 years, but not more than 4 years 9.5 4.8 2 Termination benefits include 9.7m 2016: nil relating to restructuring costs, of which 1.6m 2016: nil relate to related parties.
Refer to note 6 and note 27 for further details.
In more than 4 years, but not more than 5 years 8.2 83.7 In more than 5 years 19.6 16.7 Total financial liabilities 59.0 120.2 The average number of full-time equivalent employees including executive directors during the year was as follows: Number of employees Other non-current financial liabilities relate to other payables, onerous lease provisions and the put option liability over Year to Year to non-controlling interests.
31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Capital risk 1 EMEIA 5,062 5,310 The Board reviews the Groups capital allocation policy annually.
Our capital allocation framework defines our priorities for uses of Americas 1,954 2,005 cash, underpinned by our principle to maintain a strong balance sheet with solid investment grade credit metrics.
The framework Asia Pacific 2,812 2,866 has four priorities: Total 9,828 10,181 1 EMEIA comprises Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
re-investment in the business to drive organic growth: Share options granted to directors and employees maintaining a progressive dividend policy: The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation schemes for its directors and employees.
Details continuing to pursue selective strategic investment: and of each of these schemes are set out in this note.
The share option schemes have been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
to the extent that there is surplus capital to these needs, provide additional returns to shareholders.
At 31 March 2017, the Group had net cash of 809.2m 2016: 660.3m and total equity excluding non-controlling interests of The key inputs used in the Black-Scholes pricing model to determine the fair value include the share price at the commencement 1,692.5m 2016: 1,565.0m.
For further date: the exercise price attached to the option: the vesting period of the award: an appropriate risk-free interest rate: a dividend details refer to note 21. yield discount for those schemes that do not accrue dividends during the course of the vesting period: and an expected share price volatility, which is determined by calculating the historical annualised standard deviation of the market price of Burberry In May 2016, having considered the future cash generation, growth, productivity and investment plans, taking into consideration Group plc shares over a period of time, prior to the grant, equivalent to the vesting period of the option.
the current challenging external environment and relevant financial parameters, the Group decided to commence a share buyback programme of up to 150m.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company entered into an agreement to purchase 100m The Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan the RSP, which has market-based performance conditions attached, of its own shares back as part of the share buy-back programme.
At 31 March 2017 the Company had purchased 97.2m of its has been valued using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with a discount applied to this value, based on information own shares including stamp duty.
For further details refer to note 22. obtained by running a Monte Carlo simulation model on the scheme.
Where applicable, equity swaps have been entered into to cover future employers national insurance liability or overseas equivalent that may arise in respect of these schemes.
162 163 163 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Savings-Related Share Option Scheme In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
On 16 June 2016, further options were granted under this scheme with a three-year and five-year vesting period offered to employees.
The savings contract commencement date for this grant was 1 September 2016.
These options are exercisable for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2019 and 1 September 2021 for the three-year and five-year schemes respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from the London Stock Exchange.
The fair value per option for the three-year and five-year grants is 0.94 and 0.45 respectively.
The fair values have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 3 year grant 5 year grant Share price at contract commencement date 10.69 10.69 Exercise price 8.72 8.72 Life of award 3 years 5 years Dividend yield 3.74% 3.74% Expected volatility 26.3% 33.0% Risk-free interest rate 0.39% 0.62% Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Weighted Weighted average Year to average Year to exercise 31 March exercise 31 March price 2017 price 2016 Outstanding at 1 April 1,262.5p 1,153,641 1,175.0p 1,161,489 Granted during the year 872.0p 803,345 1,364.0p 471,453 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,156.7p 208,727 1,241.4p 172,524 Withdrawn during the year 1,228.7p 382,993 1,229.6p 97,331 Exercised during the year 1,182.6p 136,666 1,038.6p 209,446 Outstanding at 31 March 1,044.4p 1,228,600 1,262.5p 1,153,641 Exercisable at 31 March 1,220.0p 267 998.9p 4,297 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.76 2016: 13.18.
Employee costs continued Savings-Related Share Option Scheme All Employee Share Plan In the financial year ended 31 March 2007, a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave offering Burberry Group plc Employees are offered awards of ordinary shares in the Company at a nil exercise price under an All Employee Share Plan.
ordinary shares was introduced for employees.
All awards vest after three years and the vesting of these share awards is dependent on continued employment over the vesting period.
These options are exercisable On 28 July 2016, 255,850 ordinary shares were granted under this scheme 2016: 223,140.
The fair value of the awards for a period of up to six months from 1 September 2019 and 1 September 2021 for the three-year and five-year schemes granted is 13.20, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining respectively, with vesting dependent on continued employment, as well as a saving obligation over the vesting period.
the fair value were as follows: The exercise price for these options is calculated at a 20% discount to market price over the three dealing days preceding Share price at grant date 13.20 the invitation date.
Three day averages are calculated by taking middle market quotations of a Burberry Group plc share from Exercise price nil the London Stock Exchange.
Life of award Equivalent to vesting period Expected volatility 26.6% The fair value per option for the three-year and five-year grants is 0.94 and 0.45 respectively.
The fair values have been Risk-free interest rate 0.12% determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 3 year grant 5 year grant Year to Year to Share price at contract commencement date 10.69 10.69 31 March 31 March Exercise price 8.72 8.72 2017 2016 Life of award 3 years 5 years Outstanding at 1 April 534,220 501,040 Dividend yield 3.74% 3.74% Granted during the year 255,850 223,140 Expected volatility 26.3% 33.0% Lapsed and forfeited during the year 124,675 96,810 Risk-free interest rate 0.39% 0.62% Exercised during the year 109,817 93,150 Outstanding at 31 March 555,578 534,220 Movements in the number of share options outstanding and their weighted average exercise prices are as follows: Exercisable at 31 March 84,073 81,730 Weighted Weighted The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 13.76 2016: 15.28. average Year to average Year to exercise 31 March exercise 31 March price 2017 price 2016 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: Outstanding at 1 April 1,262.5p 1,153,641 1,175.0p 1,161,489 Granted during the year 872.0p 803,345 1,364.0p 471,453 Number of Number of awards as at awards as at Lapsed and forfeited during the year 1,156.7p 208,727 1,241.4p 172,524 31 March 31 March Withdrawn during the year 1,228.7p 382,993 1,229.6p 97,331 Term of the award 2017 2016 Exercised during the year 1,182.6p 136,666 1,038.6p 209,446 1 12 July 2002 18 July 2082 2,200 2,500 Outstanding at 31 March 1,044.4p 1,228,600 1,262.5p 1,153,641 1 30 August 2003 18 July 2082 2,450 2,650 Exercisable at 31 March 1,220.0p 267 998.9p 4,297 1 20 August 2004 18 July 2082 5,200 5,800 1 1 September 2005 18 July 2082 3,000 3,880 1 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 14.76 2016: 13.18.
The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry Co-Investment Plan and the RSP.
The ESP aims to reward executives and senior management for sustainable long-term performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base salary per annum.
Awards may be subject to a combination of non-market performance conditions, including compound annual Group adjusted PBT growth: compound annual Group revenue growth: and average retail wholesale adjusted return on invested capital ROIC.
Performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period from the last reporting period prior to the grant date.
Each performance condition will stipulate a threshold and maximum target.
The portion of the scheme relating to each performance target will vest 25% if the threshold target is met, and then on a straight-line basis up to 100% if the maximum target is met.
Dependent on the performance of the vesting conditions, 50% of the award will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, and the remaining 50% of the award will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
Awards made to the Senior Leadership Team will be subject to all three non-market performance conditions and will be measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth: 25% based on annual revenue growth: and 25% based on adjusted retail wholesale ROIC.
Awards made to Senior Management in 2015 will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 75% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 25% based on annual revenue growth.
Awards made to Senior Management during the current year will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 50% based on annual revenue growth.
Awards made to Management will not be subject to performance conditions apart from continued service during the vesting period.
During the year, the following grants were made under the ESP: Targets Fair Date of grant Options granted Participant group Performance conditions Threshold Maximum value 30 January 2017 1,324,647 16.26 Senior Leadership Team 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 1% 6% 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 3-year average retail wholesale adjusted ROIC 13.9% 15.2% 30 January 2017 1,044,596 16.26 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 1% 6% 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 30 January 2017 201,670 16.26 Management Continued service N A N A The annual ESP grant usually occurs in July, aligned with the timing of the Group performance review process.
The grant date for the 2016 ESP award was delayed until January 2017 as a result of the on-going productivity and efficiency agenda, to allow appropriate targets to be set and agreed.
For all participants apart from executive directors, it was agreed that the vesting dates will be aligned with the standard performance review timetable, meaning that for those participants, dependent on the performance conditions being met, 50% of the grant will vest on 22 July 2019 and 50% of the grant will vest on 22 July 2020.
For the executive directors, the vesting dates fall on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date.
The fair values for the above grants have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 30 January 2017 Share price at contract commencement date 16.26 Exercise price nil Equivalent to Life of award vesting period Expected volatility 26.5% Risk-free interest rate 0.43% Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.
166 166 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Plan 2014 the ESP continued The ESP was set up in the year ended 31 March 2015, to replace the previous two long-term incentive plans the Burberry Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Co-Investment Plan and the RSP.
The ESP aims to reward executives and senior management for sustainable long-term Year to Year to performance and successful execution of the Groups long-term strategy.
31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Under the ESP, participants are awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of four times base Outstanding at 1 April 3,238,480 salary per annum.
Awards may be subject to a combination of non-market performance conditions, including compound Granted during the year 2,570,913 3,408,928 annual Group adjusted PBT growth: compound annual Group revenue growth: and average retail wholesale adjusted return Lapsed and forfeited during the year 701,016 170,448 on invested capital ROIC.
Performance conditions will be measured over a three-year period from the last reporting period Exercised during the year 4,121 Outstanding at 31 March 5,104,256 3,238,480 prior to the grant date.
The portion of the scheme Exercisable at 31 March relating to each performance target will vest 25% if the threshold target is met, and then on a straight-line basis up to 100% if the maximum target is met.
Dependent on the performance of the vesting conditions, 50% of the award will vest on the third Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: anniversary of the grant date, and the remaining 50% of the award will vest on the fourth anniversary of the grant date.
Number of Number of Awards made to the Senior Leadership Team will be subject to all three non-market performance conditions and will be awards as at awards as at measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth: 25% based on annual revenue growth: and 25% based on adjusted 31 March 31 March Term of the award retail wholesale ROIC.
2017 2016 22 July 2015 21 July 2025 2,497,624 3,100,064 18 November 2015 17 November 2025 102,294 138,416 Awards made to Senior Management in 2015 will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 30 January 2017 30 January 2027 2,504,338 75% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 25% based on annual revenue growth.
Awards made to Senior Management Total 5,104,256 3,238,480 during the current year will be subject to two non-market performance conditions and will be measured 50% based on annual adjusted PBT growth and 50% based on annual revenue growth.
Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP The final grant under the RSP was made on 12 June 2014.
Under the RSP participants were awarded shares, structured as nil-cost options, up to a maximum value of two times base salary per annum.
Certain participants were granted awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions, During the year, the following grants were made under the ESP: while other participants were granted awards subject to non-market performance conditions only.
A limited number of awards were granted without performance conditions.
Targets Fair Date of grant Options granted Participant group Performance conditions Threshold Maximum value The market performance condition is a measure of TSR performance relative to sector peers.
The non-market performance 30 January 2017 1,324,647 16.26 Senior Leadership Team 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 1% 6% condition is compound annual adjusted PBT growth over a three-year period from the date of grant.
3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 3-year average retail wholesale adjusted Awards subject to both market and non-market performance conditions will vest in full if the Group achieves at least upper ROIC 13.9% 15.2% quartile TSR relative to its global peers, and if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
A proportion of the award 30 January 2017 1,044,596 16.26 Senior Management 3-year growth in Group adjusted PBT 1% 6% 12.5% vests if TSR performance exceeds the median of the peer group, or if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is 3-year growth in Group revenue 1% 5.5% 30 January 2017 201,670 16.26 Management Continued service N A N A achieved.
Vesting against each metric occurs on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if TSR performance is below the median of the peer group and if the adjusted PBT growth is below the threshold.
Of the shares which meet the performance criteria, 50% vest after three years.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the The annual ESP grant usually occurs in July, aligned with the timing of the Group performance review process.
The grant date fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
for the 2016 ESP award was delayed until January 2017 as a result of the on-going productivity and efficiency agenda, to allow appropriate targets to be set and agreed.
For all participants apart from executive directors, it was agreed that the vesting Awards subject to non-market performance conditions only will vest in full if the maximum adjusted PBT growth target is dates will be aligned with the standard performance review timetable, meaning that for those participants, dependent on the achieved.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if the threshold adjusted PBT growth target is achieved.
Vesting occurs performance conditions being met, 50% of the grant will vest on 22 July 2019 and 50% of the grant will vest on 22 July 2020. on a straight-line basis between the threshold and maximum.
None of the award vests if the adjusted PBT growth is below For the executive directors, the vesting dates fall on the third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date.
The remaining 50% vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
166 167 167 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three-year vesting period as at 31 March 2017 are: 3 year compound adjusted PBT growth targets Number of awards outstanding as at 31 March Year of grant and participant group 2017 Threshold Maximum 2014 market and non-market conditions 722,141 5% 15% 2014 non-market conditions only 897,545 5% 15% 2014 no performance conditions 200,680 N A N A Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares of the Company.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Outstanding at 1 April 5,190,300 7,913,082 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 2,404,237 1,959,768 Exercised during the year 517,675 763,014 Outstanding at 31 March 2,268,388 5,190,300 Exercisable at 31 March 291,462 401,183 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 13.60 2016: 15.12.
Employee costs continued Burberry Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan 2004 the RSP continued The Burberry Co-Investment Plan The threshold and maximum adjusted PBT growth targets for the RSP awards that are still within the initial three-year vesting The final award granted under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan was made on 12 June 2014. period as at 31 March 2017 are: Under the Burberry Co-Investment Plan, executive directors and certain senior management were able to defer receipt of all 3 year compound adjusted PBT or part of their annual bonus and invest it in ordinary shares in the Company with up to a 2:1 match based on individual and growth targets Group performance during the year.
The matching share awards do not vest for three years and are forfeited if the executive Number leaves within that period.
The exercise price of these share awards is nil.
The awards are also subject to secondary of awards outstanding as performance conditions.
at 31 March Year of grant and participant group 2017 Threshold Maximum Awards granted in 2014 vest in full only if the Group achieves at least 10% per annum adjusted PBT growth over the three- 2014 market and non-market conditions 722,141 5% 15% year vesting period.
A proportion of the award 25% vests if growth in adjusted PBT achieves 5% per annum.
Vesting occurs 2014 non-market conditions only 897,545 5% 15% on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
None of the award vests if adjusted PBT growth is below 2014 no performance conditions 200,680 N A N A 5% per annum.
Obligations under this plan will be met either by market purchase shares via the ESOP trust or by the issue of ordinary shares Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: of the Company.
Year to Year to Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Year to Year to Outstanding at 1 April 1,560,519 2,777,125 31 March 31 March Lapsed and forfeited during the year 817,971 318,647 2017 2016 Exercised during the year 14,430 897,959 Outstanding at 1 April 5,190,300 7,913,082 Outstanding at 31 March 728,118 1,560,519 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 2,404,237 1,959,768 Exercisable at 31 March 41,213 55,643 Exercised during the year 517,675 763,014 Outstanding at 31 March 2,268,388 5,190,300 The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 12.69 2016: 15.31.
Exercisable at 31 March 291,462 401,183 Share awards outstanding at the end of the year have the following terms: The weighted average share price at the respective exercise dates in the year was 13.60 2016: 15.12.
Employee costs continued June 2013 One-off Grant On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options were granted on the basis that they would vest in three tranches: 20% exercisable on 15 July 2016: 40% exercisable on 15 July 2017: and the remaining 40% exercisable on 15 July 2018, dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Under the current arrangement, the first tranche now becomes exercisable on 15 July 2017 or earlier upon termination of employment.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Outstanding at 1 April 1,000,000 1,000,000 Granted during the year Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 1,000,000 Exercisable at 31 March June 2014 One-off Grant On 12 June 2014, options in respect of 500,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options were granted on the basis that they are due to vest in three stages: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2017: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2018: and the remaining 50% are exercisable on 31 July 2019.
Key strategic performance objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must be met in order for the options to vest.
These performance conditions will be assessed at each of the relevant vesting dates, and each tranche will only vest to the extent that performance targets have been achieved at that date.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 31 July 2020.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Outstanding at 1 April 500,000 500,000 Granted during the year Outstanding at 31 March 500,000 500,000 Exercisable at 31 March November 2015 One-off Grant On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 73,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
The options vest in three stages: 25,000 options on 1 July 2016: 30,000 options on 1 July 2017: and the remaining 18,000 options on 1 July 2018.
The vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 18 November 2025.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Outstanding at 1 April 73,000 Granted during the year 73,000 Exercised during the year 25,000 Outstanding at 31 March 48,000 73,000 Exercisable at 31 March The share price on the date of exercise was 14.71.
170 170 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued June 2013 One-off Grant November 2015 Exceptional Grant On 14 June 2013, options in respect of 1,000,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 570,151 ordinary shares were granted as an exceptional one-off grant, with a nil exercise price.
On 30 January 2017, additional options in respect of 86,338 ordinary shares were granted under the same The options were granted on the basis that they would vest in three tranches: 20% exercisable on 15 July 2016: 40% exercisable terms as the original November 2015 grant.
on 15 July 2017: and the remaining 40% exercisable on 15 July 2018, dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Under the current arrangement, the first tranche now becomes exercisable on 15 July 2017 or earlier upon termination The options are due to vest in two stages: 50% exercisable on 15 December 2017: and the remaining 50% exercisable of employment.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 15 July 2019. on 15 December 2018.
The vesting of these options will be dependent upon continued employment as well as continued satisfactory performance.
Any unvested options will automatically lapse on 18 November 2025.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: The fair value of additional options granted on 30 January 2017 is 16.26, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option Year to Year to pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 30 January 2017 Outstanding at 1 April 1,000,000 1,000,000 Share price at contract commencement date 16.26 Granted during the year Exercise price nil Outstanding at 31 March 1,000,000 1,000,000 Equivalent to Exercisable at 31 March Life of award vesting period Expected volatility 30.6% June 2014 One-off Grant Risk-free interest rate 0.2% On 12 June 2014, options in respect of 500,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: The options were granted on the basis that they are due to vest in three stages: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2017: 25% are exercisable on 31 July 2018: and the remaining 50% are exercisable on 31 July 2019.
Key strategic performance Year to Year to 31 March 31 March objectives linked to the long-term growth of the Group must be met in order for the options to vest.
These performance 2017 2016 conditions will be assessed at each of the relevant vesting dates, and each tranche will only vest to the extent that performance Outstanding at 1 April 570,151 targets have been achieved at that date.
Granted during the year 86,338 570,151 Lapsed and forfeited during the year 112,558 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Outstanding at 31 March 543,931 570,151 Exercisable at 31 March Year to Year to 31 March 31 March January 2017 Exceptional Grant 2017 2016 On 30 January 2017, options in respect of 284,096 ordinary shares were granted as an exceptional one-off grant, with a nil Outstanding at 1 April 500,000 500,000 Granted during the year exercise price.
The options are due to vest on 22 July 2018.
Vesting of these options is dependent upon continued employment Outstanding at 31 March 500,000 500,000 as well as satisfactory performance over the vesting period.
Any vested unexercised options will automatically lapse on Exercisable at 31 March 22 December 2026.
November 2015 One-off Grant The fair value of the award is 16.26, determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used On 18 November 2015, options in respect of 73,000 ordinary shares were granted as a one-off award, with a nil exercise price.
in determining the fair value were as follows: 30 January 2017 The options vest in three stages: 25,000 options on 1 July 2016: 30,000 options on 1 July 2017: and the remaining 18,000 Share price at contract commencement date 16.26 options on 1 July 2018.
Exercise price nil Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 18 November 2025.
Equivalent to Life of award vesting period Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Expected volatility 32.8% Risk-free interest rate 0.1% Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Outstanding at 1 April 73,000 Granted during the year 73,000 Year to 31 March Exercised during the year 25,000 2017 Outstanding at 31 March 48,000 73,000 Outstanding at 1 April Exercisable at 31 March Granted during the year 284,096 Outstanding at 31 March 284,096 The share price on the date of exercise was 14.71.
Exercisable at 31 March 170 171 171 Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Employee costs continued January 2017 One-off Awards On 30 January 2017, options in respect of 240,000 ordinary shares were granted as two one-off awards, both with a nil exercise price.
The first award was for options in respect of 215,000 ordinary shares, and the second award was for options in respect of 25,000 ordinary shares.
Both awards are due to vest in three stages.
The first award will vest in the following manner: 86,000 options exercisable on 22 July 2017: 64,500 options exercisable on 22 July 2018: and 64,500 options exercisable on 22 July 2019.
The second award will vest in the following manner: 8,250 options exercisable on 27 March 2018: 8,250 options exercisable on 27 March 2019: and 8,500 options exercisable on 27 March 2020.
The vesting of both of these awards is dependent upon continued employment over the vesting period.
Any vested but unexercised options will automatically lapse on 30 January 2027.
The fair value of the first award is 16.26 and the fair value of the second award is 16.26.
The fair values for both awards have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair value were as follows: First award Second award Share price at contract commencement date 16.26 16.26 Exercise price nil nil Equivalent to Equivalent to Life of award vesting period vesting period Expected volatility 28.2% 26.9% Risk-free interest rate 0.3% 0.4% Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Year to 31 March 2017 Outstanding at 1 April Granted during the year 240,000 Outstanding at 31 March 240,000 Exercisable at 31 March 27.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Salaries, short-term benefits and social security costs 14.3 9.1 Termination benefits 1.6 Post-employment benefits 0.1 Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 5.5 0.5 Total 21.4 9.7 There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
172 172 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 26.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments January 2017 One-off Awards In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of related undertakings as at 31 March 2017, including On 30 January 2017, options in respect of 240,000 ordinary shares were granted as two one-off awards, both with a nil exercise their country of incorporation and percentage share ownership, is disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, all undertakings price.
The first award was for options in respect of 215,000 ordinary shares, and the second award was for options in respect are indirectly owned by Burberry Group plc and operate in the country of incorporation.
All the subsidiary undertakings have of 25,000 ordinary shares.
been consolidated as at 31 March 2017.
In addition to the subsidiary undertakings listed below, the Group also holds an interest in 21.5% of the ordinary shares of Suitspain SL 36, which is incorporated in Spain and is currently in the process of liquidation.
The first award will vest in the following manner: 86,000 options exercisable on Country of Holding 22 July 2017: 64,500 options exercisable on 22 July 2018: and 64,500 options exercisable on 22 July 2019.
The second award Company name incorporation Interest % will vest in the following manner: 8,250 options exercisable on 27 March 2018: 8,250 options exercisable on 27 March 2019: Burberry Pacific Pty Ltd 1 Australia Ordinary shares 100 and 8,500 options exercisable on 27 March 2020.
The vesting of both of these awards is dependent upon continued Burberry Austria GmbH 2 Austria Ordinary shares 100 employment over the vesting period.
2 Sandringham Bahrain SPC 3 Bahrain Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Antwerp N. V. 4 Belgium Ordinary shares 100 The fair value of the first award is 16.26 and the fair value of the second award is 16.26.
The fair values for both awards Burberry Brasil Comrcio fide Artigos fide Vesturio e Acessrios Ltda 5 Brazil Ordinary shares 100 have been determined by applying the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
The key factors used in determining the fair Burberry Canada Inc 6 Canada Common stock 100 value were as follows: Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd 7 China Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Czech Rep s. r. o.
8 Czech Republic Ordinary shares 100 First award Second award Burberry France SASU 9 France Ordinary shares 100 Share price at contract commencement date 16.26 16.26 Burberry Deutschland GmbH 10 Germany Ordinary shares 100 Exercise price nil nil Burberry Asia Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Equivalent to Equivalent to Burberry Asia Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Life of award vesting period vesting period Burberry China Holdings Limited 11 Hong Kong Ordinary shares 100 Expected volatility 28.2% 26.9% Burberry Hungary kft 12 Hungary Ordinary shares 100 Risk-free interest rate 0.3% 0.4% Burberry India Private Limited 13 India Ordinary shares 51 Burberry Ireland Investments 14 Ireland Ordinary A shares 100 Movements in the number of share awards outstanding are as follows: Ordinary B shares 100 Burberry Ireland Limited 14 Ireland Ordinary shares 100 Year to Burberry Italy Rome SRL 15 Italy Ordinary shares 100 31 March 1 Burberry Italy SRL 15 Italy Ordinary shares 100 2017 Burberry Japan K. K. 16 Japan Ordinary shares 100 Outstanding at 1 April Burberry Al Kuwait General Trading Textiles and Kuwait Ordinary shares 49 Granted during the year 240,000 3 Accessories Company WLL 17 Outstanding at 31 March 240,000 Burberry Macau Limited 18 Macau Ordinary quota 100 Exercisable at 31 March Burberry Malaysia Sdn.
19 Malaysia Ordinary shares 100 Horseferry Mexico S. A. fide C. V. 20 Mexico Ordinary fixed shares 100 Ordinary variable shares 100 27.
Related party transactions Horseferry Mexico Servicios Administrativos, S. A. fide C. V. 20 Mexico Ordinary shares 100 Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on Burberry Netherlands BV 21 Netherlands Ordinary shares 100 consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Total compensation in respect of key management, who are defined as the 3 Burberry Qatar W. L. L 22 Qatar Ordinary shares 49 Board of Directors and certain members of senior management, is considered to be a related party transaction.
Burberry Korea Limited 23 Republic of Korea Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Retail LLC 24 Russian Federation Participatory share 100 The total compensation in respect of key management for the year was as follows: Burberry Saudi Company Limited 25 Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ordinary shares 75 Burberry Singapore Distribution Co. PTE Ltd 26 Singapore Ordinary shares 100 Year to Year to Burberry Spain Retail SL 27 Spain Ordinary shares 100 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Burberry Latin America Holdings, S. L. 27 Spain Ordinary shares 100 1 m m Burberry Suisse SA 28 Switzerland Ordinary shares 100 Salaries, short-term benefits and social security costs 14.3 9.1 Burberry Taiwan Co Ltd 29 Taiwan Ordinary shares 100 Termination benefits 1.6 Burberry Thailand Limited 30 Thailand Ordinary shares 100 Post-employment benefits 0.1 Burberry FZ-LLC 31 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 100 Share based compensation all awards and options settled in shares 5.5 0.5 3 Burberry Middle East LLC 32 United Arab Emirates Ordinary shares 49 Total 21.4 9.7 Burberry Espana Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry No.
1 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 There were no other material related party transactions in the period.
7 Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Spain Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Beauty Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Distribution Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Europe Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Finance Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry Haymarket Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Burberry International Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 172 173 173 Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Country of Holding Company name incorporation Interest % 4 Burberry Italy Retail Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Latin America Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry London Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry New York Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 Burberry Spain UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Treasury Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 Ordinary B shares 100 1 Burberrys Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Hampstead UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Sweet Street Developments Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Temple Works Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 The Scotch House Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Thomas Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Pension Trustee Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Worldwide Debt Collections Limited 34 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Wholesale Limited 35 United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry Limited 35 United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 Burberry North America, Inc 35 United States Common stock 100 Burberry USA Holdings Inc 35 United States Common stock 100 Burberry Warehousing Corporation 35 United States Common stock 100 Castleford Industries, Ltd 35 United States Series A common stock 100 Castleford Tailors, Ltd 35 United States Common stock 100 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
2 The Group has an indirect holding of 100% of the issued share capital through a nominee.
3 The Group has a 100% share of profits of Burberry Middle East LLC as well as a 100% and 88% share of profits in Burberry Middle East LLCs subsidiaries in Kuwait and Qatar respectively.
The Group has the power to control these companies via the terms of the shareholder agreement for Burberry Middle East LLC.
Ref Registered office address 1 Level 5, 343 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia 2 Kohlmarkt 2, 1010, Wien, Austria 3 Building 1A, Road 365 Isa Al Kabeer Avenue, Manama Center 316, Unit 7, Moda Mall, Manama, Bahrain 4 2000 Antwerp, Schuttershofstraat 29, Belgium 5 Rua Do Rcio, 350 3 Andar, Vila Olimpia, So Paulo SP, CEP 04552-000, Brazil 6 1 First Canadian Place, 100 King Street West, Suite 1600, Toronto ON M5X 1G5, Canada 7 33 F, Wheelock Square, 1717 Nanjing West Road, Jing'an District, Shanghai, China, 200040, China 8 Praha 1, Pask 11 67, 110 00, Czech Republic 9 56 rue du Faubourg Saint Honore, 75008, Paris, France 10 Konigsalle 50, D 40212, Dusseldorf, Germany 11 Suites 2201-02 & 11-14, 22 F Devon House, Taikoo Place, 979 Kings Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong 12 Horvath & Partners DLA Piper, MOMentum Office Complex, 49-51 Csorsz Street, Budapest, H-1124, Hungary 13 3-A-1 Taj Apartments, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, 110022, India 14 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Office Park, Clonee, County Meath, Ireland 15 Via Montenapoleone 12, 20121, Milan, Italy 16 Ginza YOMIKO Building, 1-8-14 Ginza, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, 104-0061, Japan 17 Hawali, Block 4, Building, 26007, PO Box 99, Code 13001, Safat, Kuwait 18 Avenida Dr. Sun Yat Sen, s n, Building One Central, 1st Floor, Shops 125-127, Macau Special Adminstrative Region, Macau 19 Suite 01-02B 1st Floor, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, 55100.
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 20 Ejercito Nacional Mexicano 843b, Granada, Miguel Hidalgo, Distrito Federal 11520, Mexico 21 Pieter Cornelisz.
Hoofstraat 48-50, 1071BZ, Amsterdam, Netherlands 174 174 Notes to the Financial Statements Notes to the Financial Statements 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued 28.
Subsidiary undertakings and investments continued Country of Holding Ref Registered office address Company name incorporation Interest % 22 PO Box 783, Doha, Qatar 4 Burberry Italy Retail Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 23 Cheongdam-dong 459, Dosan-daero, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Burberry Latin America Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 24 Ulitsa Petrovka, 7, 107031, Moscow, Russian Federation Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 25 The Plaza Olaya Street, PO Box 2392, Riyadh, 12244, Saudi Arabia Burberry London Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 26 50 Scotts Road #04-03, 228242, Singapore Burberry New York 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 27 Calle Valencia 640, 08026 Barcelona, Spain Burberry New York Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 28 c o L&S Trust Services SA, 30 Route fide Chne, 1208, Genve, Switzerland Ordinary B shares 100 29 5 Floor, No 447, Chang Chun Road, Taipei, 105, Taiwan, Province of China Burberry Spain UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 30 989 Siam Piwat Tower Building, 12A floor, Unit B1, B2 Ramai Road, Kwang Pathumwan, Khet Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand Burberry Treasury Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 31 Dubai Design District, Building 08, 3rd Floor, PO Box 333266, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Burberry Wholesale 2005 Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 32 Unit 312 and 313, Third Floor, Building 08, Dubai Design District, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Burberry Wholesale Unlimited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary A shares 100 33 Horseferry House, Horseferry Road, London, SW1P 2AW, United Kingdom Ordinary B shares 100 34 Adelaide House, London Bridge, London, EC4R 9HA, United Kingdom 1 Burberrys Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 35 444 Madison Avenue, New York NY 10022, United States 1 Hampstead UK Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 36 Travessera fide gracia 11-p. 5 08021, Barcelona, Spain Sweet Street Developments Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Temple Works Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 29.
Transactions with non-controlling interests 1 The Scotch House Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group entered into two transactions with non-controlling interests.
The impact 1 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Thomas Burberry Holdings Limited of these transactions has been presented in the financial statements of the Group in the following manner: 1 Thomas Burberry Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 1 Woodrow-Universal Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 Burberry Middle East Burberry Shanghai 1 Woodrow-Universal Pension Trustee Limited 33 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 transaction transaction Total Worldwide Debt Collections Limited 34 United Kingdom Ordinary shares 100 m m m Burberry Wholesale Limited 35 United States Class X common stock 100 Charge taken through statement of changes in equity 44.6 53.7 98.3 Class Y common stock 100 Cash outflow recognised in statement of cash flows 15.1 53.7 68.8 Burberry Limited 35 United States Class X common stock 100 Class Y common stock 100 A liability in relation to the remaining deferred consideration to be paid on the Burberry Middle East transaction has also Burberry North America, Inc 35 United States Common stock 100 been recognised.
Refer to note 19 for further details on the carrying value of the liability at 31 March 2017.
Burberry USA Holdings Inc 35 United States Common stock 100 Burberry Warehousing Corporation 35 United States Common stock 100 Burberry Middle East LLC Castleford Industries, Ltd 35 United States Series A common stock 100 On 22 April 2016 the Group entered into an agreement to transfer the economic right to the non-controlling interest in Castleford Tailors, Ltd 35 United States Common stock 100 Burberry Middle East LLC to the Group in consideration for payments to be made to the minority shareholder relating 1 Held directly by Burberry Group plc.
to an agreed percentage of the future revenue of Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries, Burberry Al Kuwait General 2 The Group has an indirect holding of 100% of the issued share capital through a nominee.
Trading Textiles and Accessories Company WLL and Burberry Qatar WLL, over the period 2016 to 2023, together with fixed 3 The Group has a 100% share of profits of Burberry Middle East LLC as well as a 100% and 88% share of profits in Burberry Middle East LLCs subsidiaries in Kuwait and Qatar respectively.
payments of AED 120.0m 22.6m, relating to profits of Burberry Middle East LLC up to 31 March 2016, to be paid over the 4 Operates principally in Italy.
Ref Registered office address In the judgement of management, the fixed payments of AED 120.0m are most appropriately treated as part of the 1 Level 5, 343 George Street, Sydney NSW 2000, Australia consideration for purchasing the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC.
Therefore the transaction has been 2 Kohlmarkt 2, 1010, Wien, Austria accounted for as a purchase of the non-controlling interest in Burberry Middle East LLC and its subsidiaries by the Group, 3 Building 1A, Road 365 Isa Al Kabeer Avenue, Manama Center 316, Unit 7, Moda Mall, Manama, Bahrain for fixed and contingent deferred consideration, with the exception of a 12% interest in Burberry Qatar WLL which will 4 2000 Antwerp, Schuttershofstraat 29, Belgium 5 Rua Do Rcio, 350 3 Andar, Vila Olimpia, So Paulo SP, CEP 04552-000, Brazil continue to be held by another minority shareholder.
6 1 First Canadian Place, 100 King Street West, Suite 1600, Toronto ON M5X 1G5, Canada 7 33 F, Wheelock Square, 1717 Nanjing West Road, Jing'an District, Shanghai, China, 200040, China The present value of the fixed and contingent deferred consideration in total, at the date of the transaction, was estimated 8 Praha 1, Pask 11 67, 110 00, Czech Republic to be AED 236.0m 44.6m.
Non-controlling interests with a book value of 25.5m were transferred to retained earnings.
9 56 rue du Faubourg Saint Honore, 75008, Paris, France Deferred consideration of AED 80.7m 15.1m was subsequently settled in the period.
10 Konigsalle 50, D 40212, Dusseldorf, Germany 11 Suites 2201-02 & 11-14, 22 F Devon House, Taikoo Place, 979 Kings Road, Quarry Bay, Hong Kong Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd 12 Horvath & Partners DLA Piper, MOMentum Office Complex, 49-51 Csorsz Street, Budapest, H-1124, Hungary On 1 August 2016, the Group acquired the remaining 15% economic interest in its business in China, which was held by 13 3-A-1 Taj Apartments, Rao Tula Ram Marg, New Delhi, 110022, India Sparkle Roll Holdings Ltd, a non-Group company, for consideration of CNY 470.9m 53.7m, through the exercise of a 14 Suite 9, Bunkilla Plaza, Bracetown Office Park, Clonee, County Meath, Ireland call option held by the Group.
The transaction has been accounted for as a purchase of the 15% non-controlling interest 15 Via Montenapoleone 12, 20121, Milan, Italy 16 Ginza YOMIKO Building, 1-8-14 Ginza, Chuo-Ku, Tokyo, 104-0061, Japan in Burberry Shanghai Trading Co. Ltd, for consideration of 53.7m.
Non-controlling interests with a book value of 27.7m 17 Hawali, Block 4, Building, 26007, PO Box 99, Code 13001, Safat, Kuwait were transferred to retained earnings.
18 Avenida Dr. Sun Yat Sen, s n, Building One Central, 1st Floor, Shops 125-127, Macau Special Adminstrative Region, Macau 19 Suite 01-02B 1st Floor, Menara Keck Seng, 203 Jalan Bukit Bintang, 55100.
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia The Group had also granted a put option over the same 15% economic interest to Sparkle Retail Holdings Ltd which was 20 Ejercito Nacional Mexicano 843b, Granada, Miguel Hidalgo, Distrito Federal 11520, Mexico exercisable after 1 September 2020.
The net present value of the expected put option payment was held as a non-current 21 Pieter Cornelisz.
Hoofstraat 48-50, 1071BZ, Amsterdam, Netherlands financial liability.
Upon exercise of the call option by the Group, the put option expired and as a result, the value of the liability at the date of exercise, being 51.0m, was transferred directly to retained earnings.
174 175 175 Notes to the Financial Statements 30.
Contingent liabilities In a number of jurisdictions the Group is subject to claims against it and to tax audits.
These typically relate to Value Added Taxes, sales taxes, customs duties, corporate taxes, transfer pricing, payroll taxes, various contractual claims and other matters.
During the year, the Group reached a resolution of its dispute with the Spanish tax authorities regarding the tax treatment of interest paid during the year ended 31 March 2005.
Where appropriate, the estimated cost of known obligations have been provided in these financial statements in accordance with the Groups accounting policies but these matters are inherently difficult to quantify.
While changes to the amounts that may be payable could be material to the results or cash flows of the Group in the period in which they are recognised, the Group does not currently expect the outcome of these contingent liabilities to have a material effect on the Groups financial condition.
Events after the balance sheet date On 3 April 2017 Burberry entered into an agreement with Coty Geneva SARL Versoix Coty to grant Coty a licence for its fragrance and beauty products and to transfer Burberrys Beauty operations to Coty.
Under this agreement, Coty will make an upfront payment to Burberry of 130m for the licence and related transfer of the Beauty operations.
Coty will also pay Burberry for assets transferring, principally inventory, estimated to be approximately 50m subject to any completion adjustments.
Burberry will receive further payments, relating to royalties, over the term of the licence.
Burberry will receive the above sums on completion of the transaction.
Associated costs will be incurred, currently estimated to be 30m.
Some of the costs arising in relation to the transaction have been incurred and recognised in the current period refer to note 6.
