Glossary Admin cost ratio: Is the Groups share of net administrative of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an expenses including its share of JV administrative expenses armslength transaction after proper marketing, wherein the divided by the Groups share of property income including its parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without share of JV property income.
compulsion as determined by the Groups external valuers.
Inaccordance with usual practice, the Groups external valuers Assets under Management AUM : Is a measure of the total report valuations net, after the deduction of the prospective market value of all properties managed by the Group.
purchasers costs, including stamp duty land tax, agent and Balance sheet gearing: Is the balance sheet net debt divided legal fees.
Footfall: Is the annualised number of visitors entering our Book value: Is the amount at which assets and liabilities are shopping centre assets.
reported in the financial statements.
Funds From Operations: Is a measure of cash profits which BREEAM: Building Research Establishment Environmental includes realised recurring cash profits, realised cash profits Assessment Method assesses the sustainability of buildings or losses on the sale of properties and excludes other one off against a range of social and environmental criteria.
Capital return: Is calculated as the change in capital value less Group: Is NewRiver REIT plc, the Company and its any capital expenditure expressed as a percentage of capital subsidiariesand its share of joint ventures accounted employed over the period.
Capped rents: Are rents subject to a maximum level of uplift Head lease: Is a lease under which the Group holds an at the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
Collared rents: Are rents subject to a minimum level of uplift IAS IFRS: Is the International Financial Reporting Standards at the specified rent reviews as agreed at the time of letting.
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and Dividend cover: Funds From Operations per share divided by adopted by the EU.
dividend per share declared in the period.
Income return: Is the income derived from a property EPRA: Is the European Public Real Estate Association.
as a percentage of the property value.
EPRA earnings: Is the IFRS profit after taxation excluding Interest cover: Is the number of times net interest payable investment property revaluations and gains losses is covered by underlying profit before net interest payable on disposals.
EPRA net assets EPRA NAV : Are the balance sheet net Interest-rate swap: Is a financial instrument where two assets excluding the mark to market on effective cash flow parties agree to exchange an interest rate obligation hedges and related debt adjustments, deferred taxation for a predetermined amount of time.
These are used by the on revaluations and diluting for the effect of those shares Group to convert floatingrate debt obligation or investments potentially issuable under employee share schemes.
EPRA NAV per share: Is EPRA NAV divided by the diluted MSCI Real Estate: MSCI Real Estate formerly Investment number of shares at the period end.
Property Databank Ltd or IPD produces independent Equivalent yield: Is the net weighted average income return benchmarks of property returns and NewRiver a property will produce based upon the timing of the income portfolio returns.
In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent Joint venture: Is an entity in which the Group holds an interest yields as determined by the external valuers assume rent on a longterm basis and is jointly controlled by the Group received annually in arrears and on values before deducting and one or more ventures under a contractual arrangement prospective purchasers costs.
whereby decisions on financial and operating policies ERV growth: Is the change in ERV over a period on our essential to the operation, performance and financial position investment portfolio expressed as a percentage of the ERV of the venture require each joint venture partners consent.
at the start of the period.
ERV growth is calculated monthly Leasing Events: Longterm and temporary new lettings, lease and compounded for the period subject to measurement, renewals and lease variations within investment and joint as calculated by MSCI Real Estate formerly named IPD.
Estimated rental value ERV : Is the external valuers opinion LIBOR: Is the London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate as to the open market rent which, on the date of valuation, charged by one bank to another for lending money.
could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting Like-for-like ERV growth: Is the change in ERV over or rent review of a property.
a period on the standing investment properties expressed Exceptional item: Is an item of income or expense that is as a percentage of the ERV at the start of the period.
deemed to be sufficiently material, either by its size or nature, Like-for-like footfall growth: Is the movement in footfall to require separate disclosure and is one off in nature.
against the same period in the prior year, on properties Fair value in relation to property assets: Is the estimated owned throughout both comparable periods, aggregated amount for which a property should exchange on the date at 100% share.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Like-for-like net rental income: Is the change in net rental Real Estate Investment Trust REIT : Is a listed property income on properties owned throughout the current and company which qualifies for and has elected into a tax regime, previous periods under review.
This growth rate includes which exempts qualifying UK property rental income and gains revenue recognition and lease accounting adjustments but on investment property disposals from corporation tax.
excludes properties held for development in either period, Rental value growth: Is the increase in the current rental value, properties with guaranteed rent reviews, asset management as determined by the Companys valuers, over the 12month determinations and surrender premiums.
Loan to Value LTV : Is the ratio of gross debt less cash, Reversion: Is the increase in rent estimated by the external shortterm deposits and liquid investments to the aggregate valuers, where the passing rent is below the estimated rental value of properties and investments.
LTV is expressed on value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, letting of a proportionally consolidated basis.
vacant space and expiry of rentfree periods.
Mark to market: Is the difference between the book value Reversionary yield: Is the anticipated yield, which the ofan asset or liability and its market value.
initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated Net asset value NAV per share: Is the equity attributable rental value.
to owners of the Group divided by the number of Ordinary Tenant or lease incentives: Are any incentives offered to Shares in issue at the period end.
occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically the incentive will Net equivalent yield: Is the weighted average income be an initial rentfree period, or a cash contribution to fitout return after adding notional purchasers costs a property or similar costs.
Under accounting rules the value of lease will produce based upon the timing of the income received.
incentives given to tenants is amortised through the Income In accordance with usual practice, the equivalent yields Statement on a straightline basis to the lease expiry.
as determined by the external valuers assume rent is Total Accounting Return TAR : Is the increase or decrease received annually in arrears.
in EPRA NAV per share plus dividends paid, and this can be expressed as a percentage of EPRA NAV per share at the Net initial yield: Is the current annualised rent, net of costs, beginning of the period.
expressed as a percentage of capital value, after adding notional purchasers costs.
Total Property Return TPR : Is calculated as the change Net rental income: Is the rental income receivable in the in capital value, less any capital expenditure incurred, plus net period after payment of ground rents and net property income, expressed as a percentage of capital employed over outgoings.
Net rental income will differ from annualised the period, as calculated by MSCI Real Estate formerly IPD.
net rents and passing rent due to the effects of income Total property returns are calculated monthly and indexed to from rent reviews, net property outgoings and accounting provide a return over the relevant period.
adjustments for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews Total Shareholder Return TSR : Is calculated by the growth and lease incentives.
in capital from purchasing a share in the Company assuming NRR share: Represents the Groups ownership on a that the dividends are reinvested each time they are paid.
Voids: Are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent Occupancy rate: Is the estimated rental value of let units all unlet space, including voids where refurbishment work is expressed as a percentage of the total estimated rental value being carried out and voids in respect of predevelopment of the portfolio, excluding development properties.
Temporary lettings of up to 12 months are also treated as voids.
Passing rent: Is the gross rent, less any ground rent payable under head leases.
Weighted average debt maturity: Is measured in years when each tranche of Group debt is multiplied by the remaining Pre-let: A lease signed with an occupier prior to the completion period to its maturity and the result is divided by total Group of a development.
debt in issue at the period end.
Property Income Distribution PID : As a REIT the Group is Weighted average interest rate: Is the Group loan interest and obliged to distribute 90% of the tax exempt profits.
These derivative costs pa at the period end, divided by total Group dividends, which are referred to as PIDs, are subject to debt in issue at the period end.
withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax.
Certain classes Weighted average lease expiry WALE : Is the average lease of shareholders may qualify to receive the dividend gross.
See term remaining to first break, or expiry, across the portfolio our website www.
The Group can also weighted by rental income.
This is also disclosed assuming make other normal nonPID dividend payments which are all break clauses are exercised at the earliest date, as stated.
Excludes shortterm licences and residential leases.
Yield on cost: Passing rents expressed as a percentage of thetotal development cost of a property.
Yield shift: Is a movement usually expressed in basis points in the equivalent yield of a property asset.
152 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Company information Directors Auditor Paul Roy Deloitte LLP Non-Executive Chairman Regency Court Glategny Esplanade David Lockhart St. Peter Port Chief Executive Guernsey GY1 3HW Mark Davies Chief Financial Officer Legal advisers Allan Lockhart Eversheds Sutherland International LLP Property Director One Wood Street London EC2V 7WS Kay Chaldecott Non-Executive Director DWF LLP 5 St Pauls Square Alastair Miller Old Hall Street Non-Executive Director Liverpool L3 9AE Tax advisers Company Secretary Matthew Jones BDO LLP 55 Baker Street London W1U 7EU Registered office 37 Maddox Street London Registrar W1S 2PP Capita Asset Services Company Number The Registry 10221027 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent Brokers BR3 4TU Liberum Capital Limited Ropemaker Place, Level 12 25 Ropemaker Street London EC2Y 9LY Peel Hunt LLP Moore House 120 London Wall London EC27 5ET Financial adviser Kinmont 5 Clifford Street London W1S 2LG Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com FSC Forest Stewardship Council.
This guarantees that the paper comes from well managed forests and other controlled sources through to the finished document in the printing factory.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 www.
co. uk NewRiver REIT plc 37 Maddox Street London W1S 2PP 44 0 20 3328 5800
