THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Lines of business Openreach As the people responsible for building and maintaining much of the countrys digital infrastructure, we have continued to provide the foundation for Britains booming digital economy against a backdrop of profound changes to our business.
member of the Equality of Access Board to invest in our broadband network and EAB : and Liz Benison, chief executive, UK working more closely and collaboratively & Europe, Local & Regional Government at with our customers and the wider industry Serco.
will provide the national telecommunications infrastructure necessary to support Our new board will work closely with Clive the future growth of the UK economy, Selley and his executive team, and well be something that will be particularly important responsible for setting the Openreach strategy as we leave the EU.
Well also make sure the business treats all customers Financial investment in our network alone equally and continues to invest in Britains will not deliver the change we need well digital future.
This year well This has been a momentous year for expand our engineering workforce by Openreach Rising to the challenge hiring 1,500 trainees and well train more Over the past 12 months, weve made Were responsible for services that are engineers to complete more tasks in a single big strides in our strategy to deliver better hugely important to people and businesses visit.
That will play a pivotal role in ensuring service, broader coverage and faster speeds throughout the country.
The scale of what we meet our customers expectations.
At the same time, how we we manage is huge overseeing 158m operate and how the market should be kilometres of telecommunications wires Finally, I want to address the issue of regulated have been fiercely debated topics.
and fibre cables and more than 25,000 Deemed Consent.
Ofcoms investigation into customer interactions every day.
Deemed Consent practices showed that The major theme in Ofcoms once-in-ain the past, Openreach made a number of decade Digital Communications Review We recognise the importance and size of mistakes when processing orders for highbecame the extent to which we should the challenge before us.
This simply operate more independently from BT and shouldnt have happened and we apologise in March 2017, a long-term regulatory Were making progress in moving Openreach wholeheartedly to the communications settlement was agreed that will see us forwards and our renewed focus on service providers affected.
During my short become a distinct, legally separate company is starting to deliver improvements for our time in Openreach, Ive seen significant within BT Group.
Communication Provider customers and improvements being made to the way their customers.
Clives team halved the we deliver these connections and we are Fundamental governance changes number of missed appointments Openreach determined to make sure the same mistakes Under this agreement, were gaining is responsible for by the end of the financial arent repeated in future.
more control of our strategy, investments year.
And weve halted a historical rise in faults and plans within a strategic and financial across our network.
Weve also continued to Were committed to fixing the issues of the framework defined by BT.
This means we build our superfast broadband network for past, delivering better service, and investing can make more of our own decisions and homes and businesses, and were increasingly in our network and we recognise that to be be more autonomous, transparent, and upgrading the most remote and hard-tosuccessful in these goals, we need to work in accountable to everyone who has a stake reach areas of the country in partnership with closer partnerships with our customers, the in us.
This will strengthen our ability to both government via the BDUK programme wider industry, regulators and government.
work in partnership with all our customers and with individual communities and By working as a team, we can achieve success and deliver the communications housebuilders.
collectively and build the telecommunications infrastructure that is the foundation of the infrastructure that will power Britains leading UKs vibrant internet economy.
We made our fibre network available to over a digital economy for years to come.
million more premises this year and we wont Central to these changes are a first-class stop there.
Were also continuing with our governance structure and a new board ambitions to scale ultrafast technologies, to with a majority of independent members.
make speeds of over 100Mbps available to up I was delighted to be appointed as the first to 12 million homes and businesses by 2020.
Openreach chair back in November 2016.
Im also pleased to have appointed three In 2016 Ofcom reported that the UK already Mike McTighe independent board members of the highest had the highest fibre broadband availability Chairman calibre: Sir Brendan Barber, former general of all the major European economies and, 11 May 2017 secretary of the Trades Union Congress and thanks to our open wholesale network, current chair of Acas: Edward Astle, a former we have one of the most competitive board member of National Grid and current telecommunications markets anywhere in the world.
Im confident that continuing Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 83 Lines of business continued Openreach continued We build the network that connects Britains homes and businesses to the future.
The board has a majority of independent members and will be Were responsible for providing services over the responsible for setting Openreachs strategy and overseeing its local access network, sometimes referred to as performance.
It will make sure we treat all customers equally while investing in better service, broader coverage and faster broadband the last mile, installing and maintaining the speeds for the UK.
fibre and copper communications networks that Other activity underway includes the development of a new CP connect homes and businesses.
consultation process for major new strategic investments and the redesign of the Openreach brand to remove the reference to Communications Providers CPs access our network on equivalent BTGroup and the associated logo.
terms, which means they have access to the same products, prices and levels of service.
They use our network to deliver services ranging Were also preparing for the implementation of the remainder of from home broadband, television and telephone to high-speed data the DCR agreement, including incorporation of Openreach Limited connections for businesses of all sizes.
and the transfer of employees to it, once the preconditions have been met.
Openreach local access network c26.5m premises can access fibre Exchange FTTC PCP G. fast DP Markets and customers The UK has the highest share of GDP generated by the digital economy of any country in the Business G20, and the highest superfast availability and take-up compared to our major European a peers.
Were playing our part in this success story by building and operating the largest FTTP Splitter DP superfast network in the country.
c97,800 c4.7m c30m At the end of December 2016 there were 25.3m broadband lines in c5,500 exchanges PCPs DPs premises the UK.
80% of these, excluding Hull, use the Openreach network with the rest mainly on Virgin Medias cable network.
Fibre FTTC Fibre-to-the-cabinet Copper PCP Primary connection point Total UK broadband market FTTP  DP Distribution point As at 31 March G. fast G. fast side pod m 26 Delivering a more independent Openreach 25 Were pleased that the proposals to further enhance the organisational structure of our business have been accepted 24 by Ofcom as a pragmatic solution to meeting its DCR concerns.
23 Were fully committed to implementing the requirements of the Commitments and Governance Protocol which includes a focus 22 on compliance, increased transparency and improved customer 21 engagement as quickly as possible.
20 Weve already started to introduce new governance and measures, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 where possible and appropriate, in advance of full implementation of the DCR agreement.
For example, weve made a number of As at December 2016.
governance reforms to make Openreach a more transparent and autonomous business.
In November 2016 we appointed our first Our customers are the CPs who provide communications services to chairman, Mike McTighe, who is leading our newly-formed board.
end customers, and property developers building new properties.
a France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
