PIGIT pp57 68 01 06 2017 10:57 Page 63 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS GLOSSARY OF TERMS Benchmark A market index, which averages the performance of companies in any sector, giving a good indication of any rises or falls in the market.
The benchmark used in these accounts is the FTSE All-Share Index.
Discount Premium The amount by which the mid-market share price of an investment trust is lower discount or higher premium than the net asset value per share.
The discount or premium is normally expressed as a percentage of the net asset value per share.
Gearing The gearing percentage reflects the amount of borrowings that a company has invested.
This figure indicates the extra amount by which shareholders funds would move if a companys investments were to rise or fall.
A positive percentage indicates the extent to which shareholders funds are geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, shows a company is ungeared.
A negative percentage indicates that the company is not fully invested.
There are several methods of calculating gearing and the following has been used in this report: Gross Gearing This reflects the amount of gross borrowings in use by a company and takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and UK government bonds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Leverage Leverage, for the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous with gearing as defined above.
In addition to borrowings, it encompasses anything that increases the Companys exposure, including foreign currency and exposure gained through derivatives.
Leverage expresses the Companys exposure as a ratio of the Companys net asset value.
Two methods of calculating such exposure are set out in the AIFMD, gross and commitment.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the aggregate of all the Companys exposures other than cash balances held in base currency and without any offsetting.
The commitment method takes into account hedging and other netting arrangements designed to limit risk, offsetting them against the underlying exposure.
Market Capitalisation Is calculated by multiplying the stockmarket price of an ordinary share by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
Net Asset Value Also described as Shareholders funds, the net asset value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities.
Liabilities for this purpose include current and long-term liabilities.
The NAV per share is calculated by dividing the NAV by the number of ordinary shares in issue.
For accounting purposes assets are valued at fair usually market value and liabilities are valued at their par repayment value.
An alternative, the NAV debt at market value which is used in this report values long term liabilities at their market, or a comparable equivalent, value.
Ongoing Charges This is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC as follows: the annualised ongoing charges, including those charged to capital but excluding interest, incurred by the Company, expressed as a percentage of the average undiluted net asset value with debt at market value reported in the period.
Total Return The combined effect of any dividends paid, together with the rise or fall in the share price or NAV.
Performance comparisons can then be made between companies with different dividend policies.
Any dividends received by a shareholder are assumed to have been reinvested in either additional shares i. e. share price total return or in the Companys assets i. e. NAV total return.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 63
