Strategic Report Key Strategies OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Focusing on efficiency and investing appropriately.
Operational Excellence is a multi-year programme and Optimise inventory management involves re-engineering Burberrys systems and processes Burberry reviewed its current inventory flow to identify to ensure that they are fit for purpose for the Companys opportunities to streamline steps in the process, and next phase of growth.
to enable an improved omni-channel customer journey with greater product availability to customers.
This will Key areas of focus include the following.
also enable Burberry to satisfy orders more efficiently Process simplification: Streamlining and simplifying core from a virtual single pool of inventory, online delivery business processes to ensure a single, global approach.
information, quicker delivery times and a facilitated returns process for customers.
Procure effectively: Standardising procurement and unlocking savings.
Improve information and technology Burberry continues to develop its technology landscape Optimise inventory management: Increasing product to meet the fast-changing needs of the industry and availability by developing Burberrys omni-channel to enable the Company to continue to drive innovation technology to enable it to satisfy orders more efficiently where it matters most.
Programmes under way include from a single pool of inventory.
Improve information and technology: Upgrading Product Lifecycle Management Functions: A new digital Burberrys technology infrastructure to reflect changes tool to enable teams to better manage products from in the Companys scale and business model and to conception through to development, manufacture and support the implementation of the key strategies.
This tool will enable the more timely Progress during the year development of products, improved compliance and Process simplification enhanced vendor and supplier collaboration.
Burberry undertook a detailed review of its key processes Digital Sales Associate Tool: The development of in finance, HR, IT, procurement and customer services, a new retail staff tool to deliver enhanced customer including benchmarking to peers.
This highlighted a service across the retail network using Customer significant opportunity to simplify key business processes Relationship Management software to improve to increase efficiency and effectiveness, supported by product searches, manage aftersales service and the implementation of new technology solutions.
In May, Burberry announced plans to establish Burberry Global broadband: A network rollout to all stores to Business Services in Leeds.
This will bring together shared enable connectivity and to align the service through services covering finance, HR, commercial procurement, a single global contract.
and elements of IT and customer services.
Savings will be generated from process improvements and lower The Company is preparing for further technology releases facility costs.
in 2017 to future-proof its core platforms.
These changes will enable business continuity, improved security and Procure effectively the provision of a single global platform fit for purpose Burberry is working to transform procurement into for the next phase of Burberrys growth.
The design a simplified and digitally enabled global process from process and the rollout timeline and phasing plans sourcing to settlement, supported by the implementation are prioritised based on business needs.
This should generate significant operational efficiencies and reduction in costs.
Burberry is focusing on improving the effectiveness of its marketing planning and spend, enabled by the use of its in-house customer data analytics and detailed econometric modelling.
