154 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the year-ended 31 March 2017 1 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered material in relation to the Companys financial statements.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Company and its trading subsidiaries have considerable financial resources and a large number of customer contracts across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Company operates as an investment company for the Sophos Group, holding investments in subsidiaries financed by Group companies.
As the Company is an intrinsic part of the Groups structure, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that Group companies will continue to support the Company through trading and cash generated from trading for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 FRS 102 and under the historical cost accounting rules.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
The company is considered to be a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 102 and has applied the exemptions available under FRS 102 in respect of the cash flow statement and key management personnel compensation.
As the consolidated financial statements of the Company include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions available under FRS 102 in respect of disclosures in respect of share-based payments, financial instruments and the requirements of Section 33 Related Party Disclosures paragraph 33.7.
INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less any provision for impairment.
FOREIGN CURRENCIES Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are stated at historical foreign exchange rates.
INTEREST-BEARING LOANS AND BORROWINGS Obligations for loans and borrowings are recognised when the Company becomes party to the related contracts and are measured initially at fair value less directly attributable transactions costs.
After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Gains and losses arising on the repurchase, settlement or otherwise cancellation of liabilities are recognised respectively in finance income and finance expense.
GOING CONCERN BASIS The Company operates as an investment company for the Sophos Group, holding investments in subsidiaries financed by Group companies.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 155 2 PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT The loss after tax dealt with in the books of the Company was $5.6M 2016: $21.4M.
Under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own profit and loss account.
3 INVESTMENTS 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 $M $M Investment in Sophos Holdings Limited 1,035.8 1,035.8 Investment in Sophos Limited 32.6 9.4 Investment in employee benefit trust 0.1 Total 1,068.4 1,045.3 The investment in Sophos Holdings Limited, a holding company for the Sophos Group, comprises 100% of the ordinary share capital.
The investment in Sophos Limited comprises share-based payment expenses for equity awards granted to participants employed by Sophos Limited and its subsidiaries.
4 LOAN DUE FROM SUBSIDIARY As part of the re-financing of the Group on 1 July 2015, The Company lent $93.5M to Sophos Holdings Limited, a 100% owned subsidiary.
The loan carries a variable interest rate based on the Groups Senior Facility A loan plus a margin of 0.1% and is repayable in full at the end of a 60-month term on 1 July 2020 5 SHARE CAPITAL Allotted, called-up and fully-paid shares of 0.03 each 000's $M On incorporation 26 May 2015 Share issuance 414,655 19.5 Initial public offering 35,345 1.7 Issued on exercise of share options 2,172 0.1 At 31 March 2016 452,172 21.3 Issued on exercise of share options and release of RSU's 7,470 0.3 At 31 March 2017 459,642 21.6 6 FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY Sophos Group plc is registered in England and Wales and has a functional currency of US Dollars.
156 GLOSSARY Adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating profit represents the Groups operating profit loss adjusted for amortisation charges, share option charges and exceptional items AES Advanced Encryption Standard Americas North and South America APJ Asia-Pacific & Japan Billings Billings represents the value of products and services invoiced to customers after receiving a purchase order from the customer and delivering products and services to them, or for which there is no right to a refund Blue chip Channel partners who transact five or more deals in a trailing six-month period Board The Board of Directors of Sophos Group plc BYOD Bring Your Own Device CAGR Compound annual growth rate Cash EBITDA Cash EBITDA is defined as the Group's operating profit adjusted for depreciation and amortisation charges, any gains or losses on the sale of tangible and intangible assets, share option charges, unrealised foreign exchange differences and exceptional items with billings replacing revenue Cash EBITDA margin Cash EBITDA margin is calculated as cash EBITDA as a percentage of billings Channel first The distribution model used by the Group, where products are sold to end customers through a network of channel partners and distributors Company Sophos Group plc Constant currency The group uses US Dollar-based constant currency models to measure performance.
These are calculated by applying a single exchange rate to local currency transactions for both the current and prior year.
This gives US Dollar denominated measures that exclude variances attributable to foreign exchange rate movements Directors The Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company DPI Deep Packet Inspection DMR Direct Market Reseller EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortisation EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa FIPS US Federal Information Processing Standards GHG Greenhouse gas Group The group of companies owned by Sophos Group plc HTML5 The fifth revision of the HyperText Markup Language of the internet used for structuring and presenting content for the world wide web IASB International Accounting Standards Board IDP Intrusion Detection and Prevention IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union KPI Key Performance Indicator Like-for-like billings Like-for-like billings represent billings on a constant currency basis excluding disposals and including acquisitions from the point of acquisition plus the pre-acquisition billings of any acquired companies on a reported basis MSP Managed Service Provider OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer RED Remote Ethernet Device Renewal rate Renewal rates are calculated by comparing the actual US Dollar amount of contracts renewed into the following period including instances of cross-sell and upsell to the US Dollar amount of total contracts at the start of the period Secure SSL Secure Sockets Layer, a standard security technology for establishing an encrypted link between a server and a client Unlevered free cash flow Unlevered free cash flow represents cash EBITDA less purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, plus cash flows in relation to changes in working capital and taxation UTM NGFW Unified Threat Management Next-Generation Firewall VAR Value-Added Reseller VPN Virtual Private Network 157 COMPANY INFORMATION DIRECTORS INVESTOR RELATIONS Peter Gyenes investors.
com Nick Bray AUDITOR Sandra Bergeron Edwin Gillis KPMG LLP Salim Nathoo 15 Canada Square Roy Mackenzie London Rick Medlock E14 5GL Steve Munford Vin Murria Paul Walker REGISTERED OFFICE Sophos Group plc The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park Abingdon OX14 3YP Registered number: 09608658 www.
com REGISTRAR SERVICES Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham BR3 4TU PUBLIC RELATIONS Tulchan Communications 85 Fleet Street London EC4Y 1AE
