Accounting policies Year ended 31 March 2017 Basis of preparation Areas of judgment The consolidated and Company financial statements have been The following items are considered by Management to be key prepared on a historical cost basis, modified in respect of the areas of judgment: revaluation to fair value of financial instruments, assets held by i Classification of exceptional items The Group classifies items of defined benefit pension plans and on consolidation the original a material, one-off nature, which result from a restructuring of the interest in an acquiree purchased through a stepped acquisition.
business or some other event or circumstance as exceptional.
These They are presented in sterling and all values are rounded to the are disclosed separately in the consolidated income statement.
nearest 0.1 million million except where otherwise indicated.
Management considers this to be an area of judgment due to the assumption made that the items are material in size and one-off in The consolidated financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc nature.
Further disclosure is provided in Note 4 and Note 7. have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the ii Profit on the disposal of depots The Group recognises profits European Union EU.
The separate Company financial statements from the disposal of closed Dairies depots as Other income have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the property within continuing operations.
Management considers this EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the treatment appropriate on the basis that the closed depots were not Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken advantage of the related to the disposal of the Dairies operation and that all historic exemption provided under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 costs in respect of the closure of these depots have been charged not to publish its individual income statement and related notes.
to the income statement therefore ensuring consistent treatment between gains and losses.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company have adequate iii Non-current assets held for sale The Group has classified resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable some closed properties as non-current assets held for sale.
The financial statements have therefore continued to be Management considers this to be an area of judgement due to the prepared on a going concern basis.
See Going Concern section on assumptions made around the timing of the disposals.
See Note page 62 of the Directors Report.
Areas of estimation iv Contingent liability in respect of Chadwell Heath The Group The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant has disclosed a contingent liability in relation to a potential risk of causing material adjustments to the carrying amounts of dilapidations liability at Chadwell Heath.
Management considers assets and liabilities within the next financial year are i The this to be an area of judgement due to the uncertainty around the calculation of promotional discount accruals, ii the measurement intention of the landlord with respect to the future use of the land of defined benefit pension scheme assets and obligations and iii following the cessation of the lease.
See Note 28. the measurement of impairment of goodwill.
v Contingent liability in respect of potential litigation The Group i The Group accrues for agreed promotional funding.
Accruals has disclosed a contingent liability in respect of potential litigation for promotional funding are calculated based on an estimated in relation to the demineralised whey and  redemption rate of the promotion on expected volumes.
The capital project at Davidstow.
Management considers this to be an redemption rate and volumes used are dependent on the area of judgment because a reliable estimation of the liability, if any, promotional mechanic and considers known historical data on the cannot be made at this stage.
See Note 28. performance of that mechanic.
Management considers this to be an area of estimation, which is dependent on the customer mix vi Recognition of deferred tax asset The Group has recognised a and promotion mechanic.
See Note 22. deferred tax asset in relation to carried forward trading losses on the basis that these losses, which have arisen from various unprofitable ii The Group recognises and discloses its retirement benefit operations within the Group and rationalisation initiatives to promote obligation in accordance with the measurement and presentational the profitability of the Group as a whole, will be available to offset requirement of IAS 19 Retirement Benefit Obligations.
The future taxable profits of the Group.
See Note 6. calculations include a number of judgements and estimations in respect of the expected rate of return on assets, the discount rate, vii Operating segments Management has judged that the Group inflation assumptions, the rate of increase in salaries, and life comprises one segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
Changes in these assumptions can Certain product Group information is provided voluntarily to assist have a significant effect on the value of the retirement benefit the users of the accounts.
See Note 21. iii The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired on an annual basis and this requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill is allocated.
The assessment of value in use is compared to the carrying value of goodwill.
This requires estimation of future cash flows and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
76 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 changes in accounting policies The effect of this on the Groups financial statements will be that The following accounting standards and interpretations became the gross assets and gross liabilities will each increase by an equal effective for the current reporting period: and opposite amount.
There will also be a timing effect on the income statement, as interest on leases will have to be charged in International Accounting Standards IAS IFRSs a similar way to that in which interest is charged on a loan which IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS7 will result in more interest being charged in early periods of each IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses lease and less interest being charged in the later periods.
Amendments to IAS 12 IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities Clarification of Basis of consolidation the scope of the disclosure requirements in IFRS 12 The Group financial statements consolidate the accounts of Dairy Crest Group plc the Company, its subsidiaries and associates The application of these standards has had no material impact on together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements are drawn up to 31 March each year using consistent accounting the net assets, results and disclosures of the Group in the year policies.
Subsidiaries are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by The IASB and IFRIC have issued the following standards and the Group.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which interpretations with an effective date after the date of these the Group obtains control and continue to be consolidated until the financial statements : date control ceases.
All intercompany balances and transactions, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 including unrealised profits and losses arising from intra-group January 2018 transactions, have been eliminated in full.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and a Acquisitions Advance Consideration effective 1 January 2018 Subsidiaries acquired during the year are consolidated from the IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 date on which control is transferred to the Group.
The separable net assets, both tangible and intangible, of the newly acquired The Directors do not anticipate that the adoption of IFRS 9 subsidiary undertakings are incorporated into the financial Financial Instruments, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with statements on the basis of the fair value as at the effective date of Customers and IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign Currency and control, if appropriate.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed in Advance Consideration will have a material impact on the Groups the income statement.
financial statements, however further disclosure around the potential impact of IFRS 15 has been provided.
If a business acquisition is achieved in stages, the acquisition date carrying amount of the Groups previously held interest in the IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will replace IAS acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through 18 Revenue and the Group is in the early stages of evaluating the the consolidated profit and loss account.
The fair value impact of the standard.
measurement is determined using the hierarchy principles of IFRS13 Fair Value Measurement.
Under IFRS 15, revenue will be recognised based on a five step model which requires, for each contract with a customer, the b Discontinued operations transaction price to be matched against the performance Results of subsidiary undertakings disposed of during the financial obligation arising under the contract or in the case of more than year are included in the financial statements up to the effective date one performance obligation, apportioned over those obligations.
Where a business component representing a separate The transaction price will be the amount of consideration the major line of business is disposed of, or classified as held for sale, Group expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring the it is classified as a discontinued operation.
The post-tax profit or goods or service to the customer.
Depending on the particular loss of the discontinued operations is shown as a single amount on contractual arrangements in place, application of the new standard the face of the income statement, separate from the other results could change the amount of revenue recognised on a contract of the Group.
The comparative consolidated income statement, and or its timing.
other comprehensive income and associated notes have been restated as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of Whilst management continues the process of evaluating the impact the comparative year.
against all of the Groups contracts with customers, initial reviews by management indicate the impact of IFRS 15 would not Foreign currency translation materially change the way in which the Group accounts for The functional and presentational currency of Dairy Crest Group revenue.
plc and its subsidiaries is Sterling.
IFRS 16 Leases will apply to annual reporting periods beginning Transactions in foreign currency are initially recorded in the on or after 1 January 2019 and will be applicable to the Group in its functional currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2020.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange IFRS 16 will remove the distinction between Operating Leases and differences on monetary items are generally taken to the income Finance Leases and will require lessees to report operating leases statement.
However, foreign currency differences arising from the on the balance sheet, similar to the treatment of finance leases translation of qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedges under IAS 17.
Lessees will recognise an asset and a liability for are effective are recognised in other comprehensive income.
each lease and will have to recognise an element of each lease payment as an interest charge.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 77 The numbers ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED property, plant and equipment Any goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash-generating unit or Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated groups of cash-generating units expected to benefit from the depreciation and any impairment losses.
Cost comprises the combinations synergies as at the acquisition date.
Impairment is purchase price and any costs directly attributable to bringing the determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the cashasset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable generating unit to which the goodwill relates.
Where the of operating in the manner intended by management.
Depreciation recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the is calculated to write off the cost less residual value of property, carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Where plant and equipment, excluding freehold land, on a straight-line goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit and part of the basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated Freehold buildings: 25 years with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount Leasehold land and buildings: 2 5 years or, if shorter, the of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of period of the lease the operation.
Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation Vehicles, plant and equipment: 4 to 20 years disposed of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
The carrying value of property, plant and equipment is reviewed for intangible assets impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation the carrying value may not be recoverable.
If the carrying value and any recognised impairment losses.
All intangible assets exceeds the estimated recoverable value, the asset is written down recognised by the Group have finite useful economic lives and are to its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and being amortised on a straight line basis.
equipment is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell or value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate are recognised at fair value separately from goodwill if the fair value that reflects current market assessments of the time value of can be measured reliably on initial recognition and the future money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does expected economic benefits flow to the Group.
Acquired intangible not generate largely independent cash flows, the recoverable assets comprise the Frylight brand which was considered to have amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the a useful life of 15 years at the date of acquisition.
Impairment losses are charged to the consolidated income statement.
Intangible assets generated internally comprise software and product development where the future recoverability can An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon reasonably be assured under IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to Development is amortised over a period of up to ten years arise from the continued use of the asset.
Any gain or loss arising dependent on the type of development.
Internally generated on derecognition of the asset is included in the consolidated intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for income statement in the year that it is derecognised.
impairment annually either individually or at the cash-generating unit level or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances Borrowing costs indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes a investments substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are The Company recognises its investments in subsidiaries at cost capitalised as part of the cost of the respective assets.
being the fair value of consideration paid, less provisions for impairment where appropriate.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period they occur.
Research and development Expenditure on research is written off as incurred.
Development goodwill expenditure is also written off as incurred unless the future Goodwill arising on an acquisition is carried at cost at acquisition recoverability of this expenditure can reasonably be assured as date less any accumulated impairment losses.
required by IAS 38 Intangible Assets.
Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured as the cost of the inventories acquisition less the fair value of net identifiable assets acquired and Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
the liabilities assumed in exchange for the business combination.
Cost includes the purchase price of raw materials on a first in first The cost of the acquisition is measured as the consideration out basis, direct labour and a proportion of manufacturing transferred measured at acquisition date fair value, the amount of overheads based on normal operating capacity incurred in bringing any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and in the case of each product to its present location and condition.
Net realisable business combinations achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree.
business less estimated costs of completion and selling costs.
Goodwill is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
78 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Financial Assets and liabilities e Derivative financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are recognised at fair value on initial The Group and Company use derivative financial instruments such recognition.
as forward currency contracts, cross-currency swaps to hedge its risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations.
Such derivative The Group and Company classify financial assets on initial financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value and recognition within the scope of IAS 39 as: subsequently re-measured to fair value at each balance sheet date.
financial assets at fair value through income statement: loans and receivables: For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge held-to-maturity investments: or accounting, any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value available-for-sale financial assets, as appropriate.
are taken directly to the income statement for the year.
The Group and Company classify non-derivative financial liabilities f cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a cash flow into the following categories: hedging instrument at inception of the hedge relationship, the financial liabilities at fair value through profit and loss: or effective portion of the changes in fair value of the derivative is other financial liabilities.
recognised to other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve.
The ineffective portion is recognised in the The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its income statement.
The cumulative amount recognised to other comprehensive A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash income is reclassified into the income statement out of other flows from that asset have expired.
A financial liability is comprehensive income in the same period or periods during which dereognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, the hedged forecast cash flows affects the income statement or cancelled or expires.
the hedged item affects the income statement, for example when the future sale actually occurs, interest payments are made or a trade and other receivables when debt matures.
Trade and other receivables are recognised and carried at original invoice amount less an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
If the forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the An estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection of the full hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the amount is no longer probable.
Trade receivable debts are written hedge instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or off when there is no expectation of recovery.
designated as revoked, the hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively.
If the forecast transaction is no longer to occur, then b cash and cash equivalents the cumulative amounted recognised in other comprehensive Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand income is reclassified to the income statement.
and short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, Fair value measurement cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or defined above, net of bank overdrafts.
paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that c interest bearing loans and borrowings price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation Interest bearing loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the technique.
In estimating the fair value of an asset or liability, the fair value net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
After Group takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are if marker participants would take those characteristics into account subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective when pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any discount or premium on All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or settlement.
Gains and losses are recognised in the Consolidated disclosed in the financial statements are categorised within the fair Income Statement when the liabilities are derecognised.
value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is observable and significant to the fair value d net debt measurement as a whole: The Group and Company define net debt as interest bearing loans Level 1 Quoted unadjusted market prices in active markets for and borrowings and finance leases less cash and cash identical assets or liabilities equivalents.
The calculation of net debt excludes the fair value of Level 2 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that derivative financial instruments with the exception of crossis significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly currency swaps to fix foreign currency debt in Sterling where they observable are designated as cash flow hedges.
In this case the fixed Sterling Level 3 Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that debt, not the underlying foreign currency debt retranslated, is is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable.
It includes any cash or borrowings included within disposal groups classified as held for sale and excludes For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial unamortised upfront facility fees.
statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 79 The numbers ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED provisions Retirement benefit obligations A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount that is The Group operates two types of pension arrangements, a defined recognised when the Group or Company has a present obligation benefit scheme and a defined contribution scheme.
legal or constructive where, as a result of a past event, it is more likely than not that payment will be required to settle the obligation a Defined benefit scheme and the amount can be estimated.
If the effect is material, The net asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect expected future cash flows are discounted using the current of the defined benefit pension scheme is the fair value of scheme pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability.
assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date as adjusted for unrecognised past service Provisions are estimates and the actual costs and timings of future cost.
Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past cash flows are dependent on future events.
Provisions are service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reviewed regularly by management, with any difference between reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Where the Group the amounts previously recognised and current estimate or actual is considered to have a contractual obligation to fund the scheme liability being recognised to the income statement.
above the accounting value of the liabilities, an onerous obligation is recognised as an unrecoverable notional surplus.
The defined leased assets benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries Assets acquired under finance leases, which transfer to the Group using the projected unit credit method.
substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at fair Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full to the minimum lease payments.
The net present value of future lease statement of comprehensive income as they arise.
rentals is included as a liability on the balance sheet.
The interest The Company has closed its defined benefit scheme and therefore element of lease rentals is charged to the income statement in the no current service costs are required to be charged to income year.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and statement.
Past service costs are recognised in the income benefits of ownership of the asset are classified as operating statement at the earlier of the date of the plan amendment or leases.
curtailment, and the date that the Group recognises related restructuring costs.
Assets held under operating leases are not recognised in the Groups balance sheet, with the operating lease rentals being Scheme administration costs that are not directly related to charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the investment activities are charged to the income statement.
Administration costs that are directly related to investment are recognised as part of the re-measurement exercise through the non-current assets held for sale Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Non-current assets held for sale comprise closed properties owned by the Group that meet the definition of held for sale assets The net interest charge is calculated by applying the discount rate under IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
b Defined contribution scheme For a property to be classified as held for sale it must be available These pension arrangements do not constitute a future obligation for immediate resale in its present condition and the sale must be to the Group.
Members of these schemes will contribute a highly probable.
The following criteria must be met for the sale to percentage of their salary into the scheme and the Company will be highly probable: pay an additional amount into the scheme.
The size of an Management must be committed to a plan to sell the asset individuals pension on retirement is based on the performance of An active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan the asset portfolio and is not linked to salary.
Company must be initiated contributions to the scheme are charged to the income statement The asset must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is in the same period as services are rendered by the relevant reasonable employee.
The sale should be expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification: and share-based payments Actions required to complete the plan should indicate that it is a equity-settled performance payments unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or the The Group and Company have issued equity instruments for which plan withdrawn they receive services from employees in consideration for these equity instruments.
All of the awards granted under existing plans Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of are classified as equity-settled awards.
The Group and Company carrying value and fair value less costs to sell.
recognise a compensation expense that is based on the fair value of the awards measured at grant date using an appropriate pricing model.
Fair value is not subsequently remeasured unless relevant conditions attaching to the award are modified.
Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all non-vesting conditions.
Adjustments are made to the compensation expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market performance conditions.
80 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 The compensation expense is generally recognised to the income government and other grants statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and a Government grants are initially recognised at their fair value where corresponding credit is recognised in equity.
there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all attaching conditions will be complied with.
When the grant relates Where an equity-settled award is cancelled it is treated as if it had to an expense item, it is recognised as income over the periods vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised necessary to match the grant on a systematic basis to the costs in the income statement for the award is expensed immediately.
that it is intended to compensate.
Where the grant relates to an asset, the fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is Rights granted to employees of subsidiary undertakings over released to the income statement over the expected useful life of equity instruments of the Company are treated as an investment in the relevant asset in equal annual instalments.
income tax Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax.
It is b employees share ownership plan esop recognised to the income statement except to the extent it relates The shares in the Company held by the Dairy Crest Employees to items recognised directly to equity or other comprehensive Share Ownership Plan Trust to satisfy Long Term Incentive Share income.
Plan awards are presented as a deduction from equity in arriving at shareholders equity.
Consideration received from the sale of such Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount shares is also recognised in equity with no gain or loss recognised expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities, in the consolidated income statement.
based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Revenue Revenue on the sale of food related products is recognised on Deferred income tax is provided on all temporary differences at the delivery.
Revenue comprises the invoiced value for the sale of balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities goods net of Value Added Tax, rebates and discounts and after and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial eliminating sales within the Group.
statements, except as indicated below.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of: Discounts comprise mainly promotional accruals, overriding temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of discounts and customer terms.
Promotional accruals are made in goodwill or the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a respect of customer claims, where a discount is claimed following transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of completion of the promotion based on the redemption rate of that the transaction affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable promotion.
The accruals are calculated based on the expected profit or loss: and in-store redemption rate for the particular promotional mechanic taxable temporary differences associated with investments in e. g buy one get one free or 25% off against the delivered subsidiaries, associates and interests in joint ventures, where the volume.
The redemption rate used considers known historical data timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be on the performance of that mechanic and is adjusted for actual controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not performance.
An overriding discount is a discount given across all reverse in the foreseeable future.
sales of a particular product, providing the sales exceed agreed volumes.
The overriding discounts are calculated as a proportion Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible of the level of customer sales in the period.
A customer term is temporary differences, carry-forward of unused tax assets and where the Group has agreed to pay a customer a sum of money unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable based on that customer delivering an agreed sales and profit will be available against which they can be utilised.
These terms are generally paid for in arrears, carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each following delivery of the plan, and are accrued for over the period balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer to which they relate.
probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.
Dividend income is recognised when the Companys right to receive payment is established.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is other income realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws Other income comprises the profit on disposal of depots as a that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance result of rationalisation.
exceptional items Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset only if a legal Certain items are recorded separately in the income statement as enforcement right exists to set off current tax assets against exceptional.
Only items of a material, one-off nature, which result current tax liabilities, the deferred income taxes relate to the same from a restructuring of the business or some other event or taxation authority and that authority permits the Group to make a circumstance, are disclosed in this manner in order to give a better single net payment.
understanding of the underlying operational performance of the Group.
The profits arising on disposal of closed sites, other than closed Dairies depots retained by the Group following disposal of the Dairies operation, are reported within exceptional items.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 81 The numbers
