Shareholder information receive trading updates by email: Annual General Meeting AGM ShareGift andelectronic voting If shareholders have a small number of shares view their shareholdings: The AGM of the Company will be held at and the dealing costs or the minimum fee update their records, including change 1.30pm on Tuesday 18 July 2017 at the make it uneconomical to sell them, it is ofaddress: Aberdeen Exhibition and Conference Centre, possible to donate these to ShareGift, a Exhibition Avenue, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, view payment and tax information: and registered charity, who provide a free service AB23 8BL.
to enable you to dispose charitably of such vote in advance of company general meetings.
More information on this service can The Notice of AGM Notice and Form To find out more information about the be found at www.
org or by calling ofProxyare enclosed with this Annual services offered by Shareview, please visit 44 0 20 7930 3737.
A ShareGift transfer form Reportand Accounts.
can also be obtained from Equiniti.
alsobefoundon the Companys website Shareholder enquiries www.
FirstGroups policy on discounts for The Companys share register is maintained shareholders Shareholders can submit proxies for the by Equiniti.
Shareholders with queries relating Shareholders are reminded that it is not the 2017AGM electronically by logging on to to their shareholding should contact Equiniti Groups policy to offer travel or other discounts www.
Electronic proxy directly using one of the methods listed below.
FirstGroup is focused on overall appointments must be received by the returns which are of benefit to all shareholders.
Registrar Companys Registrar, Equiniti, no later than Equiniti Limited 1.30pm on Friday 14 July 2017 or not less Unsolicited telephone calls Aspect House than 48 hours, excluding non-business days, andcorrespondence Spencer Road before the time fixed for any adjourned meeting.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of any Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a Website and shareholder Tel: 0371 384 2046 discount, or offers of free reports about the communications or from overseas on Tel: 44 0 121 415 7050 Company.
These are typically from overseas A wide range of information on FirstGroup is Online: help.
co. uk from here, based brokers who target US or UK available at the Companys website including: youwill be able to securely email Equiniti shareholders, offering to sell them what often withyour enquiry.
financial information annual and half-yearly turns out to be worthless or high risk shares.
reports as well as trading updates: These operations are commonly known as Telephone lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
boiler rooms and the brokers can be very share price information current trading persistent and extremely persuasive.
If you receive more than one copy of the details and historical charts: Companys mailings this may indicate that Shareholders are advised to deal only with shareholder information AGM results, more than one account is held in your name financial services firms that are authorised by details of the Companys advisers and on the register.
This happens when the the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
You can frequently asked questions: and registration details of separate transactions check a firm is properly authorised by the FCA news releases current and historical.
If you believe more than one before getting involved by visiting www.
account exists in your name, please contact uk register.
If you do deal with an unauthorised FirstGroup uses its website as its primary Equiniti to request that the accounts are firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment means of communication with its shareholders combined.
There is no charge for this service.
under the Financial Services Compensation provided that the shareholder has agreed or is Scheme if anything goes wrong.
For more deemed to have agreed that communications Equiniti also offer a postal dealing facility for detailed information on how you can protect may be sent or supplied in that manner.
buying and selling FirstGroup plc ordinary yourself from an investment scam, or to report Electronic communications allow shareholders shares: please write to them at the address a scam, go to www.
uk consumers to access information instantly as well as quoted or telephone 0371 384 2248.
They scams report-scam or call 0800 111 6768. helping FirstGroup to reduce its costs and its alsooffer a telephone and internet dealing impact on the environment.
Shareholders service which provides a simple and convenient Half-yearly results thathave consented or are deemed to have way ofdealing in FirstGroup shares.
For The half-yearly results, normally announced to consented to electronic communications telephone dealing call 03456037037 between the market in November, will continue to be canrevoke their consent at any time by 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, available on the Companys website in the contacting Equiniti.
andfor internet dealing log on to form of a press release and not issued to www.
co. uk dealing shareholders in hardcopy.
Shareholders can sign up for electronic communications online by registering with Shareview, the internet based platform provided by Equiniti.
In addition to enabling shareholders to register to receive communications by email, Shareview provides a facility for shareholders to manage their shareholding online by allowing them to: 150 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017
