Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as Accounts, including the Group and the Parent Company financial a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are detailed on the Group financial statements in accordance with International pages 54 and 55 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European their knowledge: Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company law, the Directors must not approve the financial Group.
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view The Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 47 includes a fair of the state of affairs of the Parent Company and the Group and of review of the development and performance of the business and the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Signed on behalf of the Board on 6 June 2017 by: consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Jamie Hopkins State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Chief Executive Officer applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group Graham Clemett and Parent Company financial statements respectively.
Chief Financial Officer Prepare financial statements on the Going Concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys corporate website investors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
120Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
