Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Glossary of terms Adjusted trading profit after interest is net rental income, joint Loan to value is net debt divided by the current value of properties venture trading and finance income, less administrative expenses, less owned by the Group.
finance costs but excluding exceptional finance costs.
Market rental values see ERV.
Adjusted underlying earnings are based on trading profit after interest adjusted to exclude exceptional items.
Net asset value per share NAV is net assets divided by the number of shares at the period end.
BlackRock JV BlackRock Workspace Property Trust, a joint venture property fund with the BlackRock UK Property Fund in which the Net bank debt is the amount drawn on bank and other loan facilities, Group held a 20.1% interest until June 2016. including overdrafts, less cash deposits.
Cash rent roll is the current net rents receivable for occupied units.
Net rents are rents excluding any contracted increases and after deduction of inclusive service charge revenue.
Earnings per share EPS is the profit after taxation divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the period.
Occupancy percentage is the area of space let divided by the total net lettable area excluding land used for open storage.
Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT is the trust created by the Group to hold shares pending exercise of employee share options.
Open market value is an opinion of the best price at which the sale of an interest in the property would complete unconditionally for cash EPRA NAV is a definition of net asset value as set out by the consideration on the date of valuation as determined by the Groups European Public Real Estate Association.
It represents net assets after external valuers.
excluding mark to market adjustments of effective cash flow hedges financial derivatives and deferred tax relating to revaluation Profit loss before tax PBT is income less all expenditure other movements, capital allowances and derivatives.
Equivalent yield is a weighted average of the initial yield and Property Income Distribution PID a dividend generally subject to reversionary yield and represents the return a property will produce withholding tax that a UK REIT is required to pay from its taxbased upon the timing of the occupancy of the property and timing exempted property rental business and which is taxable for UK of the income receivable.
This is approximated by the reversionary resident shareholders at their marginal tax rate.
yield multiplied by the Group trend occupancy of 90%.
REIT is a Real Estate Investment Trust as set out in the UK Finance Estimated Rental Value ERV or market rental value is the Groups Act 2006 Sections 106 and 107.
REITs pay no corporation tax on external valuers opinion as to the open market rent which, on the profits derived from their property rental business.
date of valuation, could reasonably be expected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review.
ft. is the net rent divided by the occupied area.
Exceptional items are significant items of income or expense that by Rent roll see cash rent roll.
virtue of their size, incidence or nature are shown separately on the Consolidated income statement to enable a full understanding of the Reversion reversionary income is the increase in rent estimated by Groups financial performance.
the Groups external valuers, where the net rent is below the current estimated rental value.
The increases to rent arise on rent reviews, Gearing is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets.
letting of vacant space, expiry of rent free periods or rental increase steps.
Gearing on EPRA net assets is the Groups net debt as a percentage of net assets excluding mark to market derivative adjustments.
Reversionary yield is the anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
It is Initial yield is the net rents generated by a property or by the calculated by dividing the ERV by the valuation.
portfolio as a whole expressed as a percentage of its valuation.
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return obtained by a Interest cover is the number of times net interest payable is covered shareholder calculated by combining both share price movements by operating profit.
IPD is the Investment Property Databank Ltd, a company that Total property return is the return for the year combining the produces an independent benchmark of property returns.
valuation movement on our portfolio and the income achieved in the year.
IPD Quarterly Universe is the IPD quarterly universe property fund benchmark of approximately 240 196bn UK domestic property Unique web visits is the number of unduplicated counted only once funds.
visitors to a website over the course of a specified time period.
LIBOR is the British Bankers Association London Interbank Offer Rate.
Like-for-like are those properties that have been held throughout a 12-month period and have not been subject to a refurbishment or redevelopment programme in the last 24 months.
167Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
