STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation Use of alternative performance measures The Group also presents alternative performance measures, Description of business including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax, Tate & Lyle PLC the Company is a public limited company adjusted earnings per share, adjusted operating cash flow and incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England.
adjusted free cash flow, which are used for internal The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London performance analysis and incentive compensation Stock Exchange.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group provide These measures are presented because they provide investors ingredients and solutions to the food, beverage and other with valuable additional information about the performance of industries.
The Group operates from numerous production the business.
For the years presented, adjusted performance facilities around the world.
measures exclude, where relevant: The Groups continuing operations comprise two operating Exceptional items excluded as they relate to events which are segments: Speciality Food Ingredients SFI and Bulk unlikely to recur, are outside the normal course of business Ingredients BI.
Segment information is presented in Note 5. and therefore merit separate disclosure in order to provide a Accounting period better understanding of the Group's underlying financial performance : The Groups annual financial statements are drawn up to Amortisation of acquired intangible assets costs associated 31 March.
These financial statements cover the year ended with amounts recognised through acquisition accounting that 31 March 2017 with comparative financials for the year ended impact earnings compared to organic investments : 31 March 2016.
Net retirement benefit interest accounting charges or credits Basis of accounting which are not linked to the underlying performance of the The consolidated financial statements on pages 106 to 177 business.
The amounts excluded reflect the net interest cost have been prepared in accordance with International Financial of post-retirement benefit plans substantially closed to future Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations as accrual : and adopted for use in the European Union and those parts of the Tax on the above items and tax items that themselves meet Companies Act 2006 that are applicable to companies reporting these definitions.
Alternative performance measures reported by the Group are The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore not be resources to continue to operate for a period not less than 12 comparable with similarly-titled measures reported by other months from the date of approval of the financial statements companies.
and that there are no material uncertainties around their Reconciliations of the alternative performance measures to the assessment.
Accordingly, the directors continue to adopt the most directly comparable IFRS measures are presented in going concern basis of accounting.
The Groups principal accounting policies are set out in Note 2 Changes in constant currency and Note 3 and have been consistently applied throughout the year.
Where changes in constant currency are presented, they are calculated by retranslating current year results at prior year Functional and presentation currency exchange rates.
This represents a change to the methodology The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds applied in previous years, which involved retranslating prior year sterling, which is also the Companys functional currency.
All results at current year exchange rates.
This change, which has amounts are rounded to the nearest million, unless otherwise not had a material impact, has been made to align with how the indicated.
majority of external stakeholders view constant currency performance comparisons.
Reconciliations of the movement Accounting standards adopted during the year in constant currency have been included in the additional In the current year, the Group has adopted, with effect from information within this document.
1 April 2016, new or revised accounting standards as set out below: 2.
Principal accounting policies requiring significant judgements and estimates IFRS 11 Joint arrangements Amendments IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment Amendments In preparing these consolidated financial statements, management has made judgements and used estimates and IAS 38 Intangible assets Amendments assumptions in establishing the reported amounts of assets, IAS 27 Separate financial statements Amendments liabilities, income and expense under the Groups accounting IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Amendments policies.
Judgements are based on the best evidence available Annual Improvements to IFRS 2012-14 cycles to management.
Estimates are based on factors including The adoption of these amendments has had no material effect historical experience and expectations of future events, on the Groups financial statements.
corroborated with external information where possible.
Judgements and estimates and their underlying assumptions are reviewed and updated on an ongoing basis, with any revisions being recognised prospectively.
However, given the inherent uncertainty of such estimates, the actual results might differ significantly from the anticipated ones.
com 111 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued Judgements and estimates 2.
Principal accounting policies requiring Corn and co-product inventories held in the US business are significant judgements and estimates continued measured at net realisable value since they are considered to be The accounting policies and information about the accounting agricultural produce after harvest.
The Group uses financial estimates and judgements made in applying these accounting instruments mainly forward contracts to manage price risk policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts within its US business, by hedging the contracted amount of recognised in the consolidated financial statements are set corn when either business division Bulk Ingredients or out below.
Speciality Food Ingredients enters into a finished good sales Fair value measurement contract.
this accounting policy applies principally to Available-for-sale The elements of the Groups US net corn position are accounted financial assets: Derivatives and hedge accounting: Financial for as follows: instruments fair value and risk management: and Retirement Contracts for the physical purchase of corn in respect of benefit obligations see Notes 18, 28, 29, and 30 corresponding committed sales of finished goods are marked A number of the Groups accounting policies and disclosures to market in accordance with IAS 39 with any gains or losses require the measurement of fair value for either financial or recognised in the income statement non-financial assets and liabilities.
Examples of the former Contracts for the sale of corn and corn based products are include loans, interest rate swaps and commodity contracts: marked to market in accordance with IAS 39 with any gains or examples of the latter include intangibles and property, plant losses recognised in the income statement and equipment acquired in a business combination.
Corn inventories are measured at net realisable value in accordance with IAS 2.3, with any gains or losses recognised Fair value is the amount of money, or other consideration, in the income statement expected to be exchanged for an asset or a liability in an arms length transaction.
When measuring fair value, the Group takes Financial instruments futures and options are carried at fair into account the characteristics of the asset or liability and uses value with any gains or losses recognised immediately in the observable market data, such as prices quoted on a recognised income statement.
exchange, to the greatest extent possible.
Where such data Although the Group manages corn price risk by entering into is not available, the Group has an established framework in offsetting back-to-back corn positions, there is still underlying place that deals with setting, monitoring and evaluating price risk on the basis cost that must be paid to get delivery of non-observable inputs, including the respective classification the corn to its plants.
This basis is the difference in price of the fair value measurements.
Such unobservable inputs between that at which a farmer will sell and the price on the are based on managements own assessment of market and Chicago Mercantile Exchange CME, and is typically driven by other conditions currently prevailing or expected to prevail.
local supply, demand and logistics factors, requiring estimation Fair value measurements are categorised into three different for valuation purposes.
levels based on the degree to which the inputs used to arrive at The production of finished goods from corn also results in the the fair value of the assets and liabilities are observable and the production of three co-products corn gluten feed, corn gluten significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement in its meal and corn oil.
The price risk associated with these entirety, as follows: co-products cannot readily be hedged as there are no actively Level 1 inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active traded markets for these commodities.
Whilst the Group actively markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can manages its overall co-product positions in the US, the Group assess at the measurement date.
The prices of equity shares can hold either a net long or short position for each co-product or bonds quoted on the London Stock Exchange are examples based on the volume of co-products made, bought or short of Level 1 inputs sold and forward sold at any point in time.
These positions are measured at fair value at each reporting date, with gains and Level 2 inputs are those, other than quoted prices included in losses recognised in the income statement.
Level 1, that are observable either directly or indirectly.
Most interest rate swaps fall in this category as their prices are Management exercises significant judgement in deriving these referenced to a published rate curve, but it is not price fair values, which involves estimating the basis and the price at specific to the swap itself which the Group will purchase or sell these co-product positions Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs.
The Group generally in the future.
These inputs are classified as unobservable, and classifies assets or liabilities as Level 3 when their fair value are derived by in-house experts, with reference to sources such is determined using unobservable inputs that individually, or as: the expected supply and demand for corn and substitute when aggregated with other unobservable inputs, represent products, expectations of weather conditions, and historical more than 10% of the fair value of the observable inputs of the published co-product pricing levels over a period of up to three assets or liabilities.
This would include expected future cash months from the balance sheet date.
flows from budgets and forecasts the entity has made.
Whilst it is possible to model the sensitivity of profit to changes Certain elements of the Groups commodity contract portfolio in any one of the key assumptions, it is important to note that, also fall into this category, as their values include significant due to the complexity and interdependence of related management-derived assumptions.
assumptions, the overall net impact in reality is likely to For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial be different.
statements at fair value on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation based on lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole at the end of the reporting period.
112 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 112 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Deferred tax is calculated using the enacted or substantively The accounting for corn and co-product positions can create significant volatility in the Groups income statement, although enacted rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
the use of such contracts is critical to the business as it effectively limits the Groups exposure to fluctuating market Similarly to current taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities are prices.
offset only when there is a legal right to settle them net and the Whilst it is not practical to quantify all elements included in fair entity intends to do so.
This normally requires both assets and value measurements, the Group discloses sensitivity analysis on liabilities to have arisen in the same country.
the key areas of judgement price of co-products and basis and Income tax expense reported in the financial statements the carrying amounts impacted by estimation uncertainty in comprises current tax as well as the effects of changes in Note 29.
Full details of the valuation technique are also included deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Tax expense credits are in Note 29. generally recognised in the same place as the items to which they relate.
For example, the tax associated with a gain on Taxation disposal is recognised in the income statement, in line with the this accounting policy principally applies to Income taxes see gain on disposal.
Equally, the tax associated with pension Note 12 obligation actuarial gains and losses is recognised in other Taxable profit differs from accounting profit because it excludes comprehensive income, in line with the actuarial gains and certain items of income and expense that are recognised in the losses.
financial statements but are treated differently for tax purposes.
Judgements and estimates Current tax is the amount of tax expected to be payable or The Group operates in a large number of countries around the receivable on the taxable profit or loss for the current period.
Uncertainties exist in relation to the interpretation of This amount is then amended for any adjustments in respect of complex tax legislation, changes in tax laws, and the amount prior periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have and timing of future taxable income.
In some jurisdictions, been written into law enacted or irrevocably agreeing tax liabilities with local tax authorities can take several announced committed by the respective government years.
This could necessitate future adjustments to taxable substantively enacted at the period-end date.
income and expense already recorded.
Current tax receivable assets and payable liabilities are offset At the period-end date, tax liabilities and assets are based on only when there is a legal right to settle them net and the entity managements best judgements around the application of the intends to do so.
This is generally true when the taxes are levied tax regulations and managements estimate of the future by the same tax authority.
amounts that will be settled.
Management considers tax exposures individually, and arrives at judgements with support Because of the differences between accounting and taxable from experienced tax professionals and external advisors.
There profits and losses reported in each period, temporary is, however, a risk that the Groups judgements are challenged differences arise on the amount certain assets and liabilities are by the tax authorities, resulting in a different tax payable or carried at for accounting purposes and their respective tax recoverable from the amounts that have been provided.
Deferred tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable on these temporary differences.
As described in Note 12, the Group has internal funding structures that favourably affect the amount of tax payable.
Deferred tax liabilities arise where the carrying amount of an In managements view, these structures are compliant with asset is higher than the tax value more tax deduction has been the relevant tax regulations.
This can happen where the Group invests in capital assets, as governments often encourage investment by allowing Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses only to tax depreciation to be recognised faster than accounting the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available depreciation.
This reduces the tax value of the asset relative to against which the losses can be utilised.
Management its accounting carrying amount.
Deferred tax liabilities are judgement is required to determine the amount of deferred tax generally provided on all taxable temporary differences.
The that should be recognised, dependent on the anticipated timing periods over which such temporary differences reverse will vary and quantum of future taxable profit.
depending on the life of the related asset or liability.
The main uncertainties impacting taxation arise from potential Deferred tax assets arise where the carrying amount of an asset changes to legislation.
Firstly, the OECDs Base Erosion and is lower than the tax value less tax benefit has been taken.
Profit Shifting BEPS project has been one of the most This can happen where the Group has trading losses, which significant multilateral initiatives in recent years for modifying cannot be offset in the current period but can be carried international tax rules.
As these recommendations continue to forward.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only where the evolve and are adopted into local tax legislation over the coming Group considers it probable that it will be able to obtain the years, this may continue to impact the Groups effective tax rate.
benefit of them in the future for example, use such losses by Secondly, the UK government has announced changes to UK tax offsetting them against future taxable profits.
legislation in respect of restrictions to interest relief and the use of carry forward losses.
Whilst this legislation has yet to be Taxable temporary differences can also arise on investments enacted, these changes may impact our ability to deduct interest in foreign subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint and fully utilise brought forward losses in the UK in the future.
Where the Group is able to control the reversal of Lastly, potential reform of the US tax system could impact these differences and it is probable that these will not reverse in the Groups effective tax rate, depending on the nature of any the foreseeable future, then no deferred tax is provided.
com 113 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued measuring the present value of the benefit obligation and 2.
Principal accounting policies requiring experience differences between those assumptions and actual significant judgements and estimates continued outcomes.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in Taxation continued the period in which they occur.
Judgements and estimates continued b Defined contribution plans The Groups operating model involves cross-border supply of Contributions made by the Group to defined contribution significant volumes of goods into numerous end markets, and pension schemes are recognised in the income statement in the the provision of services from one jurisdiction to another.
There period in which they fall due.
is a risk that different tax authorities could seek to assess higher Judgements and estimates profits or lower costs to activities being undertaken in their At 31 March 2017, the present value of the benefit obligations of jurisdiction, potentially leading to higher total tax payable by the plans was 1,769 million 2016 1,634 million, including the Group.
76 million 2016 66 million in respect of the unfunded Retirement benefit plans medical plans.
The present value of the benefit obligations is this accounting policy principally applies to Retirement benefit based on actuarial estimates of the future benefits that will be obligations see Note 30 payable to the members of the plans.
As such, the benefit obligations are based on a number of assumptions, changes to The Group operates both defined contribution and defined which could have a material impact on the reported amounts.
benefit pension plans principally in the UK and the US and unfunded retirement medical plans in the US.
The present value of the benefit obligations is most sensitive to the discount rate applied to the benefit obligations, assumed life a Defined benefit plans expectancies, and expected future price inflation rates.
Whilst For accounting purposes a valuation of each of the defined the Group establishes the assumptions on a consistent basis benefit plans is carried out annually at 31 March using reflecting advice from qualified actuaries, based on published independent qualified actuaries.
Benefit obligations are indices and other actuarial data, management must apply measured using the projected unit credit method and are judgement in selecting the most appropriate value from within discounted using the market yields on high-quality corporate an acceptable range.
bonds denominated in the same currency as, and of similar duration to, the benefit obligations.
Plan assets are measured Changes in the assumptions used in determining the present at their fair value at the period-end date.
Where a plan holds a value of the benefit obligations will have an impact on the qualifying insurance policy, the fair value of the policy is deemed Groups income statement through their effect on the service to be equivalent to the present value of the related benefit cost and the interest on the net deficit or surplus in the plans.
However, most of the impact of such changes, together with fluctuations in the actual return on the plan assets, will be A deficit or surplus is recognised on each plan, representing the reflected in other comprehensive income.
difference between the present value of the benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets.
Where a plan is in surplus, Impairment of non-financial assets the surplus recognised is limited to the present value of any this accounting policy principally applies to Goodwill and other amounts that the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or intangibles: and Property, plant and equipment see Notes 19 a reduction in future contributions.
and 20 The costs of the defined benefit plan that are recognised in Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are the income statement include the current service cost, any reviewed for impairment whenever any events or changes in past service cost and the interest on the net deficit or surplus.
circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts may not Gains or losses on curtailments or settlements of the plans be recoverable.
are recognised in the income statement in the period in which If such an indication exists, then the recoverable amount of the curtailment or settlement occurs.
Plan administration the asset is estimated.
In addition, goodwill is tested for costs incurred by the Group are also recognised in the income impairment annually.
An asset is impaired to the extent that its carrying amount Current service cost represents the increase in the present exceeds its recoverable amount.
An assets recoverable amount value of the benefit obligation due to benefits accrued during represents the higher of the benefit which the entity expects to the period, less employee contributions.
Past service cost derive from the asset over its life, discounted to present value represents the change in the present value of the benefit value in use and the net price for which the entity can sell the obligation that arises from benefit changes that are applied asset in the open market fair value less costs of disposal.
retrospectively to benefits accrued in previous years.
Any past The discount rate used for the value in use calculation is a service cost is recognised in full in the period in which the pre-tax rate that reflects the risks specific to the asset or benefit changes are made.
Interest on the net deficit or surplus is calculated by applying the For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped discount rate that is used in measuring the present value of the together into the smallest group of assets which has cash benefit obligation to the deficit or surplus.
inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from Re-measurements of the deficit or surplus are recognised in other assets or groups of assets.
This could also be a single other comprehensive income.
Goodwill does not generate cash inflows independently differences between the actual return on plan assets less asset and is, therefore, tested for impairment at the level of the Cash management expenses and the interest on the plan assets and Generating Unit CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated.
Actuarial gains and losses represent Note 19 shows the allocation of material elements of goodwill to the effect of changes in the actuarial assumptions made in CGUs for impairment testing purposes.
114 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 114 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION When goodwill is tested for impairment and the carrying amount Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future of the CGU or group of CGUs to which it is allocated exceeds its payments using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current recoverable amount, the impairment is allocated first to reduce market assessments of the time value of money and, where the carrying amount of the goodwill and then pro-rata to the appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
The unwinding of other non-financial assets belonging to the CGU or group of any discount is recognised in the income statement within finance CGUs on the basis of their respective carrying amounts.
The impact of any discounting is not material to the Group.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for assets Provision is made for restructuring costs when a detailed formal other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in plan for the restructuring has been determined and the plan the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable has been communicated to those affected by it.
Such reversals are limited to the carrying amount of the expected disposal of assets are not taken into account in the asset had no impairment been recognised in previous measuring restructuring provisions.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not provided for.
Provisions are recognised for onerous contracts to the extent Asset impairments have the potential to significantly impact that the benefits expected to be derived from a contract are operating profit.
In order to determine whether impairments are lower than the unavoidable cost to the Group of meeting its required, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the obligations under the contract.
Before establishing the amount asset.
This calculation is usually based on projecting future cash of the provision, any impairment losses on assets associated flows over a five-year period and using a terminal value to with the contract are recognised.
incorporate expectations of growth thereafter.
A discount factor Judgements and estimates is applied to obtain a present value value in use.
The fair The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising value less costs of disposal of an asset may be used where this in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for results in an amount in excess of value in use.
All such actions are strenuously defended Judgements and estimates but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely Estimated future cash flows for impairment calculations are to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice and based on managements expectations of future volumes and after taking into account the Groups insurance arrangements.
margins based on plans and best estimates of the productivity Whilst there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any of the assets in their current condition.
Future cash flows claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation therefore exclude benefits from major expansion projects existing at 31 March 2017 will have a material adverse effect requiring future capital expenditure where that expenditure on the Groups financial position.
has not been approved and committed on the dates the assets At 31 March 2017, provisions included amounts for insurance are tested unless a fair value less costs of disposal model claims payable by the Groups reinsurance company, legal is used.
matters, employee termination and other restructuring costs.
Future cash flows are discounted using a discount rate These have been based on managements judgement as to appropriate for the CGU being tested.
The discount rate is whether any obligation, legal or otherwise, existed at the balance impacted by estimates of interest rates, equity returns and sheet date and if so, managements estimate of the likelihood, market and country-related risks.
The Groups weighted magnitude and timing of future payments related to the obligation.
average cost of capital, which is used as the initial reference 3.
Other principal accounting policies point for the discount rate before any asset specific adjustments The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under are made, is reviewed on a regular basis.
If the cash flow or the historical cost convention, modified in respect of the revaluation discount rate assumptions were to change because of market to fair value of available-for-sale financial assets, derivative conditions, the level of impairment could be different and could financial instruments, certain inventories, assets classified as result in the asset impairment being increased or, excepting held for sale, assets held by defined benefit pension plans and goodwill, reversed, in part or in full, at a future date.
intangible and tangible assets acquired in a business combination.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Basis of consolidation see Note 32 a Business combinations A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount that is A business combination is a transaction or other event in which the recognised when: 1 the Group has a present obligation legal or Group obtains control over a business.
Business combinations are constructive as a result of a past event: 2 it is more likely than accounted for using the acquisition method, the key elements of not that a payment will be required to settle the obligation: and which are set out below.
3 the amount can be reliably estimated.
Identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business are Where a payment is not probable, or the amount of the generally measured at their fair value at the acquisition date.
obligation cannot be measured with sufficient certainty, a Retirement benefit obligations and deferred tax assets and liabilities contingent liability is disclosed.
are measured in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
Contingent liabilities are also disclosed if a possible obligation Consideration transferred represents the sum of the fair values at arises from past events, but its existence will be confirmed only the acquisition date of the assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events.
and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control over the acquired business.
Acquisition-related costs are charged to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
com 115 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued or loss, other comprehensive income and net assets are shown 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued on one line of the relevant primary financial statements, until Basis of consolidation continued the date on which significant influence or joint control ceases.
a Business combinations continued Losses of an equity accounted investment in excess of the Any non-controlling interest in the acquired business is Groups interest in the entity are not recognised, except to the measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests extent that the Group has incurred obligations or made proportionate share of the identifiable assets and liabilities of payments on behalf of the investment.
Unrealised profits or losses on transactions between the Group Put options written by the Group over non-controlling interests and its equity accounted investments are eliminated to the are initially recognised as a liability measured at the present extent of the Groups interest.
Losses are, however, recognised value of the exercise price with a corresponding charge directly in full where they represent a reduction in the net realisable to equity.
Subsequently, the liability is measured at the present value of a current asset or an impairment loss.
value of the expected redemption amount and re-measured in accordance with IAS 39 at amortised cost, with changes Discontinued operations recognised in the income statement.
see Note 8 Goodwill arising in a business combination represents the An operation is classified as discontinued if it is a component excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of the Group that: i has been disposed of, or meets the criteria of any non-controlling interest in the acquired business and, to be classified as held for sale: and ii represents a separate where a business combination is achieved in stages, the fair major line of business or geographic area of operations or value at the acquisition date of the Groups previously held will be disposed of as part of a single co-ordinated plan to equity interest, over the net total of the identifiable assets and dispose of a separate major line of business or geographic liabilities of the acquired business at the acquisition date.
re-measurement gain or loss on the previously held equity The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of discontinued interest is recognised in the income statement.
Any shortfall, operations are presented separately from those of continuing or negative goodwill, is recognised immediately as a gain in the operations.
Discontinued operations comprised the following activities: Changes in the Groups ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within - Eaststarch Morocco equity.
Any gain or loss upon loss of control is recognised in the On 31 October 2015, the Group completed the re-alignment of income statement.
its Eaststarch joint venture leading to the disposal of the majority of the Groups European Bulk Ingredients business.
b Subsidiaries In a related agreement, the Group also agreed to sell its corn Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to Archer Daniels Midland Inc. which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when ADM and completed this disposal on 1 June 2016. the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those - Sugars and European Starch pension settlements returns through its power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are The Group announced on 29 September 2015, that the consolidated from the date on which the Group obtains control.
Commercial Court in London had handed down a decision in a They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases.
case brought by American Sugar Refining, Inc. ASR in which it made a number of claims in relation to its acquisition of the A non-controlling interest in a subsidiary represents the share Groups European Sugars business in 2010.
The European of the net assets of the subsidiary that is attributable to the Sugars business formed part of the Groups discontinued equity interest in the subsidiary that is not owned by the Group.
Sugars segment, and accordingly the costs associated with The Groups income and expenses, assets and liabilities and those claims were recognised within discontinued operations.
cash flows include those of each of its subsidiaries from the During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group also made a date on which the Company obtains control until such time as settlement payment of 2 million to transfer all remaining control is lost.
Inter-company transactions, balances and obligations under a legacy pension scheme related to the unrealised gains or losses on transactions between Group Groups discontinued European Wheat Starch business, which companies are eliminated.
was disposed of in the 2008 financial year.
c Equity accounted investments Foreign currency translation An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
Significant influence is the power to participate in this accounting policy applies to all transactions and net assets financial and operating policy decisions but not to control or in foreign currencies jointly control them.
At entity level, transactions in foreign currencies are translated A joint venture is an entity or a contractual arrangement under into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling which the Group and other parties undertake activities that are at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities subject to joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the assets of the arrangement rather than to the arrangements exchange rate ruling at the period-end date.
Currency assets or obligations for its liabilities.
translation differences arising at entity level are recognised in the income statement.
Interests in associates and joint ventures together Equity accounted investments are accounted for under the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequently, the Groups share of the profit 116 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 116 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds Goodwill and other intangible assets sterling.
On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are see Note 19 translated into pounds sterling at the average rate of exchange a Goodwill for the period and their assets and liabilities are translated into Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an pounds sterling at the exchange rate ruling at the period-end intangible asset and is allocated to the CGU or group of CGUs date.
Currency translation differences arising on consolidation that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business are recognised in other comprehensive income and taken to the combination.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested for currency translation reserve.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of Goodwill is carried at cost less any recognised a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the impairment losses.
foreign operation and translated accordingly.
b Intangible assets other than goodwill When a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on disposal Intangible assets other than goodwill are stated at cost less recognised in the income statement is determined after taking accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment into account the recycling of cumulative currency translation losses.
differences arising on consolidation of the operation subsequent to the adoption of IFRS.
c Acquired in business combinations In the cash flow statement, the cash flows of foreign operations An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is recognised as an intangible asset at its fair value at the date are translated into pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for the period.
of acquisition, if it is separable from the acquired business or arises from contractual or legal rights.
Acquired intangible Revenue recognition assets, for example, patents and customer relationships, are this accounting policy relates to Notes 5 and 6 amortised on a straight-line basis over the periods of their expected benefit to the Group, which range from three to a Sales of goods and services 15 years.
Revenue comprises the fair value of consideration receivable in the ordinary course of business, net of value added and sales d Other intangibles taxes, rebates and discounts and after eliminating sales within Other intangible assets mainly comprise certain capitalised the Group.
Sales are recognised at the point or points at which costs relating to product development, marketing, computer the Group has performed its obligations in connection with the software and the global IS IT system.
contractual terms of the sales agreement, primarily at the point Costs incurred on the development, design and testing of new or of delivering to the customer, and in exchange obtains the right improved products are capitalised only when the technical and to consideration.
Discounts mainly comprise volume driven commercial feasibility of the product has been proven and prior rebates.
The Group accrues for discounts against agreed to the product going into full production.
Research and other customer terms reflecting latest expectations of amounts likely development expenditures are charged to the income statement to fall due under the terms of the customer contract, in the period in which they are incurred.
subsequently adjusted for actual performance.
Other intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis b Interest income over the periods of their expected benefit to the Group, which Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis using are in the range of three to ten years.
Capitalised costs in the effective interest rate method.
respect of the core global IS IT system are being amortised over c Dividend income seven years.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive Property, plant and equipment payment is established.
see Note 20 Exceptional items Land and buildings mainly comprise manufacturing sites and this accounting policy principally relates to Note 7 administrative facilities.
Plant and machinery mainly comprise Exceptional items comprise items of income and expense, equipment used in the manufacturing and operating process.
including tax items that are material in amount, relate to events Assets under the course of construction comprise property, which are unlikely to recur, are outside the normal course of plant and equipment which is in the process of being completed business and therefore merit separate disclosure in order to and not ready for use.
provide a better understanding of the Group's underlying Property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less financial performance.
Examples of events that give rise to the accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Historical cost disclosure of material items of income and expense as includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the exceptional items include, but are not limited to: impairment acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the events: significant business transformation activities: disposals assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as of operations or significant individual assets: litigation claims by appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic or against the Group: and restructuring of components of the benefits associated with the expenditure will flow to the Group Groups operations.
and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All repairs All material amounts relating to exceptional items in the and maintenance expenditures are charged to the income Groups financial statements are classified on a consistent basis statement during the period in which they are incurred.
com 117 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued Financial instruments see Notes 16, 17, 18, 24, 25, 28 and 29 Property, plant and equipment continued Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to a Trade receivables allocate the cost of each asset to its residual value over its Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value, which is useful economic life as follows: generally the same as the invoiced amount, and subsequently measured at amortised cost, or their recoverable amount.
Trade Freehold land No depreciation receivables are predominantly short term and the effects of Freehold buildings 20 to 50 years time-value of money are not considered material.
Leasehold property Period of the lease Where there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the Plant and machinery 3 to 28 years receivable, the receivable is considered to be impaired.
Residual values and useful lives are reviewed at each period-end Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the date and adjusted as appropriate, with any resulting changes debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and recognised in the income statement prospectively.
default or delinquency in payments are considered to be Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the objective evidence of impairment.
The amount of the impairment, and related provision, is the difference between the disposal proceeds with the carrying amount and are included in the income statement.
receivables original value and the present value of the estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective Leased assets interest rate.
The impairment is recognised in the income see Notes 20, 25, 29 and 33 statement immediately, and the provision is netted against the value of the receivable.
When a trade receivable is deemed Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group uncollectable, it is written off against the related provision.
assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are leases are capitalised at the lower of the fair value of the leased credited against operating expenses in the income statement in asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
the period in which they are recovered.
The corresponding lease commitments, net of finance charges, b Trade payables are included in liabilities.
Leasing payments are analysed Trade payables are predominantly short-term and are initially between capital and interest components so that the interest recognised at fair value, which is generally the invoice amount.
element is charged to the income statement over the period of The effects of time-value of money are not considered material.
the lease at a constant rate of interest.
c Cash and cash equivalents Depreciation on assets held under finance leases is charged to Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held the income statement, on a straight-line basis over the shorter at call with banks and other short-term highly liquid of the lease term and its useful life.
investments with original maturities of three months or less All other leases are treated as operating leases.
The total and, for the purposes of the cash flow statement only, bank amount payable under the operating lease, including lease overdrafts where the legal right of offset exists.
incentives and guaranteed lease increases, is spread over the d Available-for-sale financial assets lease period on a straight-line basis.
Where termination or Equity instruments held by the Group are generally availableextension options are available to the Group, management for-sale and are carried at fair value, with movements in fair considers whether it is reasonably certain of exercising these value recognised in other comprehensive income.
The Group options in determining the lease period.
does not trade equity instruments and does not manage them Inventories on a fair value basis.
Where fair value cannot be reliably measured, the assets are carried at cost.
see Note 15 Cumulative fair value gains or losses on an asset are recycled Corn and co-product inventories held in the US business are through the income statement when the asset is disposed or measured at net realisable value since they are considered to be impaired.
A significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of a agricultural produce after harvest, in accordance with IAS 2.3. security below its cost is considered as an indicator that the Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairments are recognised in the All other inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in profit or realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where loss for an investment in an available-for-sale equity instrument applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have are not reversed through profit or loss.
However, if the fair value been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present of an impaired available-for-sale debt security subsequently location and condition and is calculated using the first in first increases and the increase can be related objectively to an event out or weighted average methods, appropriate to the materials occurring after the impairment loss was recognised, then the and production processes involved.
Net realisable value impairment is reversed through profit or loss.
represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provisions are made for any slow moving, obsolete or defective inventories.
118 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 118 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION e Borrowings Hedge accounting seeks to mitigate this mismatch by applying specific accounting rules, if strict criteria are met, to the items Borrowings are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred, which is generally the amount of that create the exposure to risk and the items used to manage that risk.
Borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, whereby A hedging relationship principally consists of two items: the the net proceeds are gradually increased to the amount that will hedged item and the hedging instrument.
The hedged item is be ultimately settled using a constant rate of interest.
This the transaction or balance that exposes the Group to a risk that constant rate of return is used to calculate the amount can be identified and the hedging instrument is the transaction recognised as interest expense in the income statement.
or balance that is used to manage the risk.
In the above example, the contract to sell goods at a future date in a foreign As explained under Hedge accounting see below, the carrying amount of a borrowing may be adjusted where it is a hedged currency gives rise to foreign currency transaction exposure for the Group.
As exchange rates change, the eventual proceeds liability in a fair value hedge.
from the future sale when expressed in the entitys functional Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group currency will also change, creating risk.
has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for In this example, the foreign currency exchange contract the at least 12 months after the period-end date.
Group takes out locks in a known functional currency value for Dividends on preference shares that are classified as a liability its foreign currency cash receipt and therefore eliminates the are recognised in the income statement as interest expense.
volatility in cash flows on the sale.
The forward currency exchange contract is the hedging instrument.
f Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its For a hedging relationship to qualify for hedge accounting, it exposure to commodity price, currency exchange rate and must be documented at inception together with the Groups risk interest rate movements.
The Group does not hold or issue management objective and strategy for initiating the hedge.
The derivatives for speculative purposes.
hedge must both be expected to be highly effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair value attributed to the hedged All derivative financial instruments held by the Group are risk and actually be highly effective in doing so.
This relationship recognised as assets or liabilities measured at their fair values is demonstrated by matching the terms of hedging instruments at the period-end date.
As explained under Hedge accounting very closely to the hedged items, or where the Group uses more below, unless and to the extent that a derivative is in a complex arrangements, by the use of statistical methods that designated and effective cash flow or net investment hedging show the relationship between the hedging pairs.
relationship, fair value gains and losses on derivatives are recognised in the income statement.
There are three hedging models that apply to different types of transactions.
Derivative financial instruments that are not in a designated hedging relationship are classified as held for trading.
a Cash flow hedges Hedging relationships are classified as cash flow hedges where g Embedded derivatives the hedging instrument hedges exposure to variability in cash Some contracts may include features that are similar to and flows that are attributable either to a particular risk associated expose the Group to the same risks as standalone derivatives.
with a recognised asset or liability such as interest payments on Where such an embedded derivative is not closely related to the variable rate debt, a highly probable forecast transaction such host contract and where the host contract itself is not already as commodity purchases or the foreign currency risk in a firm recognised at fair value, the embedded derivative is separated commitment such as the purchase of an item of equipment.
from the host contract and accounted as a standalone derivative.
The hedge accounting principles described below Where a hedging relationship is classified as a cash flow hedge, equally apply to embedded derivatives.
to the extent that the hedge is effective, changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised in other h Offsetting financial instruments comprehensive income rather than in the income statement.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net When the hedged item affects the income statement, the amount presented in the statement of financial position only cumulative fair value gain or loss recognised in other where there is a legally enforceable right to offset them and the comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement.
Group intends to either settle them on a net basis or realise the When a hedged firm commitment results in the recognition of a asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
non-current asset, the initial carrying amount of the asset is Hedge accounting adjusted for the cumulative fair value gain or loss.
see Notes 28 and 29 If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or if the hedging relationship no longer meets the conditions for hedge As described in Note 29, the Group uses derivatives to mitigate accounting, the cumulative fair value gain or loss remains in risk.
In many cases, the changes in the fair value of the equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income derivatives are recognised before the hedged risk affects the statement.
If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer Group income statement.
For example, when the Group takes expected to occur, the cumulative fair value gain or loss is out a forward foreign currency contract to fix the exchange immediately transferred to the income statement.
rate on committed or highly probable future sales in a foreign currency, changes in the fair value of the forward foreign exchange contract will be recognised in the income statement immediately, whereas the future sale will not affect the income statement until it is made.
This creates a mismatch in the timing of recognition for compensating gains and losses.
com 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued the sale is expected to complete within 12 months of the 3.
Other principal accounting policies continued balance sheet date, and must be highly probable.
Hedge accounting continued Assets that are classified as held for sale are measured at the b Net investment hedges lower of their carrying amount when they were classified as held A net investment hedge is the hedge of the currency exposure for sale and their fair value less costs to sell.
Any impairment on the retranslation of the Groups net investment in a foreign loss on a disposal group is allocated first to goodwill and then, operation.
on a pro-rata basis, to the remaining assets and liabilities other Net investment hedges are accounted for similarly to cash flow than inventories, financial instruments, investment property, hedges.
Changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are, employee benefits and deferred tax assets, which continue to be to the extent that the hedge is effective, recognised in other measured in accordance with the relevant Group accounting comprehensive income.
In the event that the foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative Impairment on the initial recognition of held for sale assets, and fair value gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is gains or losses on subsequent re-measurement, are recognised transferred to the income statement where it is included in the gain in the income statement.
or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Once classified as held for sale, property, plant and equipment c Fair value hedges and intangible assets are no longer depreciated or amortised.
Hedging relationships are classified as fair value hedges where Equity accounted investments are no longer equity accounted the hedging instrument hedges the exposure to changes in the when classified as held for sale.
fair value of a recognised asset or liability that is attributable to a Accounting standards issued but not yet particular risk such as the fair value of fixed rate debt.
adopted Where the hedging relationship is classified as a fair value The following new standards have been issued and are relevant hedge, the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is to the Group, but were not effective for the financial year adjusted by the change in its fair value attributable to the hedged beginning 1 April 2016, and have not been adopted early: risk only and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement where, to the extent that the hedge is a IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective, it offsets the fair value gain or loss on the hedging effective for the year ending 31 March 2019 instrument.
The Group has undertaken a review of its commercial arrangements across all significant revenue streams and Share-based payments geographies including assessing the timing of revenue see Note 31 recognition as well as focusing on the accounting for principal and agency relationships, consignment stocks and discounts The Company operates share-based compensation plans under provided.
As a result of the review, the Group has concluded that which it grants awards over its ordinary shares to its own the adoption of IFRS 15 is not expected to have a material employees and to those of its subsidiaries.
All of the awards impact on reported revenue or revenue growth rates, and will granted under the existing plans are classified as equity-settled continue to review its contracts and transactions with awards.
The Group recognises a compensation expense that is customers to ensure compliance with IFRS 15 on adoption.
based on the fair value of the awards measured at the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Fair value is b IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for the year not subsequently re-measured unless relevant conditions ending 31 March 2019 attaching to the award are modified.
The Group has undertaken a review of the key areas of IFRS 9 Fair value reflects any market performance conditions and all focused principally on classification and measurement of non-vesting conditions.
Adjustments are made to the financial assets and liabilities, impairment of financial assets compensation expense to reflect actual and expected forfeitures and hedge accounting.
The Group has concluded that the due to failure to satisfy service conditions or non-market adoption of IFRS 9 will not have a material impact on its performance conditions.
consolidated results or financial position, and will continue to review its activities in these areas to ensure compliance with The resulting compensation expense is recognised in the IFRS 9 upon adoption.
income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and a corresponding credit is recognised in equity.
In the c IFRS 16 Leases effective for the year ending 31 March event of the cancellation of an award, whether by the Group or a 2020 participating employee, the compensation expense that would The standard eliminates the classification of leases as either have been recognised over the remainder of the vesting period operating or finance leases and introduces a single accounting is recognised immediately in the income statement.
model, and will require the Group to recognise substantially all of its current operating lease commitments on the statement of Assets held for sale financial position.
The financial impact of this, together with any see Note 8 other implications of the standard, will be assessed during the 2018 financial year.
An asset or group of assets is classified as held for sale if its carrying amount will be principally recovered through a sale There are no other new standards, new interpretations or transaction rather than through continuing use in the business amendments to standards or interpretations that have been and the following conditions are met: published that are expected to have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
it is available for immediate sale in its present condition: management has committed to, and has initiated, a plan to sell the asset: and 120 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 120 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures For the reasons set out in Note 1, the Group presents alternative performance measures including adjusted operating profit, adjusted profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share.
For the years presented, these alternative performance measures exclude, where relevant: exceptional items the amortisation of acquired intangible assets net retirement benefit interest tax on the above items and tax items that themselves meet these definitions.
The following table shows the reconciliation of the key alternative performance measures to the most directly comparable measures reported in accordance with IFRS: Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 IFRS Adjusting Adjusted IFRS Adjusting Adjusted m unless otherwise stated reported items reported reported items reported Continuing operations Sales 2 753 2 753 2 355 2 355 Operating profit 233 31 264 127 61 188 Net finance expense 32 7 25 29 6 23 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 32 32 28 28 Profit before tax 233 38 271 126 67 193 Income tax credit expense 22 71 49 5 27 32 Non-controlling interests Profit attributable to owners of the Company 255 33 222 121 40 161 Basic earnings per share pence 55.0p 7.2p 47.8p 26.1p 8.6p 34.7p Diluted earnings per share pence 54.2p 7.1p 47.1p 25.9p 8.6p 34.5p Effective tax rate 9.6% 18.2% 4.0% 16.5% The following table shows the reconciliation of the adjusting items in the current and comparative year: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Notes m m Continuing operations Exceptional items in operating profit 7 19 50 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 12 11 Total excluded from adjusted operating profit 31 61 Net retirement benefit interest 11 7 6 Total excluded from adjusted profit before tax 38 67 Tax on adjusting items 12 6 27 Exceptional deferred tax credits 7, 12 65 Total excluded from adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 33 40 www.
com 121 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures continued The Group also presents two alternative cash flow measures which are defined as follows: a Adjusted free cash flow represents cash generated from continuing operations excluding the impact of exceptional items, less net interest paid, less income tax paid, less capital expenditure.
b Adjusted operating cash flow is defined as adjusted free cash flow from continuing operations, adding back net interest paid, tax paid and retirement cash contributions, and excluding derivative and margin call movements within working capital.
The following table shows the reconciliation of these alternative cash flow performance measures: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Adjusted operating profit from continuing operations 264 188 Adjusted for: Depreciation and adjusted amortisation 137 104 Share-based payments charge 21 9 Changes in working capital and other non-cash movements 4 24 Net retirement benefit obligations 36 38 Capital expenditure 153 198 Net interest and tax paid 63 36 Adjusted free cash flow 174 53 Add back: net interest and tax paid 63 36 Add back: net retirement cash contributions 42 40 Less: derivatives and margin call movements within changes in working capital 6 5 Adjusted operating cash flow 273 124 Restated to reflect exclusion of operating post-retirement benefit costs.
The Group presents certain financial measures as defined in its external financial covenants as well as return on capital employed ROCE metrics as Key Performance Indicators.
Net debt to EBITDA and interest cover are defined under the Groups financial covenants and reported on a proportionate consolidation basis.
For financial covenant purposes these ratios are calculated based on the accounting standards that applied for the 2014 financial year, with new accounting standards adopted by the Group subsequent to 1 April 2014 disregarded.
Net debt is calculated using average currency exchange rates.
Average invested operating capital represents the average at the beginning and end of the period of shareholders equity excluding net debt, net tax assets liabilities, investment in joint ventures and associates and net retirement benefit obligations.
All ratios are calculated based on unrounded figures in million.
The following tables present the calculation of these alternative measures: 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Calculation of net debt to EBITDA ratio on a financial covenant basis Net debt 27 452 434 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect use of average exchange rates in translating net debt 13 11 Net debt on a financial covenant basis 439 423 Adjusted operating profit 264 188 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation 48 44 to exclude charges for share-based payments 21 9 to add back depreciation and adjusted amortisation 137 104 Pre-exceptional EBITDA 470 345 Net debt to EBITDA ratio times 0.9 1.2 122 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 122 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 4.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures continued 31 March 2017 2016 m m Calculation of interest cover ratio on a financial covenant basis Adjusted operating profit 264 188 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation 43 38 to exclude charges for share-based payments 21 9 Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of intangible assets on a financial covenant basis 328 235 Adjusted net finance expense 25 23 Further adjustments set out in financial covenants: to reflect proportionate consolidation other 1 1 Net finance expense on a financial covenant basis 24 22 Interest cover ratio times 13.9 10.7 31 March 2017 2016 2015 m m m Calculation of return on capital employed Adjusted operating profit 264 188 Add back amortisation on acquired intangible assets 12 11 Profit before interest, tax and exceptional items from continuing operations for ROCE 252 177 Goodwill and other intangible assets 401 390 340 Property, plant and equipment 1 061 926 750 Working capital, provisions and non-debt derivatives 394 323 339 Other 29 31 Invested operating capital of continuing operations 1 856 1 668 1 460 Average invested operating capital 1 762 1 564 Return on capital employed ROCE % 14.3 11.3 www.
com 123 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment information Segment information is presented on a consistent basis with the information presented to the Board the designated Chief Operating Decision Maker for the purposes of allocating resources within the Group and assessing the performance of the Groups businesses.
Continuing operations comprise two operating segments: Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients.
Central, which comprises central costs including head office, treasury and re-insurance activities, does not meet the definition of an operating segment under IFRS 8 Operating Segments but no subtotal is shown for the Groups two operating segments in the tables below so as to be consistent with the presentation of segment information presented to the Board.
Both segments are served by a single manufacturing network, and receive services from a number of global support functions.
The segmental allocation of costs is performed using standard product costs to allocate all direct costs including plant-based depreciation and allocation keys for all indirect costs including share-based payments and amortisation which reflect the value of service provided to each operating unit, consistently applied over time.
The Board uses adjusted operating profit as the measure of the profitability of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit is, therefore, the measure of segment profit presented in the Groups segment disclosures.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before specific items that are considered to hinder comparison of the trading performance of the Groups businesses year-on-year.
During the years presented, the items excluded from operating profit in arriving at adjusted operating profit were the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional items.
The segmental classification of exceptional items is detailed in Note 7.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board but it does receive segmental analysis of net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
Accordingly, the amounts presented for segment assets and segment liabilities in the tables below represent those assets and liabilities that comprise elements of net working capital.
The segmental split of working capital allocates raw material and co-product inventories, and associated payables, based on the segmental split of primary capacity.
Other payables, work in progress and finished goods inventories and receivables are allocated based on the products to which they relate.
The segment results were as follows: a Segment sales Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Speciality Food Ingredients 996 897 Bulk Ingredients 1 757 1 458 Sales continuing operations 2 753 2 355 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 13 Sales total operations 2 756 2 368 b Segment results Adjusted operating profit, as defined in Notes 1 and 4, is the measure of profitability of the Groups businesses used by the Board as it is considered to be the best measure to compare the results over time.
Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Notes m m 181 Speciality Food Ingredients 150 129 Bulk Ingredients 84 46 46 Central Adjusted operating profit continuing operations 264 188 Adjusting items: exceptional items 19 50 7 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 12 11 19 233 Operating profit continuing operations 127 2 Finance income 11 1 34 30 Finance expense 11 32 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 21 28 233 Profit before tax continuing operations 126 1 Profit before tax discontinued operations 8 47 Profit before tax total operations 234 173 124 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 124 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 5.
Segment information continued Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 % % Adjusted operating margin Speciality Food Ingredients 18.2% 16.7% Bulk Ingredients 7.3% 5.8% Central n a n a Total continuing operations 9.6% 8.0% c Segment assets liabilities Segment assets and segment liabilities include net working capital inventories, trade and other receivables, less trade and other payables.
An analysis of total assets and total liabilities by operating segment is not presented to the Board.
At 31 March 2017 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 371 129 242 Bulk Ingredients 349 146 203 Central 13 50 37 Group working capital continuing and total operations 733 325 408 Other assets liabilities 2 038 1 114 924 Group assets liabilities 2 771 1 439 1 332 At 31 March 2016 Assets Liabilities Net m m m Net working capital Speciality Food Ingredients 339 150 189 Bulk Ingredients 341 146 195 Central 11 54 43 Group working capital continuing operations 691 350 341 Group working capital discontinued operations 5 2 3 Group working capital total operations 696 352 344 Other assets liabilities 1 858 1 173 685 Group assets liabilities 2 554 1 525 1 029 d Other information depreciation Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 45 33 Bulk Ingredients 63 46 Central 1 1 Depreciation continuing operations 109 80 Depreciation discontinued operations 1 Depreciation total operations 109 81 www.
com 125 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 5.
Segment information continued e Other information amortisation Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 30 27 Bulk Ingredients 9 7 Central 1 1 Amortisation continuing operations 40 35 Amortisation discontinued operations Amortisation total operations 40 35 f Other information share-based payments Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 7 3 Bulk Ingredients 6 3 Central 8 3 Share-based payments continuing operations 21 9 Share-based payments discontinued operations Share-based payments total operations 21 9 g Other information capital investment Capital investment comprises the cost of acquisition of businesses and capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including amounts accrued and investments.
Capital investment is allocated based on the product s to which the investment relates.
Where capital expenditure relates to plant sustaining or cost reduction projects, the cost is allocated based on the segmental split of the product mix by plant.
Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Speciality Food Ingredients 66 162 Bulk Ingredients 73 75 Central 19 15 Capital investment continuing operations 158 252 Capital investment discontinued operations Capital investment total operations 158 252 h Geographical information sales by destination Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m United Kingdom 34 31 United States 2 057 1 736 Other European countries 306 288 Rest of the world 356 300 Sales continuing operations 2 753 2 355 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 13 Sales total operations 2 756 2 368 126 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 126 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 5.
Segment information continued i Geographical information sales by origin Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m United Kingdom 37 19 United States 2 173 1 828 Other European countries 335 319 Rest of the world 208 189 Sales continuing operations 2 753 2 355 Sales discontinued operations 8 3 13 Sales total operations 2 756 2 368 j Concentration of revenue During the year ended 31 March 2017, no customer contributed more than 10% of the Groups external sales from continuing operations 2016 no customer contributed more than 10%.
k Geographical information location of non-current assets The parent company is based in the United Kingdom.
The location of non-current assets, other than financial instruments, deferred tax assets and retirement benefits are as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m United Kingdom 20 20 United States 1 088 956 Other European countries 343 327 Rest of the world 108 99 Non-current assets 1 559 1 402 www.
com 127 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 6.
Operating profit Analysis of operating expenses by nature: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m External sales 2 753 2 355 Operating expenses Cost of inventories included in cost of sales 1 449 1 268 Staff costs of which 153 million 2016 131 million was included in cost of sales 10 328 262 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment: owned assets of which 99 million 2016 71 million was included in cost of sales 20 106 79 leased assets included in cost of sales 20 3 1 Exceptional items 7 19 50 Amortisation of intangible assets: acquired intangible assets 19 12 11 other intangible assets 19 28 24 Operating lease rentals: plant and machinery 32 24 Research and development expenditure 37 29 Impairment of trade receivables 17 5 Impairment of intangible assets non-exceptional items 5 Other operating expenses 496 480 Total operating expenses 2 520 2 228 Operating profit 233 127 Included within discontinued operations are operating expenses totalling 3 million 2016 14 million partially offset by a net exceptional gain of 1 million 2016 more than offset by 46 million net exceptional gain.
128 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 128 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 7.
Exceptional items Exceptional items recognised in arriving at operating profit were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Footnotes m m Continuing operations Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs a 5 48 Asset impairments reversals and related costs b 26 3 US retirement benefit obligation settlement gain c 9 Tate & Lyle Ventures disposals d 3 7 SPLENDA Sucralose revised table top commercial agreement e 2 US litigation f 15 Slovakia re-measurement gain g 5 Exceptional items continuing operations 19 50 Discontinued operations Business re-alignment Eaststarch and Morocco disposals h 1 64 ASR litigation settlement i 18 Exceptional items discontinued operations 1 46 Exceptional items total operations 18 4 There was net tax on exceptional items within continuing operations of nil 2016 21 million credit.
In addition, the following exceptional deferred tax items were recognised in the current and comparative year: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Footnotes m m Continuing operations Recognition of UK tax losses j 34 Sucralose IP transfer k 31 Exceptional deferred tax credit continuing operations 65 Discontinued operations Moroccan tax matters l 5 Exceptional tax charge discontinued operations 5 Exceptional tax credit charge total operations 65 5 Continuing operations within operating profit a In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a further net 5 million charge 6 million of additional cash costs offset by a 1 million non-cash credit in respect of the business re-alignment of SPLENDA Sucralose and its European operations.
Cash payments in respect of this re-alignment were 21 million.
The net 5 million charge was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised exceptional costs relating to business re-alignment totalling 48 million.
Of this charge, 43 million was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment, and 5 million was classified within Central costs.
Of the total charge, 29 million was paid in cash in 2016.
The final total of business re-alignment costs relating to the Groups restructuring programme announced in April 2015 was 171 million, with 61 million being cash costs and 110 million being non-cash costs.
com 129 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 7.
Exceptional items continued Continuing operations within operating profit continued b In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a net 13 million non-cash exceptional charge in respect of its Brazilian food systems business, Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria E Comrcio S. A..
The charge comprised a partial impairment of goodwill totalling 16 million, reflecting lower growth expectations against the backdrop of a weaker macroeconomic outlook in Brazil, and a credit of 3 million arising from lower contingent consideration now expected to fall due in 2019 under the terms of the December 2014 acquisition agreement.
The net charge was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 7 million charge in respect of its equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd. its Food Systems subsidiary in China, which the Group sold on 23 December 2016.
The charge comprised a 3 million cost reflecting the impact of impairing and deconsolidating the Groups investment itself a cash generating unit before disposal, together with a 4 million charge for associated costs.
Accordingly, the Group has derecognised the 3 million financial liability previously recorded in equity for the written put option over the minority shareholders equity interest.
Cash payments for costs totalled 3 million to date.
This charge was recognised within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
Also recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017 was a non-cash charge of 6 million in respect of the impairment of certain redundant assets at our Decatur facility in the US, that are no longer in use in the business.
The charge was recognised within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a non-cash exceptional credit of 3 million in respect of the recognition of a partial reversal of an impairment of plant and equipment assets which were previously impaired through an exceptional charge.
The exceptional credit was classified within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
c In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 9 million non-cash gain in respect of the settlement of certain elements of its US retirement benefit plan obligations.
Under the settlement, some deferred members of the plans elected to receive a lump sum during the year ended 31 March 2017, in exchange for surrendering their rights to future payments under the scheme.
The exceptional gain was recognised within the Bulk Ingredients segment 6 million and the Speciality Food Ingredients segment 3 million.
d In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a 3 million cash gain, primarily in respect of deferred consideration received following disposal of part of its venture fund portfolio which was previously classified as an available-for-sale financial asset.
This profit was classified within central costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a net 7 million gain 9 million gain partially offset by 2 million loss, primarily from disposals in its venture fund portfolio.
e In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group received cash compensation of 5 million related to SPLENDA Sucralose and the renegotiation of our commercial agreements for the SPLENDA Sucralose brand table top business.
The Group also wrote off a marketing-related intangible asset loss of 9 million and wrote back an associated payable gain of 2 million.
These amounts were all classified within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
f In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a 15 million exceptional charge in respect of two US litigation cases: one brought by the American Sugar Association 9 million cash settled : and another in respect of the Passaic River litigation 6 million.
See Note 32 for further details.
g In the year ended 31 March 2016, as part of the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture, the Group recognised an exceptional gain of 5 million within continuing operations reflecting the re-measurement to fair value of its existing investment in Slovakia.
This gain was classified within the Speciality Food Ingredients segment.
Net tax on exceptional items within continuing operations was nil 2016 21 million credit.
Tax credits charges on exceptional items are only recognised to the extent that gains losses incurred are expected to result in tax recoverable payable in the future.
Discontinued operations within operating profit h On 1 June 2016, the Group completed the sale of its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to Archer Daniels Midland Inc. ADM, receiving gross cash proceeds of 4 million.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, following completion of this disposal, the Group recognised a 1 million exceptional gain resulting from the recycling of cumulative foreign exchange translation gains from reserves to the income statement.
This non-cash gain was recognised within the Bulk Ingredients segment.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a net exceptional gain of 64 million in relation to the exit from a substantial part of its European Bulk Ingredients business.
The Group recognised an exceptional profit on disposal of 68 million in respect of the disposal of its share in the Eaststarch joint venture see Note 34.
The Group also recognised a 4 million non-cash impairment charge in respect of its Bulk Ingredients facility in Morocco with an agreement reached with ADM to purchase this facility.
The impairment represented the excess of book carrying value over the expected proceeds.
130 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 130 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 7.
Exceptional items continued Discontinued operations within operating profit continued i In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised an 18 million exceptional charge within discontinued operations for settlement made with American Sugar Refining, Inc. ASR in respect of claims made in relation to its acquisition of the Groups EU Sugars business in September 2010.
There was no tax on discontinued exceptional items in either the current or comparative year.
Continuing operations exceptional deferred tax items j In the year ended 31 March 2017, following changes in UK tax legislation and changes to the internal financing arrangements we use to fund our international businesses, the Group recognised an exceptional deferred tax credit of 34 million, reflecting previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK, which, based on enacted legislation, are now expected to be utilised against future UK taxable profits.
k During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group undertook the transfer at fair value of its sucralose intellectual property assets from the UK to the US, to align ownership with the corresponding manufacturing base following the move to consolidate all sucralose production into our US facility in the 2016 financial year.
This transaction led to the recognition of an exceptional deferred tax credit of 31 million, reflecting the anticipated future tax benefits.
Discontinued operations exceptional tax items l During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised an exceptional tax charge of 5 million in discontinued operations in respect of historical tax matters relating to the Moroccan facility which the Group has now sold to ADM.
Exceptional cash flows Net cash outflow on exceptional items were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations Footnotes m m Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs a 21 29 Asset impairment reversals and related costs b 3 SPLENDA Sucralose revised table top commercial agreement e 5 US litigation f 9 Net cash outflow exceptional items 24 33 Income statement charge included in profit before tax 19 50 Adjustment for: exceptional items per cash flow statement 5 17 In addition, in the year ended 31 March 2017, there were exceptional cash flows relating to the sale of assets from the Groups venture fund portfolio totalling 2 million 2016 18 million recognised within cash from investing activities.
com 131 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 8.
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale The discontinued operations of the Group are disclosed and discussed further in Note 3.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated income statement were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 Eaststarch Morocco total discontinued Discontinued operations Notes m Sales 5 3 Operating profit including exceptional items 1 Profit for the year discontinued operations 1 Basic and diluted earnings per share pence discontinued operations 13 0.2p On 1 June 2016, the Group completed the sale of its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to ADM, receiving gross cash proceeds of 4 million and recognising a 1 million exceptional gain in the year ended 31 March 2017 see Note 7.
Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Sugars Total Morocco EU Starch discontinued Discontinued operations Notes m m m Sales 13 13 Operating profit loss including exceptional items 65 20 45 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 21 2 2 Profit loss before tax 67 20 47 Income tax charge exceptional item 7, 12 5 5 Profit loss for the year discontinued operations 62 20 42 Basic earnings per share pence discontinued operations 13 9.0p Diluted earnings per share pence discontinued operations 13 8.9p In the year ended 31 March 2016, sales of 13 million were recognised by the Groups corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco.
The Group realised an exceptional profit on disposal of 68 million in respect of the disposal of the Hungarian, Bulgarian and Turkish Eaststarch plants.
This exceptional profit was partially offset by a 3 million operating loss in relation to the Groups corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco which included an exceptional impairment charge of 4 million see Note 7.
The 20 million loss relating to Sugars and EU Starch comprised the 18 million ASR charge described in Note 7 and 2 million Amylum UK Pension Scheme payment see Note 30.
The results of the discontinued operations which have been included in the consolidated statement of cash flows were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 Eaststarch Morocco total discontinued Discontinued operations m Profit before tax from discontinued operations 1 Adjustment for: Exceptional items and changes in working capital 4 Cash used in discontinued operations 3 Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Sugars Total Morocco EU Starch discontinued Discontinued operations m m m Profit loss before tax from discontinued operations 67 20 47 Adjustments for: Exceptional items and changes in working capital 69 5 74 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 2 2 Cash used in discontinued operations 4 25 29 132 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 132 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 8.
Discontinued operations and assets classified as held for sale continued Assets held for sale There were no assets or liabilities classified as held for sale at 31 March 2017.
The assets and liabilities of Tate & Lyle Morocco SA were classified as held for sale at 31 March 2016, based on the agreement to sell to ADM, which completed on 1 June 2016.
The carrying amounts of assets and liabilities totalled 5 million consisting of assets totalling 7 million and liabilities totalling 2 million after recognition of a 4 million impairment charge see Note 7.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys external auditors,  LLP, and its associates were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.7 0.7 Fees payable for other services: the audit of the Companys subsidiaries 1.7 1.2 audit-related services 0.1 0.1 other nonaudit services 0.1 0.2 2.6 2.2 Fees in respect of the audit of the Groups pension schemes 0.1 0.1 Total 2.7 2.3 The audit and non-audit fees related to joint ventures payable to  LLP and its associates, excluded from the table above, were nil 2016 nil and nil 2016 nil respectively.
Staff costs Staff costs were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 Continuing Discontinued Continuing Discontinued operations operations operations operations m m m m Wages and salaries 275 233 1 Social security costs 22 17 Other pension costs: defined benefit pension schemes 2 2 defined contribution pension schemes 7 4 Retirement medical benefits 1 3 Share-based payments 21 9 Total 328 262 1 The average number of people employed by the Company and its subsidiaries, including part-time employees, is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 By operating segment Continuing operations Speciality Food Ingredients 1 931 2 092 Bulk Ingredients 1 731 1 621 Central 489 448 Total 4 151 4 161 In addition, the average number of people employed relating to discontinued operations was 15 2016 93.
At 31 March 2017, the Group employed 4,146 2016 4,326 people within continuing operations.
The number of people employed by the Group relating to discontinued operations at 31 March 2017 was nil 2016 91.
The Groups two operating segments are supported by Global Operations, which is responsible for running the Groups manufacturing facilities.
The Group allocates the headcount of the Global Operations team to segments based on the split of primary capacity at each location.
Central includes shared-service employees who perform activities for the whole Group, including the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
com 133 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 10.
Staff costs continued Key management compensation Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 11 10 Retirement benefits 1 1 Share-based payments 9 2 Total 21 13 Key management is represented by the Executive Committee and the Companys Directors.
Remuneration details of the Companys Directors, are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 97.
Members of the Executive Committee are identified on pages 20 and 21.
The aggregate gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options were 4 million 2016 9 million.
Finance income and expense Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations Note m m Net finance expense Interest payable on bank and other borrowings 25 22 Fair value hedges: fair value loss on interest rate derivatives 4 4 fair value adjustment of hedged borrowings 4 4 Finance lease interest 1 1 Net retirement benefit interest 30 7 6 Unwinding of discount on liabilities 1 1 Finance expense 34 30 Finance income 2 1 Net finance expense 32 29 Reconciliation to adjusted net finance expense Notes m m Net finance expense 32 29 Net retirement benefit interest 30 7 6 Adjusted net finance expense continuing operations 4 25 23 Finance expense is shown net of borrowing costs capitalised within property, plant and equipment of 2 million 2016 2 million at a capitalisation rate of 3.8% 2016 3.3%.
Interest payable on other borrowings includes 0.2 million 2016 0.2 million of dividends in respect of the Groups 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Finance income and finance expense relate wholly to continuing operations.
134 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 134 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 12.
Income taxes Analysis of charge for the year continuing operations Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Current tax: United Kingdom UK Overseas 23 32 Adjustments in respect of previous years 2 23 30 Deferred tax: Credit for the year 45 24 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1 Income tax credit expense continuing operations 22 5 Reconciliation to adjusted income tax expense Notes m m Income tax credit expense 22 5 Taxation on exceptional items, amortisation of acquired intangibles and net retirement benefit interest 6 27 Exceptional deferred tax credits 7 65 Adjusted income tax expense continuing operations 4 49 32 The Groups adjusted effective tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the adjusted income tax expense of 49 million 2016 32 million as a proportion of adjusted profit before tax of 271 million 2016 193 million was 18.2% 2016 16.5%.
The Groups reported tax rate on continuing operations, calculated on the basis of the reported income tax credit of 22 million 2016 charge of 5 million as a proportion of profit before tax of 233 million 2016 126 million was a credit of 9.6% 2016 charge of 4.0%.
The Groups income tax credit for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 22 million 2016 charge of 5 million is stated after recognition of a net deferred tax credit of 45 million 2016 25 million.
The deferred tax credit comprises exceptional deferred tax credits of 65 million 2016 nil partially offset by underlying net deferred tax charges of 20 million 2016 25 million net credit.
Exceptional deferred tax credits recognised in the year of 65 million comprised two items.
Firstly, changes to UK tax legislation and the Groups internal financing structure which led to the recognition of an exceptional deferred tax credit of 34 million arising from previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK, which, based on enacted legislation, are now expected to be utilised against future UK taxable profits.
Secondly, the Group also transferred at fair value its sucralose intellectual property assets from the UK to the US.
This transfer led to the recognition of an exceptional deferred tax credit of 31 million.
Further details can be found in Note 7.
The Groups adjusted income tax charge of 49 million 2016 32 million is stated before the exceptional deferred tax credits above, and the tax impact of the adjustments made between reported and adjusted profit before tax being adjustments for amortisation of acquired intangibles, exceptional items in operating profit and net retirement benefit interest items.
The standard rate of corporation tax in the UK reduced from 20% to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 and is expected to reduce from 19% to 17% with effect from 1 April 2020.
The Group recognised no tax charge in the UK in the year 2016 nil, as costs, together with brought forward losses, exceeded current year taxable income.
The remaining UK losses have been treated as partially recoverable in future periods, as reflected in the deferred tax asset booked for the year see page 137.
At 31 March 2017, the carrying value of current tax assets totalled 1 million 2016 3 million and the carrying value of the current tax liabilities totalled 57 million 2016 66 million.
com 135 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued An analysis of tax charged credited on adjusting items and exceptional tax items within continuing operations is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 Tax charge Tax charge Pre-tax credit Pre-tax credit Notes m m m m Exceptional items Business re-alignment impairment, restructuring and other net costs 5 1 48 15 Asset impairments reversals and related costs 26 2 3 1 US retirement benefit obligation settlement gain 9 3 Tate & Lyle Ventures disposals 3 7 SPLENDA Sucralose agreement 2 1 US litigation 15 6 Slovakia re-measurement gain 5 Exceptional items 19 50 21 Amortisation of acquired intangibles 12 3 11 3 Net retirement benefit interest 7 3 6 3 Adjusting items 4 38 6 67 27 Exceptional deferred tax items Recognition of UK tax losses 34 Sucralose IP transfer 31 Exceptional deferred tax items 4, 7 65 Total continuing operations 4 38 71 67 27 136 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 136 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 12.
Income taxes continued Reconciliation of the effective tax rate As the Groups head office and parent company are domiciled in the UK, the Group uses the UK corporation tax rate to reference its effective tax rate, notwithstanding that only a small proportion of the Groups business is in the UK.
The tax on the Groups profit before tax differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 233 126 Less share of profit after tax of joint ventures and associates 32 28 Parent Company and subsidiaries profit before tax 201 98 Corporation tax charge thereon at 20% 2016 20% 40 19 Adjusted for the effects of: non-deductible expenses and other permanent items 1 impairment of assets not deductible 5 1 benefits from internal financing arrangements 21 25 sale of investments not taxable 1 1 2 manufacturing credits 6 3 3 losses not currently treated as being recoverable in future periods 4 10 losses previously considered irrecoverable, now expected to be recoverable 3 4 exceptional deferred tax credits 65 5 adjustments to tax in respect of prior years 3 6 tax rates above the UK rate applied on overseas earnings 25 9 Total tax credit charge continuing operations 22 5 1 The Groups tax rate is favourably affected by its internal financing arrangements which involve borrowing by its US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
2 The Group benefits from certain tax incentives available to manufacturing companies.
3 The Group incurs expenses in jurisdictions where it does not currently expect to be able to recover these amounts against future taxable profits.
This has the effect of increasing the Groups overall effective tax rate.
4 The Group undertook certain intragroup transactions in the 2017 financial year which resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets in respect of UK losses now expected to be utilised.
This amount comprised the exceptional credit of 34 million relating to the Groups internal financing transaction and an exceptional credit of 31 million relating to the sale of Sucralose IP.
5 The Group benefited from the favourable settlement of certain prior year tax matters in the previous year.
6 The Group is subject to tax rates in the jurisdictions in which it operates which are above the UK corporation tax rate the Groups reference rate leading to an increase in total tax charge.
Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate are as follows: 1.
Our ability to continue to operate an efficient internal financing arrangement One of our internal financing arrangements involves borrowing by our US operations from the UK, the interest on which has the effect of reducing the amount of tax payable.
This delivered a benefit of 21 million in the 2017 financial year 2016 25 million.
As a result of recent changes in UK legislation arising from the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting BEPS project and changes to the internal financing arrangements we use to fund our international businesses, we have recognised a deferred tax asset of 34 million arising from previously unrecognised tax losses in the UK, which are now expected to be utilised against future UK taxable profits.
In the current period, the recognition of this deferred tax asset lowers the reported effective tax rate on statutory earnings.
If our ability to operate this revised arrangement was constrained in the future, due to legislative change or other factors, our tax rate could increase materially.
The timing of recognising tax benefits from brought forward losses in the UK The Group expects to recognise taxable profits in the UK in future periods and, as such, has recognised historical losses in the form of deferred tax assets expected to be utilised to offset these profits.
However, legislative changes in the UK have been announced which will restrict the utilisation of these brought forward losses by 50%.
Upon substantive enactment of these changes, the Group will be required to adjust the deferred tax asset recognised in respect of historical losses, which is expected to lead to a significant taxation charge in the Groups income statement.
To the extent that UK taxable profits exceed current year losses in any subsequent year, the Groups ability to relieve these profits against prior year losses will be limited, resulting in a UK tax charge.
Material changes in the geographic mix of profits The Groups effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of profits and reflects a combination of higher rates in certain jurisdictions such as the US, nil effective rates in the UK due to the availability of losses and rates that lie somewhere in between.
If the geographic mix of profits were to change materially, through changes in the composition of the Groups business or changes in performance, our tax rate could change materially.
com 137 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 12.
Income taxes continued Key factors impacting the sustainability of the effective tax rate are as follows continued: 4.
Changes in tax rates Changes in tax rates in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could have a material effect on the Groups effective tax rate.
An increase in geopolitical uncertainties in the US following the election of President Trump and elsewhere, increases the likelihood of material tax reform.
The precise nature of any such reform, and its impact on the Group, remains uncertain.
Resolution of tax judgements arising from current or future tax issues At any one time, the Group can be subject to a number of challenges by tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
The outcome of these challenges is inherently uncertain, potentially resulting in a different tax charge from the amounts initially provided.
At 31 March 2017, the Group carried a central provision in respect of uncertain tax positions totalling 34 million 2016 31 million within current tax payables.
Based on all substantively enacted legislation, the Group believes that no reasonably possible change in assumptions would lead to a material change in this number.
Exceptional deferred tax credits In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised exceptional deferred tax credits totalling 65 million in respect of recent changes to UK tax legislation and the Groups internal financing structure, and a transfer of intellectual property assets related to SPLENDA Sucralose to align ownership with the underlying US manufacturing base.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is calculated on differences between the accounting value of assets and liabilities and their respective tax values.
The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year were as follows: Capital allowances in Retirement Shareexcess of benefit based 1 depreciation obligations payments Tax losses Other Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2015 132 87 4 13 28 Credited charged to the income statement underlying 4 6 1 8 13 4 Credited to the income statement exceptional 21 21 Credited to other comprehensive income 2 2 Charged directly to equity 3 3 Acquisitions disposals 7 7 Currency translation differences 6 1 2 7 At 31 March 2016 134 83 2 6 25 18 Charged credited to the income statement underlying 11 6 2 5 20 Credited to the income statement exceptional 34 31 65 Charged to other comprehensive income 30 30 Credited directly to equity 3 3 Currency translation differences 24 17 4 3 At 31 March 2017 169 64 7 40 55 3 1 During the year the Group rationalised ownership of its Sucralose IP to align it with the underlying US manufacturing base.
This resulted in the recognition of a deferred tax asset of 31 million.
Other deferred tax items include temporary differences arising from accounting provisions, where the timing of the tax deduction is different from the timing of accounting recognition, and business combinations.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balances net.
After taking these offsets into account, the net position of 3 million liability 2016 18 million liability is presented as a 22 million deferred tax asset 2016 3 million asset and a 25 million deferred tax liability 2016 21 million liability in the Groups statement of financial position.
138 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 138 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 12.
Income taxes continued Deferred tax continued Changes in enacted tax rates had no effect on the amount of deferred tax charged to the income statement and other comprehensive income or equity.
There was no impact from the imposition of new taxes.
No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect of tax losses of 508 million 2016 753 million as there is uncertainty as to whether taxable profits against which these assets may be recovered, will be available.
No unrelieved tax losses expired under current tax legislation in the year ended 31 March 2017.
The total deferred tax on unremitted earnings is 3 million 2016 4 million of which 2 million 2016 nil has been recognised.
The Group has not recognised the full amount as it is able to control the timing of the reversal of certain of these temporary differences and it is not probable that they will reverse in the foreseeable future.
Discontinued operations The income tax charge in respect of discontinued operations Note 8 in the year ended 31 March 2017 was nil 2016 5 million.
The prior year charge reflected an exceptional cost in respect of historical tax matters at the Moroccan facility, which the Group sold to ADM during the 2017 financial year.
Tax on other comprehensive income The following table sets out the tax arising on components of other comprehensive income: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Retirement benefit obligations 30 2 Deferred tax credit charge relating to components of other comprehensive income 30 2 Tax on items recognised directly in equity A deferred tax credit of 3 million, in relation to share-based payments, was recognised directly in equity 2016 3 million charge.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding an average of 4 million shares 2016 4 million shares held by the Company or the Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue to assume conversion of potentially dilutive ordinary shares, reflecting vesting assumptions on employee share plans, as well as the profit attributable to owners of the Company for any proceeds on such conversions.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares arise from awards made under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Where the vesting of these awards is contingent on satisfying a service or performance condition, the number of potentially dilutive ordinary shares is calculated based on the status of the condition at the end of the period.
Potentially dilutive ordinary shares are dilutive only when the average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the period exceeds their exercise price options or issue price other awards.
Otherwise, the effect of exercising such options or awards would be to increase the earnings per share rather than to dilute.
The greater any such excess, the greater the dilutive effect.
The average market price of the Companys ordinary shares during the year was 695p 2016 574p.
The dilutive effect of share-based incentives was 7.1 million shares 2016 3.4 million shares.
Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total operations operations operations operations operations operations Profit attributable to owners of the Company million 255 1 256 121 42 163 Weighted average number of ordinary shares million basic 464.1 464.1 464.1 464.3 464.3 464.3 Basic earnings per share pence 55.0p 0.2p 55.2p 26.1p 9.0p 35.1p Weighted average number of ordinary shares million diluted 471.2 471.2 471.2 467.7 467.7 467.7 Diluted earnings per share pence 54.2p 0.2p 54.4p 25.9p 8.9p 34.8p www.
com 139 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 13.
Earnings per share continued Adjusted earnings per share A reconciliation between profit attributable to owners of the Company from continuing operations and the equivalent adjusted metric, together with the resulting adjusted earnings per share metrics can be found below: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations Notes m m Profit attributable to owners of the Company 255 121 Adjusting items: exceptional items 7 19 50 amortisation of acquired intangible assets 19 12 11 net retirement benefit interest 11, 30 7 6 tax effect of the above adjustments 12 6 27 exceptional deferred tax credits 7, 12 65 Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the Company 4 222 161 Adjusted basic earnings per share pence continuing operations 47.8p 34.7p Adjusted diluted earnings per share pence continuing operations 47.1p 34.5p 14.
Dividends on ordinary shares Dividends on ordinary shares in respect of the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Pence Pence Per ordinary share: interim dividend paid 8.2 8.2 final dividend proposed 19.8 19.8 Total dividend 28.0 28.0 The Directors propose a final dividend for the financial year of 19.8p per ordinary share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 1 August 2017 to shareholders who are on the Register of Members on 30 June 2017.
Dividends on ordinary shares paid in the financial year: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Final dividend paid relating to the prior financial year 92 92 Interim dividend paid relating to the financial year 38 38 Total dividend paid 130 130 Based on the number of ordinary shares outstanding at 31 March 2017 and the proposed amount, the final dividend for the financial year is expected to amount to 92 million.
Inventories At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 206 187 Work in progress 19 12 Finished goods 216 190 Total 441 389 Finished goods inventories of 4 million 2016 7 million are carried at net realisable value, this being lower than cost.
Agricultural produce after harvest of 103 million 2016 101 million is carried at net realisable value.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a write-down of inventories totalling 6 million, which relates to the normal course of business and is included in the cost of inventories.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a write-down of inventories totalling 4 million, of which 3 million related to the normal course of business and was included in the cost of inventories.
The remaining 1 million related to the write-down of sucralose inventories as part of the business re-alignment costs see Note 7.
140 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 140 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 16.
Cash and cash equivalents At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Cash at bank and in hand 261 208 Short-term bank deposits 109 Total 261 317 At 31 March 2017, the Group held nil short-term deposits.
The effective interest rate on short-term deposits at 31 March 2016 was 0.5%, with an average maturity of 19 days.
The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US dollar 226 217 Euro 12 10 Sterling 2 63 Other 21 27 Total 261 317 17.
Trade and other receivables At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Trade receivables 264 246 Less provision for doubtful debts 14 8 Trade receivables net 250 238 Prepayments and accrued income 15 17 Margin deposits 3 15 Other receivables 23 31 Total 291 301 The above amounts do not include non-current other receivables of 1 million 2016 1 million.
The carrying amount of trade and other receivables was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US dollar 184 183 Euro 46 63 Sterling 12 10 Other 50 46 Total 292 302 During the year, the Group recognised impairments or write-offs of receivables totalling 5 million 2016 nil.
At 31 March 2017, trade receivables of 7 million 2016 9 million were past due but not impaired because they were considered to be collectible.
The ageing analysis of these trade receivables was as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Up to 30 days past due 6 8 13 months past due 1 1 Over 3 months past due Total 7 9 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing but interest may be charged to customers on overdue amounts.
com 141 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 18.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets comprise 30 million 2016 23 million of unlisted securities.
The fair values of available-forsale financial assets are carried at cost where fair value cannot be reliably measured.
Note m At 1 April 2015 31 Year ended 31 March 2016: Additions 4 Disposals 9 Impairment loss 3 At 31 March 2016 23 Year ended 31 March 2017: Additions 4 Disposals 2 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 30 2 Currency translation differences 3 At 31 March 2017 30 The carrying value of the available-for-sale financial assets was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US dollar 25 19 Sterling 2 2 Euro 3 2 Total 30 23 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Non-current assets 30 19 Current assets 4 Total 30 23 142 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 142 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets Other Patents and Other acquired Total acquired intangible Goodwill other IP intangibles intangibles assets Total m m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2016 204 40 150 394 204 598 Re-measurement of acquisition 1 1 1 Additions at cost 26 26 Disposals and write-offs 2 2 1 3 Currency translation differences 26 1 16 43 25 68 At 31 March 2017 229 41 166 436 254 690 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 35 91 126 82 208 Impairment charge 18 18 5 23 Disposals and write-offs 2 2 2 Amortisation charge 2 10 12 28 40 Currency translation differences 1 11 12 8 20 At 31 March 2017 17 37 112 166 123 289 Net book value at 31 March 2017 212 4 54 270 131 401 Cost At 1 April 2015 158 40 107 305 203 508 Subsidiaries acquired 32 33 65 65 Additions at cost 19 19 Disposals and write-offs 24 24 Transfer to assets held for sale 1 1 Currency translation differences 14 10 24 7 31 At 31 March 2016 204 40 150 394 204 598 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2015 33 76 109 59 168 Disposals and write-offs 5 5 Amortisation charge 2 9 11 24 35 Currency translation differences 6 6 4 10 At 31 March 2016 35 91 126 82 208 Net book value at 31 March 2016 204 5 59 268 122 390 Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill is allocated as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Allocated by geographical area United States 74 65 Allocated by operating segment Speciality Food Ingredients 136 137 Bulk Ingredients 2 2 138 139 Total 212 204 i Impairment tests carried out during the year The Group is principally operated as an integrated network in the United States and Europe, with a large amount of interdependency between plants servicing both the Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients segments.
Goodwill is therefore tested for impairment on a geographical basis, except where it can be allocated to a specific CGU.
com 143 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Goodwill and other intangible assets continued i Impairment tests carried out during the year continued A description of the impairment tests conducted in relation to the most significant goodwill amounts are set out as follows.
In each case, the recoverable amount was calculated based on value in use, with the exception of Brazilian Food Systems business Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio S. A. Gemacom, Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o and Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Biovelop.
Value in use was calculated based on budgets and plans covering the next five years that have been approved by the Board.
Cash flows were projected during the five-year period based on budgeted operating profit and managements expectations of market developments.
Beyond the five-year plan, cash flows were generally assumed to grow at the long-term growth rate for the relevant geographical markets based on forecasts included in industry reports.
Cash flows were discounted using pre-tax rates that are based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital adjusted, where appropriate, to reflect differences between the risk profile of the geographical areas or CGUs concerned and that of the Group as a whole.
Goodwill allocated by geographical area United States Goodwill allocated to the US single ingredients operations of 74 million 2016 65 million relates to the Staley acquisition in 1988.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2018 and Board-approved five-year plan, which includes mid-single-digit volume growth in Speciality Food Ingredients and flat volumes in Bulk Ingredients.
Operating profit is assumed to increase by low single digits for both Speciality Food Ingredients and Bulk Ingredients, based on managements long-term industry expectations.
Based on the risk profile of the assets tested, cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 8.8% 2016 9.6%.
Significant headroom exists and management concluded that no impairment is required.
Goodwill allocated by operating segment Speciality Food Ingredients Goodwill allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 63 million 2016 58 million that relates to the European Food Systems acquisitions of G. C. Hahn and Company in June 2007 and that of Cesalpinia Foods in December 2005.
As these businesses are operationally integrated, they are tested for impairment as one CGU.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2018.
Volumes are expected to grow at a mid-single digit compound annual growth rate over the subsequent four years and the model anticipates a recovery to profitability over the five-year timeframe.
Cash flows were discounted using a pre-tax rate of 8.8% 2016 9.6%.
Management concluded that no impairment is required.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group completed the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture whereby the remaining 50% of Amylum Slovakia s. r. o. was purchased subsequently renamed Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o..
This entity has goodwill of 43 million 2016 provisionally recorded as 35 million at the acquisition date of 31 October 2015 see Note 34.
The acquisition business case assumes expansion beyond normal maintenance capital expenditure and the recoverable amount was determined based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The fair value was determined based on a discounted cash flow model using a post-tax discount rate and cash inflows and outflows from future expansion.
Cash flows from 2018 onwards are expected to grow at a mid-single digit compound annual rate over the subsequent four years.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 7.1%.
Goodwill allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment includes 23 million pre-impairment 2016 18 million that relates to Gemacom.
The impairment model assumes expansion beyond normal maintenance capital expenditure and the recoverable amount was calculated based on fair value less costs of disposal.
The model assumes a return to profitability over the first two years with volume and contribution margin growth in low double digits over the five years.
Long-term growth rate is assumed to be 5% thereafter, reflecting the long-term growth expectations for this market.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 12% 2016 14% post-tax.
It was concluded that the recoverable amount of this CGU was lower than its carrying value.
As a result of this analysis, management has recognised an impairment charge of 16 million which has been recognised within other expenses as an exceptional item.
Refer to Note 7 for further details.
Goodwill of 10 million allocated to the Speciality Food Ingredients segment relates to the acquisition of Biovelop, the PromOat Beta Glucan plant in Sweden, in the 2014 financial year.
The key assumptions in the model are derived from the Groups Annual Operating Plan for 2018, and the model assumes significant operating profit growth as the facility expansion is completed.
Cash flows were discounted using a post-tax rate of 7.1% 2016 7.8%.
However, this calculation resulted in a low level of headroom compared with the carrying value as growth has been below the level in the prior years model.
The amount of headroom was particularly sensitive to the discount rate and volumes sold.
Reasonably possible changes in these assumptions, being changes in excess of an increase in the discount rate of 30bps, and a reduction in volumes sold of 200bps could lead to an impairment.
There are no other individually material elements of goodwill allocated to either the Speciality Food Ingredients or Bulk Ingredients operating segments.
ii Possibility of impairment in the near future Management considers that, with the exception of Biovelop, there is no reasonably possible change in one or more of the key assumptions used in the impairment tests for goodwill and other intangible assets that would give rise to an impairment loss during the coming year.
144 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 144 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 20.
Property, plant and equipment Assets in the Land Plant and course of and buildings machinery construction Total Note m m m m Cost At 1 April 2016 485 2 142 222 2 849 Additions at cost 1 5 122 128 Transfers on completion 43 199 242 1 Disposals and write-offs 30 249 25 304 Currency translation differences 70 336 406 At 31 March 2017 569 2 433 77 3 079 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2016 265 1 633 25 1 923 Depreciation charge 14 95 109 Impairment charge 3 4 7 1 Disposals and write-offs 30 247 25 302 Currency translation differences 37 244 281 At 31 March 2017 289 1 729 2 018 Net book value at 31 March 2017 280 704 77 1 061 Including assets held under finance leases 10 10 Cost At 1 April 2015 442 1 977 124 2 543 Additions at cost 10 165 175 Subsidiaries acquired 34 14 30 3 47 Transfers on completion 16 54 70 Disposals and write-offs 3 3 Transfers to assets held for sale 2 11 13 Currency translation differences 15 85 100 At 31 March 2016 485 2 142 222 2 849 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2015 245 1 523 25 1 793 Depreciation charge 11 69 80 2 Impairment charge 1 1 Reversal of impairment losses 9 9 Disposals and write-offs 1 1 Transfers to assets held for sale 1 7 8 Currency translation differences 9 58 67 At 31 March 2016 265 1 633 25 1 923 Net book value at 31 March 2016 220 509 197 926 Including assets held under finance leases 9 9 1 In the year ended 31 March 2017, the formerly impaired assets at the Singapore plant were decommissioned and removed from the fixed asset register.
2 Excludes impairment charge in relation to assets held for sale see Note 8.
Impairment reviews During the year, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 6 million in respect of the impairment of certain redundant assets at the Decatur facility in the US see Note 7.
As part of the impairment and deconsolidation of the Group's equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, the Group recognised a 1 million charge see Note 7.
Management conducted impairment reviews of other property, plant and equipment during the year and concluded that there were no other impairments.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised an impairment charge of 1 million related to assets in the European Food Systems business.
com 145 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Equity accounted investments The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated income statement are as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Associates continuing operations Joint ventures continuing operations 32 28 Joint ventures discontinued operations 8 2 Total operations 32 30 The amounts recognised in the Group consolidated statement of financial position are as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Associates 4 3 Joint ventures 92 82 Associates The Groups only associate, which is accounted for under the equity method, is Tapioca Development Corporation see Note 38.
The associate has share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group, and the country of incorporation or registration is also its principal place of business.
Tapioca Development Corporation is a private company and there is no quoted market price available for its shares.
In the opinion of the Directors, this associate is not considered to be material to the Group and there are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the associate.
The investment in the associate as at 31 March 2017 was 4 million 2016 3 million.
The Group recognised nil net profit 2016 nil in its consolidated income statement.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group received nil dividend 2016 1 million from its associate.
Joint ventures In the opinion of the Directors, the Groups material joint ventures, which are accounted for under the equity method, are Almidones Mexicanos SA Almex and DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC Bio-PDO see Note 38.
The joint ventures have share capital consisting solely of ordinary shares, which are held directly by the Group and its joint venture partners and are private companies.
No quoted market price is available for their shares.
There are no contingent liabilities relating to the Groups interest in the joint ventures.
On 31 October 2015, the Group disposed of its investment in Eaststarch C. V. As a result, the Group no longer has any guarantees in respect of banking facilities of Eaststarch.
The Group received pre-disposal dividends from Eaststarch joint venture totalling 94 million 68 million.
The movements in the carrying value of the Groups investment in joint ventures are summarised as follows: Investments in joint ventures Note m At 1 April 2016 82 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 32 Other comprehensive income including exchange 23 7 Dividends paid 29 At 31 March 2017 92 Note m At 1 April 2015 323 Share of profit after tax of joint ventures total operations 30 Disposal including goodwill 177 Other comprehensive expense including exchange 23 12 Dividends 82 At 31 March 2016 82 146 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 146 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Set out below is the summarised financial information for each material joint venture accounted for using the equity method.
The information reflects the amounts presented in the financial statements of the joint ventures and not the Groups share of those amounts adjusted for differences in accounting policies between the Group and the joint ventures to make it consistent with the Groups accounting policies.
Income Statement Year ended 31 March 2017 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Sales 618 90 708 Depreciation and amortisation 2 7 9 Other expense 546 65 611 Profit before tax 70 18 88 Income tax expense 20 4 24 Profit for the year from total operations 50 14 64 Other comprehensive income 5 10 1 14 Total comprehensive income 55 24 1 78 Dividends 33 24 57 Income Statement Year ended 31 March 2016 Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Sales 160 490 65 715 Depreciation and amortisation 3 2 6 11 Finance income 1 1 Other expense 147 426 50 623 Profit before tax 11 62 9 82 Income tax expense 2 19 1 22 Profit for the year from total operations 9 43 8 60 Other comprehensive expense income 17 9 2 24 Total comprehensive expense income 8 34 10 36 Dividends 136 17 11 164 Eaststarch comprises the results of Amylum Slovakia from 1 April 2015 until it became a subsidiary on 31 October 2015 and the results of the disposal group from 1 April 2015 until it became held for sale on 21 April 2015.
The profit on disposal is included as an exceptional item see Note 7.
For further details see Note 34.
Statement of Financial Position At 31 March 2017 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Assets Non-current assets 45 53 1 99 Cash and cash equivalents 7 10 17 Other current assets 155 14 169 207 77 1 285 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 4 4 Current borrowings 22 22 Other current liabilities 62 13 75 88 13 101 Net assets 119 64 1 184 www.
com 147 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 21.
Equity accounted investments continued Statement of Financial Position At 31 March 2016 Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Assets Non-current assets 37 51 1 89 Cash and cash equivalents 4 10 14 Other current assets 163 13 1 177 204 74 2 280 Liabilities Other non-current liabilities 6 6 Current borrowings 38 38 Other current liabilities 63 10 73 107 10 117 Net assets 97 64 2 163 Reconciliation of the summarised financial information presented to the carrying amount of the Groups interest in joint ventures: Reconciliation of summarised financial information Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2016 97 64 2 163 Profit for the year from total operations 50 14 64 Other comprehensive income expense 5 10 1 14 Dividends 33 24 57 Closing net assets at 31 March 2017 119 64 1 184 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 59 32 1 92 Carrying value at 31 March 2017 59 32 1 92 Reconciliation of summarised financial information Eaststarch Almex Bio-PDO Other Total m m m m m Opening net assets at 1 April 2015 334 80 65 2 481 Profit for the year from total operations 9 43 8 60 Disposal 190 190 Other comprehensive expense income 17 9 2 24 Dividends 136 17 11 164 Closing net assets at 31 March 2016 97 64 2 163 Interest in joint venture % 50% 50% 50% 50% Interest in joint venture at share 49 32 1 82 Goodwill at 1 April 2015 82 82 Goodwill disposed 82 82 Goodwill at 31 March 2016 Carrying value at 31 March 2016 49 32 1 82 148 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 148 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 22.
Share capital and share premium Ordinary share Share capital premium Total m m m At 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 117 406 523 Ordinary shares carry the right to participate in dividends and each share entitles the holder to one vote on matters requiring shareholder approval.
Allotted, called up and fully paid equity share capital 2017 2016 Number of Cost Number Cost shares m of shares m At 1 April 468 235 944 117 468 223 975 117 Allotted under share option schemes 20 922 11 969 At 31 March 468 256 866 117 468 235 944 117 The nominal value of each share is 25 pence.
Own shares Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under sharebased incentive arrangements see Note 31.
Own shares are held either by the Company in treasury or by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT that was established by the Company.
Movements in own shares held were as follows: 2017 2016 Number Cost Number Cost of shares m of shares m At 1 April 4 161 942 28 5 018 632 37 Purchased in the market: into treasury 2 000 000 14 into the EBT 541 110 4 1 151 484 7 Transferred to EBT 15 572 Transferred to employees: from treasury 230 619 2 325 950 2 from the EBT 958 408 7 1 682 224 14 At 31 March 5 529 597 37 4 161 942 28 Shares held for the benefit of untraceable shareholders and bearer warrant holders transferred to the trust at nil cost.
com 149 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 23.
Other reserves Currency Hedging reserve translation reserve Other reserves Total m m m m At 1 April 2015 4 34 99 61 Other comprehensive income expense : Cash flow hedges: reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 2 2 Currency translation differences: gain on currency translation of foreign operations 60 60 fair value loss on net investment hedges 18 18 Share of other comprehensive expense of joint ventures 12 12 Items transferred to income on disposal of joint ventures 34 34 At 31 March 2016 2 30 99 127 Other comprehensive income expense : Cash flow hedges: fair value gain in the year 1 1 reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 4 4 tax effect of the above movements Available-for-sale financial assets: reclassified and reported in the income statement in the year 1 1 Currency translation differences: gain on currency translation of foreign operations 185 185 fair value loss on net investment hedges 69 69 Share of other comprehensive income of joint ventures 7 7 Items transferred to income statement on disposal of subsidiary 1 1 At 31 March 2017 3 152 98 253 24.
Trade and other payables At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Current payables Trade payables 185 218 Social security 6 5 Accruals and deferred income 107 98 Other payables 17 16 Total 315 337 The above amounts do not include non-current other payables of 10 million 2016 13 million.
The carrying amount of trade and other payables was denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2017 m US dollar 242 Euro 22 Sterling 32 Other 29 Total 325 150 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 150 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 25.
Borrowings Non-current borrowings At 31 March 2017 2016 m m 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 2 2 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20232036 US$70,100,000 56 49 US Private Placement 2023-2027 US$400,000,000 319 277 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 212 215 Total 589 543 Other bank loans 1 2 Total 1 2 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 14 11 Total 14 11 Total non-current borrowings 604 556 Current borrowings At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US commercial paper 70 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 175 1 Industrial Revenue Bond 2016 US$7,555,000 5 Short-term loans 16 14 Unsecured bank overdrafts 1 5 Total 87 199 Other borrowings Obligations under finance leases 1 1 Total current borrowings 88 200 Included within borrowings are 150 million 2016 206 million of borrowings subject to fair value hedges, the amortised cost of which has been increased by 13 million 2016 17 million in the tables above.
Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased asset revert to the lessor in the event of default.
There are no other securities on borrowings.
Taking into account the Groups interest rate and cross currency swap contracts, the effective interest rates of its borrowings are as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 $25m 3.83% US Private Placement Notes 2023 3.8% 3.8% $180m 4.06% US Private Placement Notes 2025 4.1% 4.1% $100m 4.16% US Private Placement Notes 2027 4.2% 4.2% 2 $95m US Private Placement FRN 2023 2.4% 2.0% 2,394,000 6.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each 6.5% 6.5% 1 Industrial Revenue Bonds 20232036 US$70,100,000 0.7% 0.1% 6.625% Guaranteed Notes 2016 US$250,000,000 4.2% 6.75% Guaranteed Notes 2019 200,000,000 5.2% 4.7% 1 The US$7,555,000 Industrial Revenue Bond matured in December 2016.
2 Floating rate based on US six-month LIBOR 1.47%.
com 151 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 25.
Borrowings continued Short-term loans and overdrafts Short-term loans mature within the next 12 months and overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Both short-term loans and bank overdrafts are arranged at floating rates of interest and expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Credit facilities and arrangements Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC holds a US$800 million five-year committed revolving credit facility with a core of highly rated banks which matures between July 2020 and 2021.
At 31 March 2017, the facility has a value of 638 million 2016 556 million and was undrawn.
The facility incurs commitment fees at market rates prevailing when the facility was arranged.
The lenders have the right, but not the obligation, to cancel their commitments in the event of specified events of default.
In addition, the Group has substantial uncommitted facilities.
Finance lease commitments Amounts payable under finance lease commitments are as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 Present value Present value of minimum of minimum Minimum lease Minimum lease payments lease payments payments lease payments m m m m Within one year 1 1 1 1 Between one and five years 12 10 8 7 After five years 5 4 6 4 Total 18 15 15 12 Less future finance charges 3 3 Present value of minimum lease payments 15 12 26.
Change in working capital and other non-cash movements Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Decrease increase in inventories 13 8 Decrease in receivables 35 14 Decrease increase in payables 47 1 Increase decrease in derivative financial instruments excluding debt-related derivatives 4 13 Decrease increase in provisions for other liabilities and charges 2 4 Change in working capital 5 24 Other non-cash movements 9 Change in working capital and other non-cash movements 4 24 152 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 152 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 27.
Net debt Reconciliation of the decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 88 108 Net decrease in borrowings 124 29 Decrease in net debt resulting from cash flows 36 137 Fair value and other movements 3 1 Currency translation differences 57 15 Increase decrease in net debt in the year 18 121 Net debt at beginning of the year 434 555 Net debt at end of year 452 434 Movements in the Groups net debt are as follows: Borrowings and finance leases Cash and cash Debt-related equivalents Current Non-current derivatives Total m m m m m At 1 April 2015 195 305 463 18 555 Decrease increase resulting from cash flows 108 282 253 137 Fair value and other movements 2 3 1 Reclassification 169 169 Currency translation differences 14 8 11 10 15 At 31 March 2016 317 200 556 5 434 Increase decrease resulting from cash flows 88 124 36 Fair value and other movements 4 2 3 3 Reclassification 2 2 Currency translation differences 32 14 52 23 57 At 31 March 2017 261 88 604 21 452 Net debt is denominated in the following currencies: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US dollar 347 442 Euro 41 41 Sterling 46 56 Other 18 7 Total 452 434 www.
com 153 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 28.
Derivatives and hedge accounting At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities m m m m Non-current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps 2 37 5 19 Interest rate swaps 13 16 15 37 21 19 Current derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile Currency swaps 1 Interest rate swaps 2 3 2 1 3 Total derivative financial instruments used to manage the Groups net debt profile 17 38 24 19 Other current derivative financial instruments Forward foreign exchange contracts 1 Commodity pricing contracts: cash flow hedges 3 1 3 held for trading 26 15 40 18 Total other derivative financial instruments 29 16 40 22 Total derivative financial instruments 46 54 64 41 Presented in the statement of financial position as follows: Non-current derivative financial instruments 15 37 21 19 Current derivative financial instruments 31 17 43 22 46 54 64 41 All hedges are considered to be highly effective.
The ineffectiveness recognised in profit or loss in the current and prior periods is not material.
Cash flow hedges The Group employs forward foreign exchange contracts and commodity pricing contracts to hedge cash flow risk associated with forecast transactions.
The notional amounts of the outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts are as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m US dollar 2 3 Singapore dollar 1 Brazilian real 1 Euro 4 6 South African rand 6 11 Other 1 Gains and losses recognised in the hedging reserve in equity Note 23 on forward foreign exchange and commodity pricing contracts at 31 March 2017 are expected to be reclassified to the income statement at various future dates.
Fair value hedges The Group employs interest rate swap contracts to hedge interest rate risks associated with its borrowings.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding interest rate swap contracts applied in fair value hedging relationships as of 31 March 2017 were 150 million 2016 206 million.
154 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 154 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 28.
Derivatives and hedge accounting continued Net investment hedges The Group employs currency swap contracts to hedge the currency risk associated with its net investments in subsidiaries located primarily in the US and Europe.
The notional principal amounts of the outstanding currency swap contracts applied in net investment hedging relationships as of 31 March 2017 were 182 million 2016 161 million.
Within net investment hedging gains losses, a fair value loss of 21 million 2016 8 million loss on translation of the currency swap contracts to pounds sterling at the period-end date was recognised in the translation reserve in shareholders equity Note 23.
In addition, at 31 March 2017, of the Groups liabilities, a total of 188 million 2016 312 million are designated as hedges of the net investments in foreign operations.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management Financial instruments by category Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying values and fair values of all of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities as at 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016.
At 31 March 2017 Derivatives in Derivatives  a hedging held for sale financial Total carrying cost cash relationship trading assets value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 30 30 30 Trade and other receivables 17 277 277 277 Cash and cash equivalents 16 261 261 261 Derivative financial instruments assets 28 20 26 46 46 Borrowings 25 692 692 712 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 28 39 15 54 54 Trade and other payables 24 319 319 319 Total 473 19 11 30 451 471 At 31 March 2016 Derivatives in a Derivatives Available-forhedging held for sale financial Amortised Total carrying cost cash relationship trading assets value Fair value Notes m m m m m m Available-for-sale financial assets 18 23 23 23 Trade and other receivables 17 285 285 285 Cash and cash equivalents 16 317 317 317 Derivative financial instruments assets 28 24 40 64 64 Borrowings 25 756 756 775 Derivative financial instruments liabilities 28 23 18 41 41 Trade and other payables 24 345 345 345 Total 499 1 22 23 453 472 Trade and other receivables presented above excludes 15 million 2016 17 million relating to prepayments.
Trade and other payables presented above excludes 6 million 2016 5 million relating to social security.
Borrowings with a carrying value of 212 million 2016 390 million relate to listed bonds with a fair value of 229 million 2016 409 million according to quoted market prices and are categorised as Level 1 for fair value measurement.
Borrowings with a carrying value of 319 million 2016 277 million relates to US Private Placement Notes with a fair value of 322 million 2016 277 million according to broker dealer quotations and are categorised as Level 3 for fair value measurement.
The remaining borrowings have a fair value measured by discounted estimated cash flows with an applicable market quoted yield and are categorised as Level 2 for fair value measurement.
com 155 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Fair value hierarchy The following tables illustrate the Groups financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value at 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 refer to Note 2 for a description of the three levels of fair value measurement : At 31 March 2017 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 30 30 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 2 2 interest rate swaps 28 15 15 commodity pricing contracts 28 7 1 21 29 Assets at fair value 7 18 51 76 Liabilities at fair value Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 38 38 commodity pricing contracts 28 6 7 3 16 Liabilities at fair value 6 45 3 54 At 31 March 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Notes m m m m Assets at fair value Available-for-sale financial assets 18 23 23 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 5 5 interest rate swaps 28 19 19 commodity pricing contracts 28 1 1 38 40 Assets at fair value 1 25 61 87 Liabilities at fair value Other financial liability within other payables 2 2 Derivative financial instruments: currency swaps 28 19 19 forward foreign exchange contracts 28 1 1 commodity pricing contracts 28 13 4 4 21 Liabilities at fair value 13 24 6 43 During the year the Group reviewed and enhanced its methodology for classifying commodity pricing contracts within the fair value hierarchy.
Prior year numbers have been restated to reflect presentation using this new methodology.
156 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 156 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Financial instruments measured at fair value The following table shows the methodology used to measure Level 3 fair values.
The table isolates the unobservable inputs: however, the full impact on the Groups income statement is described within the price risk management section.
Sensitivity of the fair-value measurement in Type Valuation technique Significant unobservable inputs reasonable changes to inputs 1.
10% increase decrease in the price of Written commodity Based on the Groups own contract assessment of the positions refer to fair the co-products would result in a net value measurement increase decrease in fair value of nil in commodity, supply and demand, as well as section in Note 2. respect of Level 3 financial instruments.
Basis refer to fair value 2.
10% increase decrease in the cost of measurement section in basis would result in a net increase Note 2. decrease in fair value of 2 million in respect of Level 3 financial instruments.
In addition to the above, the Groups available-for-sale financial assets are sensitive to a number of market and non-market factors.
The following table reconciles the movement in the Groups net financial instruments classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy: Commodity pricing Commodity pricing  contracts sale financial Other financial assets liabilities assets liability Total m m m m m At 1 April 2015 37 6 31 2 60 Total gains losses : in operating profit 21 3 6 24 Purchases 4 4 Settlements 32 6 18 44 Transfers between levels 12 1 11 At 31 March 2016 38 4 23 2 55 Total gains losses : in operating profit 21 3 3 21 in other comprehensive income 3 1 2 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements 2 2 Purchases 4 4 Settlements 38 4 2 36 At 31 March 2017 21 3 30 48 Management of financial risk The key financial risks faced by the Group are credit risk, liquidity risk and market risks, which include interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and certain commodity price risks.
The Board regularly reviews these risks and approves written policies covering the use of financial instruments to manage these risks and sets overall risk limits.
The derivative financial instruments approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC to manage financial risks include swaps, both interest rate and currency, swaptions, caps, forward rate agreements, foreign exchange and commodity forward contracts and options, and commodity futures.
The Chief Financial Officer retains overall responsibility for management of financial risk for the Group.
Most of the Groups financing, interest rate and foreign exchange risk are managed through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, whose operations are directed by its board.
Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC arranges funding and manages interest rate, foreign exchange and bank counterparty risks within limits approved by the Board of Tate & Lyle PLC.
Commodity price risks are managed through divisional commodity trading functions in the US and Europe.
These functions are controlled by divisional management who are responsible for ratifying general strategy and overseeing performance on a monthly basis.
The performance of the commodity trading function is monitored against its ability to match the Groups needs for raw materials with purchase contracts, as well as the Groups output of co-products with sales contracts.
Commodity price contracts are categorised as being held either for trading or for hedging price exposures.
The Group applies a limited level of hedge accounting to its economic price exposure hedges.
com 157 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Market risks Foreign exchange management The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risks arising from commercial transactions transaction exposure, and from recognised assets, liabilities and investments in foreign operations translation exposure.
Transaction exposure The Groups policy requires subsidiaries to hedge transactional currency exposures against their functional currency once the transaction is committed or highly probable, mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange contracts, although exceptions can be approved by the Chief Financial Officer.
The amounts deferred in equity from derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are released to the income statement or statement of financial position and offset against the movement in underlying transactions only when the forecast transactions affect the income statement or statement of financial position respectively.
Translation exposure The Group manages the foreign exchange exposure to net investments in overseas operations, particularly in the US and Europe, by borrowing principally in US dollars, which provide a partial match for the Groups major foreign currency assets.
The Group also manages some of its foreign exchange exposure to net investments in foreign operations through the use of currency swap contracts and other liabilities.
The amount deferred in equity from the hedging instruments designated as net investment hedges is offset against the foreign currency translation effect of the net investment in foreign operations, and is released to the income statement upon disposal of those investments.
The following table illustrates only the Groups sensitivity to the fluctuation of the Groups major currencies against sterling on its income statement and other components of equity, assuming that each exchange rate moves in isolation.
The equity impact for foreign exchange sensitivity relates to derivative and non-derivative financial instruments hedging the Groups net investments in its European and US operations.
At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2016 Income Income statement - Equity - statement - Equity - m m m m Sterling US dollar 10% change 31 1 42 Sterling euro 10% change 1 5 5 Interest rate management The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally from changes in US dollar, sterling and euro interest rates.
This risk is managed by fixing or capping portions of debt using interest rate derivatives to achieve a target level of fixed floating rate net debt, which aims to optimise net finance expense and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
The Groups policy is that between 30% and 75% of Group net debt is fixed for more than one year and that no interest rates are fixed for more than 12 years.
At 31 March 2017, the longest term of any fixed rate debt held by the Group was until October 2027 2016 October 2027.
The proportion of net debt managed by the Groups treasury function at 31 March 2017 that was fixed or capped for more than one year was 65% 2016 60%.
The Group considers a 100 basis point change in interest rates a reasonably possible change except where rates are less than 100 basis points.
In these instances it is assumed that the interest rates increase by 100 basis points and decrease to zero for the purpose of performing the sensitivity analysis.
The impact is calculated with reference to the gross debt and cash held as at 31 March 2017 assuming that other variables remain unchanged.
As at 31 March 2017, if interest rates increased by 100 basis points, Group profit before tax would decrease by 2 million 2016 1 million.
If interest rates decreased by 100 basis points, or less where applicable, Group profit before tax would increase by 1 million 2016 1 million increase.
Price risk management The Group participates mainly in four markets: food and beverage: industrial ingredients: pharmaceutical and personal care: and animal feed.
Food and beverage and industrial ingredients are the most significant.
All ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn.
The Group is exposed to movements in the future prices of commodities in those domestic and international markets where the Group buys and sells corn and related co-products and energy for production.
Commodity futures, forwards and options are used where available to hedge inventories and the costs of raw materials for unpriced and prospective contracts not covered by forward product sales.
Some of the contracts are used to hedge co-product pricing, for which there is no active market.
The pricing is established by the Group, based on a number of inputs, as discussed on pages 112 to 113.
Due to the seasonality of corn production, at certain points in time throughout the year, the exposure to commodity pricing contracts may be higher.
As at 31 March 2017, a 50% increase decrease in the price of corn will result in a decrease increase to the income statement of 3 million 2016 nil and related decrease increase in other components of equity of nil 2016 1 million.
158 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 158 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued Credit risk management Counterparty credit risk arises from the placing of deposits and entering into derivative financial instrument contracts with banks and financial institutions, as well as credit exposures inherent within the Groups outstanding receivables.
The Group manages credit risk by entering into financial instrument contracts substantially with investment grade counterparties approved by the Board.
The Board has approved maximum counterparty exposure limits for specified banks and financial institutions based on the longterm credit ratings of Standard & Poors and Moodys.
Trading limits assigned to commercial customers are based on ratings from Dun & Bradstreet and Credit Risk Monitor.
In cases where published financial ratings are not available or inconclusive, credit application, reference checking, and obtaining of customers financial information such as liquidity and turnover ratio, are required to evaluate customers credit worthiness.
Analysis of maximum credit exposure Counterparties positions are monitored on a regular basis to ensure that they are within the approved limits and there are no significant concentrations of credit risks.
The Groups trade receivables are short term in nature and largely comprise amounts receivable from business customers.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited, with our customer base including large, unrelated and internationally dispersed customers.
The Group considers its maximum exposure to credit risk at the year-end date is the carrying value of each class of financial assets as disclosed under financial instruments by category on page 155.
Analysis of amounts set-off The Group does not offset financial assets and liabilities in its statement of financial position as the Group has no intention to net settle, except as described below.
Derivative assets and liabilities of 17 million 2016 19 million could be offset under an enforceable master netting agreement.
Amounts which do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the statement of financial position but could be settled net in certain circumstances principally relate to derivative transactions under International Swaps and Derivatives Association ISDA agreements where each party has the option to settle amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Liquidity risk management The Group manages its exposure to liquidity risk and ensures maximum flexibility in meeting changing business needs by maintaining access to a wide range of funding sources, including capital markets and bank borrowings.
Capital market issues outstanding at 31 March 2017 are listed in Note 25.
At the year end, the Group held cash and cash equivalents of 261 million 2016 317 million and had committed undrawn facilities of 638 million 2016 556 million.
These resources are maintained to provide liquidity back-up and to meet the projected maximum cash outflow from debt repayment, capital expenditure and seasonal working capital needs foreseen for at least a year into the future at any one time.
The Group has a core committed bank facility of US$800 million, of which US$80 million matures in 2020 and US$720 million in 2021.
This facility is unsecured and contains financial covenants for the Group that the interest cover ratio should not be less than 2.5 times and the multiple of net debt to EBITDA, as defined in our financial covenants, should not be greater than 3.5 times.
Refer to Note 4 for the calculation of these measures for financial covenant purposes.
The Group monitors compliance against all its financial obligations and it is Group policy to manage the consolidated statement of financial position so as to operate well within these covenanted restrictions.
In both the current and comparative reporting periods, the Group complied with its financial covenants at all measurement points.
The majority of the Groups borrowings are raised through the Group treasury company, Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC, and are then on-lent to the business units on an arms length basis.
Current Group policy is to ensure that, after taking into account the total of undrawn committed facilities, no more than 10% of gross debt matures within 12 months and at least 35% matures beyond 2.5 years.
At 31 March 2017, after taking account of undrawn committed facilities, the Group was compliant with the policy.
The average maturity of the Groups gross debt was 6.2 years 2016 6.6 years, taking account of undrawn committed facilities.
com 159 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 29.
Financial instruments fair value and risk management continued The table below analyses the undiscounted cash flows related to the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities.
At 31 March 2017 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 79 212 383 Interest on borrowings 26 79 54 Trade and other payables 315 10 Derivative contracts: receipts 107 179 payments 105 206 Commodity pricing contracts 3 1 At 31 March 2016 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Liquidity analysis m m m Borrowings including finance leases 200 208 334 Interest on borrowings 29 82 55 Trade and other payables 337 13 Derivative contracts: receipts 77 197 payments 71 198 Commodity pricing contracts 15 1 Included in borrowings are 2,394,000 of 6.5% cumulative preference shares.
Only one years worth of interest payable on these shares is included in the less than one year category.
Derivative contracts include currency swaps, forward exchange contracts and interest rate swaps.
Commodity pricing contracts included above represent options and futures.
Financial assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than pounds sterling are translated to pounds sterling using yearend exchange rates.
Capital risk management The Groups primary objectives in managing its capital are to safeguard the business as a going concern: to maintain the dividend policy: to maintain sufficient financial flexibility to undertake its investment plans: and to retain an investment grade credit rating which enables access to debt capital markets.
The Groups financial profile and level of financial risk is assessed on a regular basis in the light of changes to the economic conditions, business environment, the Groups business profile and the risk characteristics of its businesses.
Tate & Lyle has contractual relationships with Moodys and Standard & Poors S&P for the provision of credit ratings.
At 31 March 2017, the long-term credit rating from Moodys was Baa2 stable outlook and from S&P was BBB stable outlook.
The Group regards its total capital as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Net debt 27 452 434 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 1 332 1 028 Total capital 1 784 1 462 The Board has set two ongoing key performance indicators KPIs to measure the Groups financial strength.
The target levels for these financial KPIs are that the ratio of net debt EBITDA should not exceed two times and interest cover should exceed five times.
These ratios are calculated on the same basis as the external financial covenants noted above.
The ratios for these KPIs for the financial years ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 were: 2017 2016 Note Times Times Net debt EBITDA 4 0.9 1.2 Interest cover 4 13.9 10.7 160 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 160 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 30.
Retirement benefit obligations a Plan information i Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, principally in the UK and the US.
Generally, the pension benefits provided under these plans are determined based on the pensionable salary and period of pensionable service of the individual members.
Most of the plans are funded and the plan assets held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The extent of the powers of the trustees, in particular in respect of funding and investment strategy, varies and is dependent on local regulations and the rules of each plan.
Payments made by the Group to the plans principally comprise funding contributions agreed with the trustees that are determined in accordance with local regulations to ensure that appropriate funding levels are maintained and funding deficits are eliminated over a reasonable period of time.
All of the significant defined benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants and to future accrual.
The Group operates defined contribution pension plans in a number of countries.
Contributions payable by the Group to these plans during the year amounted to 7 million 2016 4 million.
ii Other benefits The Groups subsidiaries in the US provide unfunded retirement medical plans to the majority of their employees.
Such plans provide financial assistance in meeting various costs including medical, dental and prescription drugs.
Employees are required to contribute to the cost of benefits received under the plans.
The Group meets the remaining costs of providing these benefits in the period in which they are incurred.
b Movement in net defined benefit liability asset i Analysis of net defined benefit liability At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2016 Medical Medical Pensions benefits Total Pensions benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit obligations: Funded plans 1 630 1 630 1 513 1 513 Unfunded plans 63 76 139 55 66 121 1 693 76 1 769 1 568 66 1 634 Fair value of plan assets 1 630 1 630 1 426 1 426 Net deficit 63 76 139 142 66 208 Presented in the statement of financial position as: Retirement benefit surplus 120 120 45 45 Retirement benefit deficit 183 76 259 187 66 253 63 76 139 142 66 208 Net defined benefit liability reconciliation: Medical Pensions benefits Total m m m At 1 April 2015 158 69 227 Year ended 31 March 2016 net decrease in the benefit obligation 124 3 127 net decrease in the fair value of plan assets 108 108 At 31 March 2016 142 66 208 Year ended 31 March 2017 net increase in the benefit obligation 125 10 135 net increase in the fair value of plan assets 204 204 At 31 March 2017 63 76 139 www.
com 161 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued ii Analysis of movements in the benefit obligation Pension benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m At 1 April 2015 1 109 568 15 1 692 69 1 761 Year ended 31 March 2016 Service cost current 1 1 1 2 Service credit past 3 3 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 36 20 56 2 58 Actuarial gains: changes in financial assumptions 21 21 1 22 changes in demographic assumptions 7 7 1 8 experience against assumptions 13 2 15 15 Net actuarial gain 34 9 43 2 45 Benefits paid 50 28 78 4 82 Settlement loss buy-out transaction 2 2 2 Settlements 81 81 81 Currency translation differences 16 16 3 19 Decrease in the benefit obligation 124 124 3 127 At 31 March 2016 985 568 15 1 568 66 1 634 Year ended 31 March 2017 Service cost current 2 2 1 3 Plan administration costs 3 3 3 Interest on benefit obligation 33 23 56 2 58 Actuarial gains losses : changes in financial assumptions 177 16 161 2 163 changes in demographic assumptions 53 10 63 1 64 experience against assumptions 12 19 7 7 Net actuarial loss gain 112 7 105 1 106 Benefits paid 51 69 120 4 124 Settlement gain see Note 7 9 9 9 Re-measurement of non-qualified deferred compensation arrangements see Note 18 2 2 2 Currency translation differences 2 83 1 86 10 96 Increase in the benefit obligation 99 21 5 125 10 135 At 31 March 2017 1 084 589 20 1 693 76 1 769 At 31 March 2017, the benefits expected to be paid by the plans over the next ten years were as follows: Pension benefits Medical UK US Other Total benefits Total m m m m m m Benefit payments: within 12 months 41 34 75 5 80 between 1 to 2 years 42 35 77 5 82 between 3 to 5 years 127 108 235 16 251 between 6 to 10 years 220 182 402 26 428 Total expected benefit payments for the next ten years 430 359 789 52 841 162 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 162 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued In the UK, members can elect to forego a portion of their future pension benefits, in return for a lump sum payment, or a transfer out to other arrangements.
These amounts are excluded from future benefit projections.
The pension benefits paid in respect of US plans, in the 2017 financial year were 35 million higher than those projected for the 2018 financial year, due to the settlement made by some deferred members during the year which resulted in the recognition of a 9 million exceptional gain as detailed in Note 7c.
At 31 March 2017, the weighted average duration of the significant defined benefit obligations was as follows: Duration Pension plans: UK 16 years US 11 years Medical benefits 10 years Assumptions For accounting purposes, the benefit obligation of each plan has been calculated in accordance with IAS 19 based on data gathered for the most recent actuarial valuation and by applying assumptions made by the Group on the advice of independent actuaries.
The principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation were as follows: At 31 March 2017 UK US Inflation rate 2.3 3.3% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% Expected rate of pension increases: deferred pensions 2.3% n a pensions in payment 3.1% n a Discount rate 2.4% 4.0% At 31 March 2016 UK US Inflation rate 2.0 3.0% 2.5% Expected rate of salary increases n a 3.5% Expected rate of pension increases: deferred pensions 2.0% n a pensions in payment 2.8% n a Discount rate 3.4% 3.8% Assumptions regarding future mortality rates of members of the Groups pension plans are based on published statistics and take into account the profile of the plan members.
On this basis, the average life expectancies assumed for members of the plans are as follows: At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2016 UK US UK US Male aged 65 now 21.6 years 20.9 years 22.7 years 21.2 years Male aged 65 in 20 years time 23.7 years 22.5 years 26.6 years 22.9 years Female aged 65 now 23.8 years 22.9 years 23.9 years 23.2 years Female aged 65 in 20 years time 26.1 years 24.5 years 27.0 years 24.9 years Shorter longevity assumptions are used for members who retire on grounds of ill health.
com 163 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Medical benefits Principal assumptions used in calculating the benefit obligation are medical cost inflation and the discount rate applied to the expected benefit payments.
The Group has assumed medical cost inflation at 8.0% per annum 2016 6.0%, grading down to 5% by 2023, and used a discount rate of 3.9% 2016 3.6%.
At 31 March 2017, the sensitivity of the net deficit on the plans to changes in the principal assumptions was as follows assuming in each case that the other assumptions are unchanged : Increase decrease in obligation Change in Increase in Decrease in assumptions - assumption assumption Pension plans Inflation rate 50 bp 62 49 Life expectancy 1 year 71 71 Discount rate 100 bp 220 280 Medical benefits Medical cost inflation 50 bp 3 3 Discount rate 100 bp 7 8 iii Analysis of movements in the plan assets UK US Total m m m At 1 April 2015 1 122 412 1 534 Year ended 31 March 2016 Interest on plan assets 37 15 52 Actual return lower than interest on plan assets 35 17 52 Employers contributions including 2 million related to buy-out transaction 25 13 38 Benefits paid 50 28 78 Settlements 81 81 Currency translation differences 13 13 Decrease in fair value of plan assets 104 4 108 At 31 March 2016 1 018 408 1 426 Year ended 31 March 2017 Interest on plan assets 34 17 51 Actual return higher than interest on plan assets 164 15 179 Employers contributions 22 16 38 Benefits paid 51 69 120 Currency translation differences 56 56 Increase in fair value of plan assets 169 35 204 At 31 March 2017 1 187 443 1 630 164 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 164 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 30.
Retirement benefit obligations continued Analysis of plan assets At 31 March 2017 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 324 110 434 Corporate bonds quoted 138 254 392 Government bonds quoted 385 53 438 Other assets quoted 62 62 Property unquoted 22 22 Insurance policies unquoted 278 4 282 1 187 443 1 630 At 31 March 2016 UK US Total m m m Equities quoted 285 101 386 Corporate bonds quoted 124 234 358 Government bonds quoted 312 49 361 Other assets quoted 31 31 Property unquoted 20 20 Insurance policies unquoted 266 4 270 1 018 408 1 426 The fair value of the insurance policies are deemed to be equivalent to the present value of the related benefit obligation.
The Group also paid an additional 4 million 2016 4 million to the US unfunded retirement medical plans to meet the cost of providing the benefits in the financial year.
Plan assets do not include any direct investments in securities issued by the Group or any property occupied by or other assets used by the Group.
Assets are classified as quoted only if they have a quoted market price in an active market as defined by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All other assets are classified as unquoted.
Where a plan is in surplus, the surplus recognised is limited to the present value of any amounts that the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
The Group considers that it has an unconditional right to the surplus relating to the UK plan as the scheme rules state that any surplus should be returned to the Group in the event that there are no members left in the pension scheme.
c Mitigation of risk The defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to actuarial risks such as interest rate, longevity, inflation and investment risk.
The Group encourages the trustees of the plans to adopt an investment policy that seeks to mitigate these risks, which involves investing a significant proportion of the plan assets in liability-driven investment portfolios that mitigate interest rate, inflation and investment risks.
The Group seeks to ensure that, as far as practicable, the investment portfolios of the funded plans are invested in long-term fixed interest securities with maturities and in currencies that match the expected future benefit payments as they fall due.
In the UK, interest rate derivatives are used to achieve close matching where matching fixed-interest securities are not available in the market.
Most of the inflation risk for the Group arises in the UK since deferred pensions and pensions in payment in the US do not attract inflation increases.
Inflation risk is mitigated by holding index-linked government bonds and corporate bonds and, in the UK, inflation derivatives.
At 31 March 2017, 282 million 2016 270 million of the benefit obligation was matched by qualifying insurance policies that also mitigate longevity risk.
The plans also maintain a portfolio of return-seeking investments, principally in the form of equities and property.
d Funding of the plans As required by local regulations, actuarial valuations of the US pension plans are carried out each year and those of the UK pension plans are carried out at least every three years.
During the year, the actuarial valuation at 31 March 2016 of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme Scheme was concluded with core funding contributions remaining at 12 million per year.
The secured funding account established under the previous actuarial valuation will continue to receive supplementary contributions of 6 million per year until March 2023, payable to the trustees on certain triggering events such as under performance of the Schemes investments or a deterioration in the strength of the Groups financial covenant.
The Group will continue to fund the UK plan administration costs.
During the year the Amylum UK Pension Scheme was formally wound up.
This followed the final settlement of 2 million in the prior year included in discontinued operations.
During the year ending 31 March 2018, the Group expects to contribute approximately 39 million to its defined benefit pension plans and to pay approximately 5 million in relation to retirement medical benefits.
com 165 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 31.
Share-based payments The Company operates share-based incentive arrangements for the executive directors, senior executives and other eligible employees under which awards and options are granted over the Companys ordinary shares.
All of the arrangements under which awards and options were outstanding during the 2017 and 2016 financial years are classified as equity-settled.
During the year, the compensation expense recognised in profit or loss in respect of share-based incentives was 21 million 2016 9 million.
The following arrangements existed during the period: a Performance Share Plan The Groups principal ongoing share-based incentive arrangement is the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Participation in the PSP is restricted to the executive directors and other senior executives.
Awards made under the PSP normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment until the end of the performance period, and subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The conditions applicable to PSP awards made from 1 April 2016 relate to the achievement of the Group adjusted return on capital employed ROCE and adjusted profit targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations reaching specified levels at the end of the performance period.
Up to 25% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth in the Groups adjusted profit before tax with the remaining 25% from compound annual growth of the Speciality Food Ingredients business adjusted operating profit excluding SPLENDA Sucralose.
The conditions applicable to PSP awards made prior to 31 March 2016 relate to the achievement of earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE targets.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the compound annual growth rate of the Groups adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reaching specified levels over the performance period.
The performance period is the period of three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is granted.
b Group Bonus Plan deferred element Bonuses earned under the Group Bonus Plan are normally paid in cash up to 100% of the base salary of the participating executive.
Any excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares that are released after two years subject to the executive remaining in the Groups employment.
During the vesting period, payments in lieu of dividends are made in relation to the deferred shares.
c Sharesave Plan Options are granted from time to time under the Companys Sharesave Plan, which is open to all employees in the UK.
It offers eligible employees the option to buy shares in the Company after a period of three or five years funded from the proceeds of a savings contract to which they contribute on a monthly basis.
The exercise price reflects a discount to market value of up to 20%.
d Restricted Share Awards The Company has made Restricted Share Awards to a number of eligible employees.
Awards made normally vest provided the participant remains in the Groups employment during the performance period and other conditions, specific to the individual awards, are met.
e Conditional Share Award During the year, the Company has made a Conditional Share Award CSA to eligible employees.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on an adjusted Group profit after tax on continuing operations for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Up to 50% of each award vests dependent on the Groups adjusted ROCE from continuing operations as at 31 March 2017.
The award vests as soon as practicable after 31 March 2017, however, some employees are subject to an additional retention period ending 31 March 2018.
The vesting level of the awards may be reduced in other circumstances specified at award.
Further information for these awards made in relation to executive directors a, b and c only are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 97.
Movements in the year Movements in the awards outstanding during the year were as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted average Weighted average Awards exercise price Awards exercise price number pence number pence Outstanding at 1 April 10 607 961 10p 9 895 482 10p Granted 5 875 352 6p 5 264 964 8p Exercised 1 209 949 10p 2 020 143 3p Lapsed 2 837 872 5p 2 532 342 10p Outstanding at 31 March 12 435 492 10p 10 607 961 10p Exercisable at 31 March 603 939 3p 548 530 The weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the dates on which awards were exercised during the year was 684p 2016 529p.
166 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 166 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 31.
Share-based payments continued Awards granted in the year During the year, PSP awards were granted over 4,177,420 shares 2016 3,502,180 shares, no Restricted Share Awards were granted 2016 166,367 shares, Conditional Share Awards were granted over 1,474,000 shares 2016 1,515,000 shares, the deferred element of Group Bonus Plan awards were granted over 161,503 shares 2016 nil and Sharesave options were granted over 62,429 shares 2016 81,417 shares.
The compensation expense recognised in relation to these awards is based on the fair value of the awards at their respective grant dates.
The weighted average fair values of the awards granted during the year and the principal assumptions made in measuring those fair values were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 PSP Sharesave CSA PSP Sharesave CSA Fair value at grant date 662p 102p 582p 540p 119p 467p Principal assumptions: Share price on grant date 722p 667p 621p 591p 608p 504p Expected life of the awards 3 years 3.3 5.3 0.9 1.9 3 years 3.3 5.3 0.9 1.9 years years years years Risk-free interest rate 0.37% 1.01% 0.76% 1.40% Dividend yield on the Companys shares 3.87% 4.20% 4.51% 4.61% 4.74% 5.56% Volatility of the Companys shares n a 25% n a n a 25% n a In addition, deferred shares issued under the Group Bonus Plan during the year have an expected life of 2.0 years with a fair value at the grant date of 614p.
No deferred shares were issued under the Group Bonus Plan during the prior year.
The fair value of the awards was measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula, taking into account factors such as non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
Expected volatility was based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys shares over the expected life of the awards.
Awards outstanding at the end of the year The range of exercise prices and the weighted average remaining contractual life of the awards outstanding at the end of the year were as follows: At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2016 Weighted average Weighted average Awards contractual life Awards contractual life Exercise price number months number months Nil 12 207 008 44.9 10 396 563 45.4 400p to 799p 228 484 32.1 211 398 35.3 Total 12 435 492 44.7 10 607 961 45.2 www.
com 167 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 32.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Provisions Insurance provisions and Restructuring and reserves closure provisions Other provisions Total m m m m At 1 April 2015 7 1 13 21 Year ended 31 March 2016 Provided in the year 3 13 6 22 Released in the year 1 1 Utilised in the year 9 9 Exchange and other movements 2 1 3 At 31 March 2016 12 14 10 36 Year ended 31 March 2017 Provided in the year 1 3 3 7 Released in the year 1 1 2 Utilised in the year 5 14 19 Exchange and other movements 2 1 2 5 At 31 March 2017 9 3 15 27 At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Provisions are expected to be utilised as follows: within one year 10 23 after more than one year 17 13 Total 27 36 Provisions primarily relate to Group legal matters and previously disposed businesses, restructuring and closure provisions relating to restructuring within the Group and insurance funds representing amounts provided by the Groups captive insurance subsidiary in respect of the expected level of insurance claims.
All provisions are expected to be utilised within five years.
The difference between the carrying value and the discounted present value was not material in either year.
Contingent liabilities Passaic River The Group remains subject to a legal case arising from the notification in 2007 by the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency USEPA that Tate & Lyle, along with approximately 70 others, is a potentially responsible party PRP for a 17 mile section of the northern New Jersey Passaic River, a major Superfund site.
In March 2016, the USEPA issued its Record of Decision ROD on the likely cost for the remediation of the lower eight mile section of the river the most contaminated.
Whilst Tate & Lyle will continue to vigorously defend itself in this matter, in light of the publication of the ROD, the Group took an exceptional charge of 6 million in the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Group continues to be unable to estimate a reasonably possible range of loss in respect of the remaining nine mile section of the river and therefore has not recognised a provision in this regard.
Other claims The Group is subject to claims and litigation generally arising in the ordinary course of its business, some of which are for substantial amounts.
All such actions are strenuously defended but provision is made for liabilities that are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
While there is always uncertainty as to the outcome of any claim or litigation, it is not expected that claims and litigation existing at 31 March 2017 will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
168 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 168 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 33.
Commitments Capital commitments At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Commitments for the purchase of intangible assets 1 Commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment 25 47 Total 25 48 In addition, commitments in respect of retirement benefit obligations are detailed in Note 30.
Operating lease arrangements Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its land, buildings, plant and equipment.
Certain operating lease agreements allow for renewal at the end of the original term at the option of the Group.
At the year-end date, the Group has outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases which fall due as follows: At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Within one year 34 28 Between one year and five years 116 106 After five years 168 169 Total 318 303 34.
Acquisitions and disposals Completion of Moroccan disposal On 1 June 2016, the Group completed the sale of its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco to ADM, receiving gross cash proceeds of 4 million, 3 million net after cash disposed.
The investment had previously been classified as held for sale at 31 March 2016.
The Group recognised an operating exceptional impairment charge of 4 million in the year ended 31 March 2016, aligning book value with expected proceeds after allowing for working capital and cash extracted from the business before completion.
In the current financial year, the Group recognised a 1 million exceptional gain resulting from the recycling of cumulative foreign exchange translation gains from reserves to the income statement upon disposal of the subsidiary.
During the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group recognised an exceptional tax charge of 5 million within discontinued operations in respect of historical tax matters in Morocco.
Completion of Howbetter disposal On 23 December 2016, the Group completed the disposal of Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd, its Food Systems subsidiary in China, recognising a 7 million operating exceptional charge within other expenses in respect of impairing and deconsolidating the entity prior to disposal, and associated costs see Note 7.
Eaststarch re-alignment Update in current financial year During the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group concluded its purchase price allocation in respect of the acquisition of the remaining 50% of the plant in Slovakia, Amylum Slovakia s. r. o. subsequently renamed Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o..
The Group recognised a 1 million increase to the provisional goodwill that was recognised at 31 March 2016 following a re-measurement of net assets acquired.
Eaststarch re-alignment made during the year ended 31 March 2016 On 31 October 2015, the Group completed the re-alignment of its Eaststarch joint venture with ADM.
Under the re-alignment, the Group disposed of the predominantly bulk ingredients plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary and acquired the remaining 50% interest in the more speciality food ingredients focused plant in Slovakia not already owned by the Group.
The Group received net cash consideration of 173 million 240 million at closing.
Although the cash consideration was received as a single net amount, IFRS required this consideration to be grossed-up to determine the cash effectively paid to acquire the 50% interest in the Slovakia business and the cash received for the disposal of the Groups interests in the plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary.
In addition, as the acquisition of the Slovakian business was a step acquisition, the Groups existing interest in this plant was required to be re-measured to its fair value, which was then included as a component of the consideration paid for the acquisition.
This gross-up of the net cash consideration was done at fair value.
The result was that consideration of 112 million 156 million was deemed to be paid for the acquired business, comprising 56 million 78 million of cash consideration and 56 million 78 million for the fair value of the Groups existing interest in Slovakia.
Each of the components of the Eaststarch re-alignment, comprising the acquisition accounting for the Slovakia business, the gain on re-measurement of the Groups existing interest in that plant and the disposal of the plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary, are set out on pages 170 and 171. www.
com 169 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 34.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Acquisition of Amylum Slovakia s. r. o.
As noted on the previous page, as part of the re-alignment of the Eaststarch joint venture, the Group acquired the remaining 50% of the more speciality focused plant in Slovakia, Amylum Slovakia s. r. o. and subsequently renamed it Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o.
Total consideration in respect of the Slovakian acquisition was 115 million.
The fair value of identifiable net assets acquired was 80 million, resulting in provisional goodwill as at 31 March 2016 of 35 million which was not deductible for tax purposes.
The plant in Slovakia provides a solid base from which to grow the Groups Speciality Food Ingredients business in Europe and an opportunity to increase production at the plant over time.
Provisional goodwill of 35 million primarily represented the premium paid to acquire an established business with a proven workforce and growth potential in the speciality food ingredients market.
At the same time, two long-term distribution agreements were also put in place under which the Group distributes crystalline fructose, a speciality sweetener, produced by ADM in Turkey and ADM acts as exclusive distributor for bulk ingredients, produced in the Groups Slovakia and Netherlands facilities.
The acquired business in Slovakia contributed sales of 52 million and an operating profit of 2 million for the period from acquisition on 31 October 2015 until the end of the 2016 financial year including the amortisation of acquired intangibles recognised from the acquisition.
Had the business been acquired at the beginning of the 2016 financial year, it would have contributed sales of 130 million and an operating profit of 5 million in the 2016 financial year.
Acquisition related costs were recognised as part of the overall Eaststarch re-alignment transaction costs within exceptional items and in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statement of cash flows.
The following tables provide a summary of the acquisition accounting: 2016 m Consideration 56 Non cash consideration fair value of existing interest in Slovakian joint venture 56 Purchase price adjustments 3 Total consideration 115 Less: fair value of net assets acquired 80 Provisional goodwill 35 Cash flows: Total consideration including purchase price adjustments 59 Less: net cash and working capital adjustments 5 Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired 54 The fair value of net assets acquired is comprised as follows: Book value on Fair value acquisition adjustments 2016 m m m Intangible assets customer relationships 20 million, distribution agreement 9 million 29 29 Property, plant and equipment 48 1 47 Inventories 9 9 Trade and other receivables 9 9 Cash and cash equivalents 6 6 Trade and other payables 10 10 Tax liabilities deferred tax liability 6 million 4 6 10 Net assets on acquisition 58 22 80 Subsequently amended in the year ended 31 March 2017: see Eaststarch re-alignment earlier in this note.
170 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 170 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 34.
Acquisitions and disposals continued Disposals made during the year ended 31 March 2016 As a result of the Eaststarch re-alignment the Group exited the predominantly bulk ingredient plants in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary.
The re-alignment of the Groups interest in Eaststarch resulted in a gain on re-measurement disposal of 73 million.
50% Other Eaststarch Interest in Slovakia plants 2016 Note m m m Consideration 56 229 285 Purchase price adjustments 2 11 13 Total consideration 58 240 298 Total assets disposed 52 133 185 Foreign exchange recycled from other comprehensive income 34 34 Disposal cost 1 5 6 Gain on re-measurement disposal reported within exceptional items 7 5 68 73 Cash flows: Disposal of joint ventures 240 Transaction costs within exceptional cash flow 4 Net cash inflow on disposals 236 Exceptional gain on re-measurement disposal reported as follows: 2016 Note m Re-measurement of interest in Slovakia continuing operations 7 5 Disposal of other Eaststarch joint ventures discontinued operations 7 68 Total gain on re-measurement disposal exceptional items 73 35.
Events after the balance sheet date There were no post balance sheet events requiring disclosure in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017. www.
com 171 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 36.
Related party disclosure Identity of related parties The Group has related party relationships with its joint ventures and associates, the Groups pension schemes and with key management, being its Directors and executive officers.
No related party transaction with close family members of the Groups key management occurred in the current or comparative year.
Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates Transactions entered into by the Company, Tate & Lyle PLC, with subsidiaries and between subsidiaries as well as the resultant balances of receivables and payables are eliminated on consolidation and are not required to be disclosed.
Transactions and balances with and between joint ventures are as shown below.
There are no such transactions with associates.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group disposed of, and therefore ceased to have related party transactions with two of its subsidiaries.
The Group disposed of its equity interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd. its Food Systems business in China.
The Group also completed the disposal of its interest in its corn wet mill in Casablanca, Morocco.
There were no other material changes in related parties or in the nature of related party transactions during the year.
Further details can be found in Note 34.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group re-aligned its Eaststarch joint venture and therefore ceased to have related party transactions with it.
Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 m m Sales of goods and services to joint ventures 133 137 Purchases of goods and services from joint ventures 132 At 31 March 2017 2016 m m Receivables due from joint ventures 24 12 Payables due to joint ventures The Group had no material related party transactions containing unusual commercial terms in the current or prior year.
Key management compensation is disclosed in Note 10.
There were no other related party transactions with key management.
Currency exchange rates The principal exchange rates used to translate the results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of the Groups foreign operations into pounds sterling were as follows: Year ended 31 March 2017 2016 Average rate 1 1 US dollar 1.30 1.51 Euro 1.19 1.37 At 31 March 2017 2016 1 1 Year-end rate US dollar 1.25 1.44 Euro 1.17 1.26 172 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 172 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates 1 Subsidiaries based in the United Kingdom Percentage of Percentage of preference ordinary shares shares attributable to attributable to Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Astaxanthin Manufacturing Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Cesalpinia UK Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom G. C. Hahn and Company Limited Blending 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Hahntech International Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Harvey Steel Sugars Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Histonpark Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Robinson Milling Systems Tewkesbury Dormant 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Limited T. L. S. S. Pension Nominees Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Export Holdings Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Group Services Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Holdings Americas Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Holdings Limited Dormant 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Industrial Holdings Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Industries Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle International Finance PLC In-house treasury 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom company Tate & Lyle Investments Gulf States Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Limited Tate & Lyle Investments America Limited Holding company 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Investments Brazil Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Investments Limited Holding company 100 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle L. P. Investment 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware partnership 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Overseas Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Pension Trust Limited Pension company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Share Shop Limited Dormant 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle Technology Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom 2 Tate & Lyle UK Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Ventures II LP Investment 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom partnership 2 Tate & Lyle Ventures Limited Holding company 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom Tate & Lyle Ventures LP Investment 100 1 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AT, United Kingdom partnership 1 Registered in England and Wales, except Tate & Lyle L. P. which is registered in Delaware, USA.
2 Direct subsidiaries of Tate & Lyle PLC.
com 173 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas Percentage of Percentage of preference Country of ordinary shares shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address 1 Argentina Tate & Lyle Argentina SA SFI distribution and sales 100 San Martn 140, 14th Floor, support City of Buenos Aires, Argentina Australia Tate & Lyle ANZ Pty Limited Food Systems production and 100 Building 2, 1425 Boundary SFI distribution Road, Wacol QLD 4076, Australia Belgium Tate & Lyle Services Internal service provider and 100 Industrielaan 4 box 10 1, 9320 2 Belgium N. V. sales support Aalst, Belgium Bermuda Tate & Lyle Management & Reinsurance 100 Canon's Court, 22 Victoria Finance Limited Street, Hamilton, Bermuda 1 Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil S. A. Citric acid production and SFI 100 Santa Rosa do Viterbo, State distribution of So Paulo, Fazenda Amlia, So Paulo, 14270-000, Brazil G. C. Hahn & Co. do Brasil Dormant 100 Rua Sapetuba N 211, CEP:- Estabilizantes e Tecnologia 005510-001- Vila Pirajussara, 1 para Alimentos Ltda.
Estado fide So Paulo, Brazil Tate & Lyle Brasil Holdings Holding company 100 Rodovia Santa Rosa Cajuru, 1 LTDA Km 6, Fazenda Amalia, Santa Rosa fide Viterbo, Sao Paulo, 14270-000, Brazil Tate & Lyle Gemacom Tech Food Systems production and 90 No.
380, Distrito Industrial, 1 Indstria e Comrcio S. A. support City of Juiz fide Fora, State of Minas Gerais at Rua B, 36092- 050, Brazil Canada Tate & Lyle Ingredients SFI sales support 100 Suite 400, Phoenix Square, 371 Canada Limited Queen Street, Fredericton NB E3B 1B1, Canada Chile Tate & Lyle Chile SFI distribution and sales 100 Isidora Goyenechea 2800, Piso Commercial Ltda support 43, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile China Tate & Lyle Trading SFI distribution and sales 100 Room 201, 2F, XingLian 1 Shanghai Co. Ltd support Scientific Research, Building 2, 1535 Hong Mei Road, Shanghai, 200233, China G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Food Systems sales 100 Room 201, 2F, XingLian Stabiliser Business Scientific Research, Building 1 Shanghai Ltd 2, 1535 Hong Mei Road, Shanghai, 200233, China Tate & Lyle Food Ingredients Polydextrose production 100 New & Hi-Tech Industrial 1 Nantong Company Limited Development District, Rudong county, Nantong city, China 226400 1 Colombia Tate & Lyle Colombia S. A. S. SFI distribution and sales 100 Calle 11 #100-121 Off 309, support Cali, Colombia Croatia G. C. Hahn & Co. d. o. o. Za Food Systems sales 100 Donji Banovec 15, Koprivnica, distribuciju stabilizacionih 48000, Croatia sistema Czech G. C. Hahn & Co. stabilizacni Food Systems sales 100 Ostravsk 169, 339 01 Klatovy Republic technika, s. r. o. IV, Czech Republic Egypt Tate & Lyle Egypt LLC Dormant 100 87 Street 9, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt France G. C. Hahn & Cie. SARL Food Systems sales 100 113 Chemin fide Ronde Croissy III - Batiment 3, 78290, Croissy-Sur-Seine, France 174 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 174 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference Country of ordinary shares shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Tate & Lyle Ingredients Research and development 100 2 Avenue fide L'Horizon, 59650 France S. A. S. centre and SFI sales support Villeneuve-D'Ascq, France Germany G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Systems research and 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31,  development and SFI sales 23556, Lbeck, Germany GmbH support G. C. Hahn & Co. Holding company 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31,  23556, Lbeck, Germany mbH HAHN International GmbH Dormant 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31, 23556, Lbeck, Germany HL Handelskontor GmbH Dormant 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31, 23556, Lbeck, Germany Tate & Lyle Germany GmbH SFI sales support 100 Roggenhorster Strasse 31, 23556, Lbeck, Germany Gibraltar Tate & Lyle Insurance Reinsurance 100 Suite 913, Europort, Gibraltar Gibraltar Limited Greece Tate & Lyle Greece A. E. SFI sales support 95 54248 Thessaloniki, K. Papadaki 69, Greece India Tate & Lyle Investments Dormant 100 C-367, Defense Colony, New India Private Ltd Delhi, 110 024, India Israel Tate & Lyle Israel Limited Dormant 100 16 Hatidhar st Ra'annana, Raanana, 4088, Israel Gamtal Foods Ltd Dormant 65 7 Anatot, Tel Aviv Jaffa, 6908007, Israel Italy Tate & Lyle Italia S. P. A.
Food Systems production and 100 Via Verdi, 1-Ossona, Milano, SFI sales support Italy Japan Tate & Lyle Japan KK SFI distribution 100 2F Oak Minami-Azabu Building, 3-19-23 Minami-Azabu, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Lithuania UAB G. C. Hahn & Co. Food Systems sales 100 E. Simkunaites Str.
10, Vilnius, LT04130, Lithuania Mexico Tate & Lyle Mxico, S. fide SFI distribution and sales 100 Insurgentes Sur 863, Piso 12, 1 R. L. fide C. V. support Colonia Npoles, 03810, Mxico 1 Mexama, S. A. fide C. V. Dormant 65 Calle lago fide tequesquitengo, No 111 Col. Cuahutemoc C. P. 62430, Morelos, Mxico 1 Talo Services Internal service provider 100 Insurgentes Sur 863, Piso 12, Colonia Npoles, 03810, D. F, Mxico Morocco T&L Casablanca S. A. R. L. SFI sales support 100 22, Rue du Parc, Casa Thtre Centre, Anfa, Casablanca, Morocco Netherlands Nederlandse Glucose Holding company 100 100 1541 KA, Kong aan fide Zaan, Industrie B. V. Lage dijk 5, The Netherlands Tate & Lyle Netherlands BI and SFI production 100 1541 KA, Kong aan fide Zaan, B. V. Lage dijk 5, The Netherlands Poland G. C. Hahn & Co. Technika Dormant 100 ul.
Bagienna 1 Chyby k. stabilizowania Sp.
z o. o. Poznania, 62-081, Przezmierowo, Poland www.
com 175 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference Country of ordinary shares shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Tate & Lyle Global Internal service provider 100 Sterlinga 8A, 91425, d, Poland Shared Services Sp.
z o. o. Tate & Lyle Poland SFI sales support 100 Sterlinga 8A, 91425, d, Poland Sp.
1 Russian Tate & Lyle CIS LLC Food Systems sales 100 Leninskaya Sloboda, 26, Area 2, Room Federation 100, 115280, Moscow, Russian Federation Singapore Tate & Lyle Asia Pacific SFI sales and ASPAC 100 3 Biopolis Drive, #05-11 Synapse, Pte.
Ltd. regional head office Singapore 138623 Tate & Lyle Singapore Sucralose production 100 One Marina Boulevard #28-00 Pte Ltd now decommissioned Singapore 018989 Tate & Lyle Singapore Holding company 100 One Marina Boulevard #28-00 Holdings Pte Ltd Singapore 018989 Slovakia Tate & Lyle Boleraz s. r. o. BI and SFI production 100 Boleraz 114, 91908 Boleraz, Slovakia Tate & Lyle Slovakia, Internal service provider 100 Boleraz 114, 91908 Boleraz, Slovakia s. r. o.
South Africa Tate and Lyle South Food Systems production 100 1 Gravel Drive, Kya Sands Business Africa Proprietary and SFI distribution Park, Kya Sands, 2163, South Africa Limited Spain G. C. Hahn Estabilizantes Food Systems sales 100 Av.
Valencia, 15, 46171, Casinos y Tecnologia para Valencia, Spain Alimentos Ebromyl S. L. Dormant 100 Paseo Independencia, 6- PLT 3, 50004, Zaragoza, Zaragoza, Spain Talan Iberica SA Dormant 100 28 Raimundo Fernndez Villaverde, 28003, Madrid, Spain Sweden Tate & Lyle Sweden AB Oat protein and Beta 100 lvsvgen 1, 610 20, Kimstad, Sweden Glucan production Turkey Tate and Lyle Turkey SFI sales support 100 Esentepe Mah.
193 Gda Hizmetleri Anonim Plaza Kat: 2 193 235A14 ili, stanbul, irketi Turkey 1 Ukraine PII G. C. Hahn & Co. Kiev Food Systems sales 100 Mala Olexandriwka, Zentralna-Str.
2-B, Borispol, 08320KIEW, UKRAINE United Arab Tate & Lyle DMCC Food Systems and SFI 100 Cluster X, Tower X3, Office n. 3805.
Emirates sales support Jumeira Lake Towers, Dubai, United Arab Emirates USA Staley Holdings LLC Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Custom Food Systems production 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Ingredients LLC Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Finance LLC In-house finance 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States TLHUS, Inc. Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Ingredients BI and SFI production 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Americas LLC Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Sucralose Sucralose production 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, LLC Delaware 19801, United States TLI Holding LLC In-house finance 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Domestic Internal service provider 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, International Delaware 19801, United States Sales Corporation 176 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 176 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION 38.
Full listing of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued Subsidiaries operating overseas continued Percentage of Percentage of preference Country of ordinary shares shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Tate & Lyle Grain, Inc.
Grain products 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Malic Acid Dormant 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Sugar Holding company 100 1209 North Orange Street, Holdings, Inc. Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Americas Internal service provider 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Tate & Lyle Citric Acid Citric acid production 100 1209 North Orange Street, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States Staley International Inc. Cereal sweeteners and 100 208 So.
LaSalle Street, Suite 814, starches Chicago, IL 560604, United States G. C. Hahn USA LLC Dormant 100 1209 North Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
Joint ventures Percentage of preference Percentage of shares Country of ordinary shares attributable to incorporation attributable to Company Type of business Registered address or registration Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Mexico Almidones Mexicanos BI and SFI production 50 Calle 26 No.
2756, Zona Industrial, 1 SA Guadalajara, Jal.
44940, Mexico Promotora fide Productos BI and SFI production 50 Calle 26 No.
2756, Zona Industrial, y Mercados Mexicanos, Guadalajara, Jal.
44940, Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Netherlands Eastern Sugar B. V. Holding company 50 Zwanebloem 31, 4823 MV Breda, The Netherlands USA DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Industrial ingredients 50 1209 North Orange Street, Products Company, LLC Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States 1 Non-coterminous year-end.
Associates Percentage of Percentage of preference Country of ordinary shares shares incorporation attributable to attributable to or registration Company Type of business Tate & Lyle PLC Tate & Lyle PLC Registered address Thailand Tapioca Development Starch production 33.3 8th floor Thai Wah Tower 1, 21 19 1 Corporation South Sathorn Rd.
Tungmahamek, Sathorn, Bangkok 10120, Thailand 1 Direct associate of Tate & Lyle PLC.
The results, assets and liabilities and cash flows of those entities whose financial years are not coterminous with that of the Group are consolidated or equity accounted in the Groups financial statements on the basis of management accounts for the year to 31 March.
