Global Operations Delivering operational excellence Global Operations is responsible for the delivery of high-quality Customer service, raw material sourcing products to our customers across the world.
It ensures the and sustainability efficient and cost effective operation of our manufacturing Global Operations provides customer service operations for assets, and that our ingredients reach customers on time, in both business divisions.
It operates regional customer service full and to a high quality.
Through the application of process functions with dedicated teams managing customer technologies and continuous improvement programmes, communications from order receipt to delivery.
Global Operations drives cost and production efficiencies to ensure we remain cost competitive in the markets in which Corn is our largest raw material input.
manages corn procurement and the elevator network of storage facilities in the US to manage the cost effectiveness Safety and security of our corn supply.
While operating the production facilities as efficiently as we can, Global Operations is also Global Operations is responsible for the global safety focused on managing our impact on the environment and the programme, details of which can be found on pages 44 to 46. communities in which we operate.
Global manufacturing Continuous Improvement Global Operations manages our principal manufacturing A dedicated Continuous Improvement team is in place to lead assets.
In the US these include four major corn wet mills, three productivity and efficiency projects across our manufacturing of which are in the mid-west and one in Tennessee.
In Europe, and broader supply chain network.
we operate two corn wet mills, in the Netherlands and in Slovakia.
All our corn wet mills make both speciality food ingredients and bulk ingredients.
Other key sites include our SPLENDA Sucralose facility in the US, and our citric acid plants in the US and Brazil.
Smaller manufacturing sites include an oat-based fibres facility in Sweden and a polydextrose fibre facility in China.
As well as serving domestic US markets, our US corn wet mills are also the main source of products sold in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Global supply chain Global Operations manages the storage, transportation and delivery of products from our plants to our customers.
Global supply and demand planning processes are in place, supported by demand data from our global IS IT system, including a common process for gathering a robust demand signal from the global business.
Demand planning resources are based in each region in which Speciality Food Ingredients operates.
The regional output provided, in a common format, is assessed The new co-generation plant, a natural gas-fired combined against our supply capabilities allowing us to make faster, heat and power system, at our corn wet milling facility in better-quality decisions.
Two examples of projects completed by Global Operations during the year Loudon co-generation SPLENDA Sucralose production In the third quarter of the 2017 financial year, a new, natural In the first half of the year, following completion of the gas-fired combined heat and power system was project to consolidate production of SPLENDA Sucralose commissioned at our corn wet mill in Loudon, Tennessee.
at one site, the facility in McIntosh, Alabama was brought This new system, a US$60 million investment, will up to planned production levels earlier than expected, significantly improve energy and operational efficiency at enabling security inventory levels to be reduced quicker the facility, and also substantially reduce greenhouse gas than originally planned.
32 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017
