Audited financial statements S ignicant accounting policies Reporting entity 3i Group plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Consolidated financial statements the Group accounts for the year to 31 March 2017 comprise the financial statements of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries collectively, the Group.
The Group accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with section 395 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its Company statement of comprehensive income and related Notes.
A number of accounting policies are disclosed below, but where possible, they have been shown as part of the Note to which they specically relate in order to assist the readers understanding.
A Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Group and Company accounts have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with all relevant IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, and interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, endorsed by the European Union EU.
The following standards, amendments and interpretations have been issued with implementation dates, subject to EU endorsement in some cases, which do not impact on these financial statements: Effective for annual periods beginning on or after IAS 7 Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows 1 January 2017 IFRS 9 Financial instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 The impact of future standards and amendments on the financial statements is being assessed by the Group and the Company.
The Group does not anticipate that IFRS 9 and IFRS 16 will have a material impact on its results.
The detailed assessment of the extent to which IFRS 15 may affect the carried interest receivable recognition in the Groups financial statements is ongoing.
B Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis as disclosed in the Directors report and presented to the nearest million.
C Basis of consolidation i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control, as dened by IFRS 10, is achieved when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which the Group effectively obtains control.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
3i Group plc is an investment entity and, as such, does not consolidate the investment entities it controls.
Most of the Groups interests in subsidiaries are recognised at fair value through profit or loss.
Those subsidiaries which provide investment related services, such as advisory, management or employment services, are not classied at fair value through profit and loss and continue to be consolidated unless they are deemed investment entities, in which case they are fair valued.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Under the acquisition method of accounting, with some limited exceptions, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net assets acquired.
Acquisition related costs are accounted for as expenses when incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over net assets is capitalised as goodwill.
All intra-group balances, transactions, income and expenses are eliminated upon consolidation.
108 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried in the Consolidated statement of financial position atfair value even though the Group may have significant inuence over those companies.
iii Composition of the Group The Group comprises several different types of subsidiaries.
The Group re-assesses the function performed by each type of subsidiary to determine its treatment under the IFRS 10 exception from consolidation on an annual basis.
The types of subsidiaries and their treatment under IFRS 10 are as follows: General Partners GPs Consolidated General Partners provide investment management services and do not hold any direct investments in portfolio assets.
These entities are not investment entities.
Investment managers advisers Consolidated These entities provide investment related services through the provision of investment management or advice.
They do not hold any direct investments in portfolio assets.
Holding companies of investment managers advisers Consolidated These entities provide investment related services through their subsidiaries.
Typically they do not hold any direct investment inportfolio assets and these entities are not investment entities.
Limited Partnerships and other intermediate investment holding structures Fair valued The Group makes investments in portfolio assets through its ultimate parent company as well as through other limited partnerships and corporate subsidiaries which the Group has created to align the interests of the investment teams with the performance of the assets through the use of various carried interest schemes.
The purpose of these limited partnerships and corporate holding vehicles, many of which also provide investment related services, is to invest for investment income and capital appreciation.
These partnerships meet the denition of an investment entity and are classied at fair value through profit and loss.
Portfolio investments Fair valued Under IFRS 10, the test for accounting subsidiaries takes wider factors of control as well as actual equity ownership into account.
In accordance with the investment entity exception, these entities have been held at fair value with movements in fair value being recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Structured entities Fair valued The Group has retained interests in a number of unconsolidated structured entities, being CLO equity investments, and their current carrying value and a description is included in Note 29.
D Critical accounting estimates and judgements The reported results of the Group are sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its financial statements.
UK company law and IFRS require the Directors, in preparing the Groups financial statements, to select suitable accounting policies, apply them consistently and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
The Groups estimates and assumptions are based on historical experience and expectation of future events and are reviewed periodically.
The actual outcome may be materially different from that anticipated.
The judgements, assumptions and estimates involved in the Groups accounting policies that are considered by the Board to be the most important to the portrayal of its financial condition are the following: a The fair valuation of the investment portfolio The investment portfolio is held at fair value.
Given the importance of this area, the Board has a separate Valuations Committee to review the valuations policies, process and application to individual investments.
A report on the activities of the Valuations Committee is included in the Governance section of the Annual report.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 109 Audited financial statements S ignicant accounting policies continued b Assessment as an investment entity Entities that meet the denition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to account for most investments in controlled entities, as well as investments in associates and joint ventures, at fair value through profit and loss.
The Board has concluded that the Company continues to meet the denition of an investment entity as its strategic objective ofinvesting in portfolio investments and providing investment management services to investors for the purpose of generating returnsin the form of investment income and capital appreciation remains unchanged.
The Group is required to determine the degree of control or inuence the Group exercises and the form of any control to ensure that the financial treatment is accurate.
Further detail on our review of our application of IFRS 10 can be found in the Reconciliation of Investment basis to IFRS section.
c Valuation of the dened benefit schemes The Group also considers the valuation of the dened benefit schemes in accordance with IAS 19 to be a significant estimate.
The Group reviews its assumptions annually with its independent actuaries.
E Other accounting policies a Revenue recognition Gross investment return is equivalent to revenue for the purposes of IAS 1.
It represents the overall increase in net assets from the investment portfolio net of deal-related costs and includes foreign exchange movements in respect of the investment portfolio.
Investment income is analysed into the following components: I. Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration received less any directly attributable costs, on the sale of equity and the repayment of interest income from investment portfolio, and its carrying value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal.
Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of fair value assessment.
Fair value movements on investment entity subsidiaries are the movements in the fair value of Group subsidiaries which are classied as investment entities under IFRS 10.
The Group makes investments in portfolio assets through these entities which are usually limited partnerships or corporate subsidiaries.
Portfolio income is that portion of income that is directly related to the return from individual investments.
It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be economic benefit and the income can be reliably measured.
The following specic recognition criteria in accordance with IAS 18 must be met before the income is recognised: Dividends from equity investments are recognised in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Income received on the investment in the most junior ranked level of CLO capital is recognised as a dividend.
26 million was received in the year 2016: 31 million from continuing and discontinued operations.
Interest income from investment portfolio is recognised as it accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash ows through the expected life of the financial asset to the assets carrying value.
When the fair value of an investment is assessed to be below the principal value of a loan the Group recognises a provision against any interest accrued from the date of the assessment going forward until the investment is assessed to have recovered in value.
Income received on the instruments in the most junior level of CLO capital is recognised as a dividend as detailed above.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Fees that are earned on a nancing arrangement are considered to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through profit or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing service to the investee company are recognised as that service is provided.
V. Foreign exchange on investments arises on investments made in currencies that are different from the functional currency of the Group entity.
Investments are translated at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each subsequent reporting date investments are translated to sterling at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
110 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation b Foreign currency translation For the Company and those subsidiaries whose balance sheets are denominated in sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentational currency, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into sterling at the average rates of exchange over the year and exchange differences arising are taken to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
The statements of financial position of subsidiaries and associates denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the closing rates.
The statements of comprehensive income for these subsidiaries and associates are translated at the average rates and exchange differences arising are taken to other comprehensive income.
Such exchange differences are reclassied to the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income in the period in which the subsidiary or associate is disposed of.
Exchange movements in relation to forward foreign exchange contracts are included within exchange movements in the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, where appropriate.
No forward foreign exchange contracts were held in the current year and in2016 a 14 million loss was recognised in exchange movements.
c Treasury assets and liabilities Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term treasury liabilities are used in order to manage cash ows and minimise the overall costs of borrowing.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank, short-term deposits and amounts held in money market funds, which are readily convertible into cash and there is an insignicant risk of changes in value.
Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
fide-recognition occurs when rights to cash ows from a financial asset expire, or when a liability is extinguished.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 111
