Portfolio and otherinformation Glossary Alternative Investment Funds AIFs At 31 March 2017, Capital redemption reserve is established in respect of the 3iInvestments plc as AIFM, managed five AIFs.
redemption of the Companys ordinary shares.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM is the regulated Capital reserve recognises all profits that are capital in nature manager of AIFs.
Within 3i, this is 3i Investments plc.
or have been allocated to capital.
Following changes to the Companies Act, the Company amended its Articles of Approved Investment Trust Company This is a particular UK Association at the 2012 Annual General Meeting to allow these tax status maintained by 3i Group plc, the parent company profits to be distributable by way of a dividend.
An approved investment trust company is a UK company which meets certain conditions set out in the UK tax Carried interest is accrued on the realised and unrealised rules which include a requirement for the company to undertake profits generated taking relevant performance hurdles into portfolio investment activity that aims to spread investment consideration, assuming all investments were realised at the risk and for the companys shares to be listed on an approved prevailing book value.
Carried interest is only actually paid or exchange.
The approved status for an investment trust must received when the relevant performance hurdles are met and be agreed by the UK tax authorities and its benefit is that certain theaccrual is discounted to reect expected payment periods.
profits of the company, principally its capital profits, are not Carried interest receivable is generated on third-party capital taxable in the UK.
over the life of the relevant fund when relevant performance Assets under management AUM A measure of the total criteria are met.
assets that 3i has to invest or manages on behalf of shareholders Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO A form of securitisation and third-party investors for which it receives a fee.
AUM is where payments from multiple loans are pooled together and measured at fair value.
The measurement changed in the year passed on to different classes of owners in various tranches.
from residual value to fair value to reect the scale of 3is business and, in the absence of a third-party fund in Private Equity, it is not Common Reporting Standard CRS imposes obligations on a measure of fee generating capability.
financial groups and entities to identify and report details, relating to the foreign investors investing in such groups and entities, Base Erosion and profit Shifting BEPS Project is an OECD tothe local tax authority who then exchange the information initiative that was launched in 2013, at the request of the G20 withthe other relevant tax authorities.
countries, to develop specic, detailed proposals, rules and instruments required to equip governments and tax authorities Company 3i Group plc.
to address the BEPS challenge and the proposals were Country by Country reporting CbC Reporting refers to a delivered to and approved by the G20 leaders in November requirement for large multinational groups, operating in different 2015.
Countries are now in the process of considering and countries, to le an annual report detailing certain information implementing changes to their domestic tax laws and about the activities of the entities in the Group, on a country by international tax treaties to give effect to the recommendations country basis, covering the countries in which the Group entities made by the BEPS project team.
This new requirement applies to the Group for its Board The Board of Directors of the Company.
accounting periods beginning after 1 April 2016.
162 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Portfolio and otherinformation Discounting The reduction in present value at a given date of Fees receivable from external funds are fees received by the a future cash transaction at an assumed rate, using a discount Group, from third parties, for the management of Private Equity factor reecting the time value of money.
Disposal Group is comprised of the assets and liabilities Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA is US tax associated with the Groups Debt Management business sold legislation aimed at preventing offshore tax avoidance by US toInvestcorp in March 2017. persons.
The rules impose obligations on non-US financial groups and entities to identify and report details relating to US investors Dividend income from equity investments and CLO capital is who have invested in those groups and entities.
recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Foreign exchange on investments arises on investments made in currencies that are different from the functional currency of EBITDA is dened as earnings before interest, taxation, the Group entity.
Investments are translated at the exchange depreciation and amortisation and is used as the typical measure rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
At each subsequent of portfolio company performance.
reporting date investments are translated to sterling at the EBITDA multiple Calculated as the enterprise value over EBITDA, exchange rate ruling at that date.
it is used to determine the value of a company.
Gross investment return GIR includes profit and loss Executive Committee The Executive Committee is responsible on realisations, increases and decreases in the value of the for the day-to-day running of the Group and comprises: the Chief investments we hold at the end of a period, any income Executive, Group Finance Director, the Managing Partners of receivedfrom the investments such as interest, dividends the Private Equity and Infrastructure businesses and the Groups andfeeincome and foreign exchange movements.
measured as apercentage of the opening portfolio value.
Interest income from investment portfolio is recognised as Fair value movements on investment entity subsidiaries The it accrues.
When the fair value of an investment is assessed movement in the carrying value of Group subsidiaries, classied tobe below the principal value of a loan the Group recognises as investment entities under IFRS 10, between the start and a provision against any interest accrued from the date of the end of the accounting period converted into sterling using the assessment going forward until the investment is assessed exchange rates at the date of the movement.
Fair value through profit or loss FVTPL is an IFRS measurement basis permitted for assets and liabilities which International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are meet certain criteria.
Gains and losses on assets and liabilities accounting standards issued by the International Accounting measured as FVTPL are recognised directly in the Statement Standards Board IASB.
The Groups consolidated financial ofcomprehensive income.
statements are required to be prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Fee income is earned directly from investee companies when an Investment basis Accounts prepared assuming that IFRS investment is first made and through the life of the investment.
Under this basis, we fair value Fees that are earned on a nancing arrangement are considered portfolio companies at the level we believe provides the most to relate to a financial asset measured at fair value through comprehensive financial information.
profit or loss and are recognised when that investment is made.
The commentary in the Strategic report refers to this basis Fees that are earned on the basis of providing an ongoing as we believe it provides a more understandable view of service to the investee company are recognised as that service our performance.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 163 Portfolio and otherinformation Glossary continued Key Performance Indicators KPI is a measure by reference to Revenue reserve recognises all profits that are revenue in nature which the development, performance or position of the Group or have been allocated to revenue.
Segmental reporting Operating segments are reported in Money multiple is calculated as the cumulative distributions plus a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to any residual value divided by paid-in capital.
the Chief Executive who is considered to be the Groups chief operating decision maker.
All transactions between business Net asset value NAV is a measure of the fair value of segments are conducted on an arms length basis, with intraour proprietary investments and the net costs of operating segment revenue and costs being eliminated on consolidation.
Income and expenses directly associated with each segment areincluded in determining business segment performance.
Operating cash profit is the difference between our cash income consisting of portfolio interest received, portfolio dividends Share-based payment reserve is a reserve to recognise received, portfolio fees received and fees received from external those amounts in retained earnings in respect of sharefunds as per the Investment basis Cash ow statement and based payments.
our operating expenses as per the Investment basis cash ow statement.
Total return comprises operating profit less tax charge less movement in actuarial valuation of the historic dened benefit Operating profit includes gross investment return, management pension scheme.
fee income generated from managing external funds, the costs ofrunning our business, net interest payable, movements in the Total shareholder return TSR is the measure of the overall fair value of derivatives, other losses and carried interest.
return to shareholders and includes the movement in the share price and any dividends paid, assuming that all dividends are Portfolio income is that which is directly related to the return reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
It is recognised to the extent that itisprobable that there will be economic benefit and the income Translation reserve comprises all exchange differences can be reliably measured.
It is comprised of dividend income, arising from the translation of the financial statements of interest income from investment portfolio and fee income.
Proprietary Capital Shareholders capital which is available to Unrealised profits or losses on the revaluation of investments invest to generate profits.
The movement in the carrying value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period converted into sterling Public Private Partnership PPP is a government service using the exchange rates at the date of the movement.
or private business venture which is funded and operated through a partnership of government and one or more private Value weighted earnings growth The growth in the last 12-month sector companies.
earnings, when comparing to the preceding 12 months.
Realised profits or losses over value on the disposal of investments The difference between the fair value of the consideration received, less any directly attributable costs, onthe sale of equity and the repayment of interest income frominvestment portfolio and its carrying value at the start of theaccounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates at the date of disposal.
164 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Designed and produced by RadleyYeldar www.
com This report was printed by Pureprint Group ISO 14001 usingtheir environmental print technology which A pattern of control for an environmental minimises the negative environmental impacts of management system against which an the printing process.
Vegetable-based inks were organisation can beaccredited byathird party.
used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled.
This report is printed on Revive 50 Silk, an  stock made with ECF Elemental Chlorine Free pure cellulose.
This paper is FSC certied and contains 50% recycled material.
Natural Capital Partners The CO emissions associated with the 2 FSC Forest Stewardship Council production and distribution of our Annualreport This ensures that there is an audited chain and accounts 2016 have beenmeasured and ofcustody from the tree in thewell-managed reduced to net zero through veried carbon forest through to the nisheddocument in the offset projects 100%renewable energy projects.
3i Group plc Registered ofce: 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD, UK Registered in England No.
1142830 An investment company as dened by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 Coastline by Cheryl Ann Williams Original painting in acrylic on canvas.
3i Group plc 16 Palace Street, London SW1E 5JD, UK Telephone 44 0 20 7975 3131 THR27381 Register online To receive shareholder communications electronically, includingreports and notices of meetings, please register at www.
com investor-relations Sign up for 3i news To be kept up-to-date with 3is latest financial news andpressreleases, sign up for alerts at www.
