104 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Glossary AGM is Annual General Meeting.
Clinical Commissioning Groups Earnings per Ordinary Share from CCGs are the groups of GPs and Continuing Operations EPS is Average Debt Maturity is each other healthcare professionals that took the profit attributable to equity holders tranche of Group debt multiplied by over commissioning of primary and of the parent divided by the weighted theremaining period to its maturity secondary healthcare from PCTs in average number of shares in issue andthe result divided by total Group England with effect 1 April 2013. during the period.
debt in issue at the year end.
European Public Real Estate Average Interest Rate is the Group Association EPRA is the industry loan interest and derivative costs per Consumer Price Index CPI is body for European REITs.
EPRA is a annum at the year end, divided by total anofficial measure of the general level registered trade mark of the European Group debt in issue at the year end.
of inflation as reflected in the weighted Public Real Estate Association.
average of prices of a basket of BPF is the British Property Federation consumer goods and services such EPRA Net Asset Value EPRA which is the membership organisation, astransportation, food, clothing, etc.
NAV is the balance sheet net assets and the voice, of the UK real estate CPI is commonly calculated on a excluding own shares held, mark to industry.
market derivative financial instruments including associates and deferred Building Research Establishment Debt Service Cover is the number of taxation.
Environmental Assessment Method times net interest payable plus debt BREEAM assesses the amortisation is covered by underlying EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV sustainability of buildings against profit before net interest.
adjusted to reflect the fair value of arange of criteria.
Direct Property Costs comprise Code is the UK Corporate Governance ground rents payable under head Equivalent Yield true and nominal Code 2014, a full copy of which is leases, void costs, other direct is a weighted average of the Net Initial available on the website of the Financial irrecoverable property expenses, Yield and Reversionary Yield and Reporting Council.
rentreview fees and valuation fees.
represents the return a property will produce based upon the timing of the District Valuer DV is the District income received.
The true equivalent Valuer Service being the commercial yield assumes rents are received arm of the Valuation Office Agency quarterly in advance.
It provides professional equivalent assumes rents are property advice across the public receivedannually in arrears.
sector and in respect of primary healthcare represents NHS bodies on Estimated Rental Value ERV matters of valuation, rent reviews and isthe external valuers opinion as to initial rents on new developments.
theopen market rent which, on the dateof valuation, could reasonably beexpected to be obtained on a new letting or rent review of a property.
Gross Rental Income is the gross accounting rent receivable.
Group is Assura plc and its subsidiaries.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 105 IFRS is International Financial Mark to Market is the difference Property Income Distribution ReportingStandards as adopted between the book value of anasset PID is the required distribution of bytheEuropean Union.
orliability and its market value.
income as dividends under the REIT regime.
It is calculated as 90% of Interest Cover is the number of times NAV is Net Asset Value.
net interest payable is covered by EPRA earnings before net interest.
Net Initial Yield NIY is the PSP is Performance Share Plan.
annualised rents generated by an asset, Interest Rate Swap is a contract to after the deduction of an estimate of Real Estate Investment Trust exchange fixed payments for floating annual recurring irrecoverable property REIT is a listed property company payments linked to an interest rate, and outgoings, expressed as a percentage which qualifies for and has elected into is generally used to manage exposure of the asset valuation after notional a tax regime which exempts qualifying to fluctuations in interest rates.
Development UK profits, arising from property rental properties are not included.
income and gains on investment IPD is Investment Property Databank property disposals, from corporation Limited which provides performance Net Rental Income is the rental tax, but requires the distribution of analysis for most typesofreal estate income receivable in the period after aPID.
and produces anindependent payment of direct property costs.
rental income is quoted on an Rent Reviews take place at intervals accounting basis.
agreed in the lease typically every three IPD Healthcare Index is Investment years and their purpose is usually to Property Databanks UK Annual NHS Property Services Limited adjust the rent to the current market Healthcare Property Index.
NHS PropCo is the company, level at the review date.
wholly owned and funded by the IPD Total Return is calculated as the Department of Health, which, as of 1 Rent Roll is the passing rent being the change in capital value, less any capital April 2013, has taken on all property total of all the contracted rents reserved expenditure incurred, plus net income, obligations formerly borne by the PCTs.
expressed as a percentage of capital employed over the period, as calculated Primary Care Property is the Retail Price Index RPI is an official by IPD.
property occupied by health services measure of the general level of inflation providers who act as the principal point as reflected in the retail price of a KPI is Key Performance Indicators.
of consultation for patients such as GP basket of goods and services such as practices, dental practices, community energy, food, petrol, housing, Loan to Value LTV is the ratio pharmacies and high street household goods, travelling fares, etc.
ofnet debt to the total value of optometrists.
RPI is commonly computed on a propertyassets.
London Interbank Offered Rate Reversionary Yield is the anticipated LIBOR is the interest rate charged yield, which the initial yield will rise to by one bank to another for lending once the rent reaches the ERV and money.
when the property is fully let.
It is calculated by dividing the ERV by thevaluation.
106 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Glossary continued RPI Linked Leases are those leases Total Shareholder Return TSR which have rent reviews which are isthe combination of dividends paid to linked to changes in the RPI.
shareholders and the net movement inthe share price during the year.
It Sustainability and Transformation iscalculated as the movement in Plans STPs are 44 regional theshare price for the period plus proposals to improve health and care in thedividends paid, divided by the that area.
Total Accounting Return is the overall VCP is Value Creation Plan.
return generated by the Group including the impact of debt.
It is calculated as Weighted Average Unexpired Lease the movement on EPRA NAV for the Term WAULT is the average lease year plus the dividends paid, divided term remaining to first break, or expiry, bythe opening EPRA NAV.
across the portfolio weighted by contracted rental income.
Total Property Return is the overall return generated by properties on a Yield on cost is the estimated annual debt free basis.
It is calculated as the rent of a completed development net rental income generated by the divided by the total cost of development portfolio plus the change in market including site value and finance costs values, divided by opening property expressed as a percentage return.
Yield shift is a movement usually expressed in basis points in the yield of a property asset or like-for-like portfolio over a given period.
Yield compression is a commonly used term for a reduction in yields.
