Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies A1.1 Basis of consolidation The financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together with the Groups share of the results and net assets of its interests in joint arrangements and associates.
Where necessary to ensure consistency, the accounting policies of the subsidiaries, joint arrangements or associates have been adjusted to align to the accounting policies of the Group.
Intra-Group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from Intra-Group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from transactions with joint arrangements and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in the entity.
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries that is not attributable, either directly or indirectly, to SSE plc shareholders.
Subsidiaries Note 4.2 iii, Accompanying information A3 Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group or the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity in order to obtain variable returns from its activities.
In assessing control, potentialvoting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries acquired are consolidated in the financial statements of the Group from the date that control commences until the date control ceases.
Transactionswith non-controlling interests that relate to their ownership interests and do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions.
Interests in joint arrangements and associates Note 4.2 iii, Note 16 and Accompanying information A3 Joint arrangements, as defined by IFRS 11, are those arrangements that convey to two or more parties joint control.
Joint control exists when decisions about the relevant activities, being the financial, operational or strategic policies of the arrangement, are made with the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The Groups investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the investors contractual rights and obligations.
Associates are those investments over which the Group has significant influence but neither control nor joint control.
The Groups interests in its joint operations are accounted for by recognising its share of the assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses of the operation.
In these arrangements, the Groups share of the revenue will be eliminated as it relates to its purchased share of the output from the arrangement.
The Groups joint ventures and associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting where the joint venture and associate investments are carried at historical cost plus the Groups share of post-acquisition results, less any impairment in value.
The Group recognises its share of the results of these equity-accounted operations after tax and interest in the income statement.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Groups presentational currency.
Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items included in the financial statements of each entity are measured accordingly.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any gain or loss arising on the restatement of such items is taken to the income statement with the exception of exchange gains or losses on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity or exchange gains or losses incurred as part of a qualifying cash flow hedge which are transferred to the translation reserve to the extent the hedge is effective.
Non-monetary assets that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated at the historic rate at the date of transaction.
For the purpose of presenting the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated into pounds sterling at the balance sheet closing rate.
The results of these operations are translated at the average rate in the relevant period.
Exchange differences on retranslation of the opening net assets and the results of foreign operations are transferred to the translation reserve and are reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
A1.2 Significant accounting policies Revenue Note 5 Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits from the provision of goods and services in the normal course of business will flow to the Group, and that the revenue can be reliably measured.
Revenue principally comprises energy generation and related trading, supply of energy, use of electricity networks, production of gas, gas storage facility services, construction contracts, contracted services and sale of goods.
Revenue from energy generation and related trading comprises power generated during the year including related physical energy and commodity trades to optimise generation plant performance.
Revenue from energy generation is recognised as generated and supplied during the year.
Revenue from optimisation trades in physical and financial energy and commodity contracts is recognised gross in the income statement.
Revenue on the supply of energy comprises sales to retail end-user customers based on actual energy consumption including an estimate of the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last meter reading and the year end.
Details of the estimation process for the value of electricity and gas supplied to customers is given within Note 4.1 ii.
159 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Revenue from use of electricity networks is derived from the allowed revenue as defined by the parameters in the relevant electricity distribution or transmission licence regulations, which informs the tariffs we set.
Electricity distribution revenue recognised is based on the volume of electricity distributed and the set customer tariff.
Where this revenue differs from the allowed revenue, there may be an overor under-recovery of revenue which will be reflected in future financial years allowed revenue as set out in the regulatory licence and relevant industry codes.
No accounting adjustment is made for over-or under-recoveries in the year that they arise.
Electricity transmission revenue is determined in accordance with its regulatory licence, is subject to approval of the industry regulator Ofgem and is charged to National Grid.
As with Electricity Distribution revenue, any revenue adjustments assessed by Ofgem are reflected in future financial years allowed revenue.
Revenue from the production of natural gas, crude oil and condensates arises from the Groups interest in various joint ventures and associates and is based on the entitlement method: whereby the Groups share of interest and production sharing terms are used to determine the allocation of production to each party in the arrangement.
Revenue is recognised when title passes to the customer, with any short-term imbalances between cumulative production entitlement and cumulative sales known as overlift and underlift recognised at the balance sheet date as a payable or receivable measured at market value.
Gas storage facilities revenues are recognised evenly over the contract period, whilst revenues for the injection and withdrawal of gas are recognised at the point of gas flowing into or out of the storage facilities.
Where the outcome of a construction contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is normally measured as the proportion of cost incurred on work performed to date compared to the estimated total contract cost, except where this would not be representative of the stage of completion.
Variations in contract work, claims and incentive payments are included to the extent that they have been agreed with the customer.
When it becomes probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately in the income statement.
Where the Group has an ongoing obligation to provide contracted services, revenues are recognised as the service is performed with amounts billed in advance or arrears treated as either deferred income or accrued income and excluded from current revenue.
Where a contract includes capital works and ongoing services such as for network connections activity, revenue is recognised upon completion of the associated capital works where there is either no ongoing service obligation or where any future service obligations are clearly separable.
Revenue from fixed-fee service contracts is recognised over the life of the contract, in relation to the benefit received by the customer.
Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed, along with the risks and rewards of ownership, to the customer.
Finance income and costs Note 9 Finance income comprises interest receivable on funds invested in short-term deposits and the Groups interests in jointly controlled entities and associates and from interest rate derivative receipts.
Finance costs comprise interest payable on borrowings and finance leases, the release of discounting on provisions, interest on net pension scheme liabilities, interest rate derivative payments and accretion of the debt component on the convertible loan less capitalised interest.
Interest on the funding attributable to major capital projects is capitalised during the years of construction and depreciated as part of the total cost over the useful life of the asset.
Interest income and costs are recognised in the income statement as they accrue, on an effective interest method.
The issue costs and interest payable on bonds and all other interest payable and receivable is reflected in the income statement on the same basis.
Taxation Note 10 Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Taxation is recognised in the income statement unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: goodwill not deductible for tax purposes, the initial recognition of assets or liabilities other than in business combinations that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same tax authority and where the Group intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Business combinations Note 12 The acquisition of subsidiaries, and joint operations that meet the definition of a business, is accounted for under the acquisition method as defined by IFRS 3.
The cost of acquisition is measured as being the aggregate fair value of consideration to be transferred at the date control is obtained.
Contingent consideration is classified as a liability and subsequently re-measured through the income statement.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred.
Held for sale assets and liabilities Note 12 Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their recoverable value is likely to be recovered via a sale opposed to continued use by the Group.
In order to be classified as non-current assets held for sale, assets must meet all of the following conditions: the sale is highly probable, it is available for immediate sale, it is being actively marketed and the sale is likely to occur within one year.
Non-current assets determined as held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, no depreciation is charged in respect of these assets after classification as held for sale.
Intangible assets Note 13 Goodwill and impairment testing Goodwill arising on a business combination represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary, associate or joint venture at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least on an annual basis.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated on initial recognition to those cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the combinations synergies.
The cash-generating units used for goodwill impairment testing purposes will represent how goodwill was attributed but may not represent reportable business segments.
Goodwill may also arise upon investments in joint arrangements and associates.
Goodwill arising on a joint operation is recorded as a separate asset and any impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Goodwill arising on a joint venture or associate is recorded within the carrying amount of the Groups investment and any impairment loss is included within the share of result from joint ventures and associates.
On disposal or closure of a previously acquired investment or business, any attributed goodwill will be included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Research and development Expenditure on research activities is charged to the income statement as incurred.
Expenditure on development activities, whereby research findings are applied to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products or processes, is capitalised if the product or process is considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Group intends to complete the product or process for use or for sale.
Allowances and emissions The European Emissions trading scheme EU ETS has been in operation since 1 January 2005.
The IASB withdrew IFRIC 3 Emission Rights inJune 2005 and it has not been replaced with definitive guidance or interpretation for CO carbon emissions trading.
Carbon allowances 2 purchased are recorded at cost within intangible assets.
A liability is recognised based on the level of emissions recorded.
Up to the level of allowances held, the liability is measured at the cost of purchase.
When the carbon emission liability exceeds the carbon allowances held, the net liability is measured at market value selling price.
Movements in the market value of the liability are recognised in operating profit.
Forward carbon contracts are measured at fair value with gains or losses arising on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
The carbon allowance intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period to the extent requested reflecting the consumption of the economic benefit and is recorded as being utilised.
As a result, no amortisation is booked but an impairment charge may be recognised should the carrying value of allowances exceed market or fair value.
Under the Renewable Obligations Certificates ROCs scheme, certificates obtained from own generation are awarded by a third party, Ofgem.
Self-generated certificates are recorded at market value and purchased certificates are recognised at cost, both within intangible assets.
The liability under the renewables obligation is recognised based on electricity supplied to customers, the percentages set by Ofgem and the prevailing market price.
The intangible asset is surrendered at the end of the compliance period reflecting the consumption of economic benefit.
As a result no amortisation is recorded during the period.
161 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Development assets Costs capitalised as development intangibles represent the costs incurred in bringing individual projects to the consented stage.
These include wind farm developments, thermal generation and gas storage projects, prospective gas production assets and other developments relating to proven technologies.
Costs associated with reaching the consent stage include options over land rights, planning application costs and environmental impact studies.
These may be costs incurred directly or part of the fair value exercise on acquisition of an interest in a project.
The asset is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis.
At the point that the project reaches the consent stage and is approved by the Board, the carrying value of the project is transferred to property, plant and equipment as assets under construction.
Once in operation, depreciation will be charged over the expected useful life of the asset.
The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that have been acquired separately by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Expenditure on internally generated brands or customer lists are expensed as incurred.
Expenditure on internally developed software assets and application software licences includes contractors fees and directly attributable labour and overheads.
Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these assets.
The amortisation periods utilised are as follows: Years Brands 10 Customer lists Shorter of contract term or 5 Developed software assets and application software licences 5-10 The useful lives of all the intangible assets are reviewed annually and amended, as required, on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets are derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from their use.
Property, plant and equipment Note 14 Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.
The cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour and other directly attributable costs.
Where the asset is a qualifying asset, for which a considerable period of time is required to prepare the asset for use or sale, borrowing costs will be capitalised as part of the assets cost.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment comprises major components having different useful lives, the components are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment, and depreciated accordingly.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Leased assets Leases where the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as part of the property, plant and equipment of the Group at the fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly against income unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalised as part of the asset cost.
Hydro civil assets The Group is obliged under the Reservoirs Act 1975 to maintain its hydro infrastructure network, including its dams, tunnels and other hydro civil engineering structures hydro civil assets.
All items of property, plant and equipment within hydro civil assets, with the exception of land, are subject to depreciation.
In accordance with the transition provisions of IFRS 1, the Group identified the carrying value of these assets at privatisation and has treated this value as deemed cost.
Following this assessment, the assets, and all subsequent enhancement and replacement expenditure, has been subject to depreciation over a useful economic life of 100 years.
All subsequent maintenance expenditure is chargeable directly to the income statement.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Depreciation Depreciation is charged to the income statement to write off cost, less residual values, on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives with the exception of Gas Production Assets which are depreciated on the Units of Production basis.
Heritable and freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation policy, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually, for all asset classes to ensure that the current method is the most appropriate.
Depreciation commences following the asset commissioning period and when the asset is available for commercial operation.
The estimated useful lives for assets depreciated on a straight line basis are as follows: Years Wholesale specific assets Hydro civil assets 100 Thermal and hydro power stations including electrical and mechanical assets 20 to 60 Operating wind farms 20 to 25 Gas storage facilities 25 to 50 E&P common infrastructure assets 25 to 50 Networks specific assets Overhead lines, underground cables and other network assets 40 to 80 Other transmission and distribution buildings, plant and equipment 10 to 45 Group wide assets Office buildings 30 to 40 Fixtures, IT assets, vehicles and mobile plant 3 to 10 Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
Subsequent expenditure It is the Group policy to capitalise qualifying replacement expenditure and depreciate it over the expected useful life of the replaced asset.
Replaced assets are derecognised at this point and the costs recorded as costs of disposal.
Where an item of property, plant and equipment is replaced and it is not practicable to determine the carrying amount of the replaced part, the cost of the replacement adjusted for inflation will be used as an approximation of the cost of the replaced part at the time it was acquired or constructed.
Expenditure incurred to replace a component of an item of property, plant and equipment that is accounted for separately is capitalised.
Other subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits of the item of property, plant and equipment to which it relates.
Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred.
Derecognition An item of property, plant or equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset.
Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds received with the carrying amount of the asset and are included in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on derecognition of the asset is included in the income statement in the period of derecognition.
Exploration, evaluation and production assets Notes 13 and 14 The Group uses the successful efforts method of accounting for exploration and evaluation expenditure associated with exploration wells or prospects.
This expenditure will be capitalised initially within intangible assets and will include licence acquisition costs associated with the prospects.
Upon recognition of proved and probable reserves and internal approval for development, the relevant expenditure will be transferred to property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a unit of production basis.
If the prospects are determined to be unsuccessful, and no future activity is planned, the intangible asset will be expensed in the period in which that determination is made.
All field development costs, including rights and concessions related to production activities, are capitalised as property, plant and equipment.
Capitalised costs relate to the acquisition and installation of production assets and facilities and include specialist engineering, drilling and technical services costs.
These property, plant and equipment assets are depreciated from the commencement of production in the fields concerned, using the unit of production method, based on the estimated proven and probable reserves of those fields.
Changes in these estimates are dealt with prospectively.
All common infrastructure costs, such as production facilities or pipelines that are common to more than one field, are depreciated on a straight line basis, reflecting their shared usage unrelated to the production of any one field.
All exploration and production assets are reviewed annually for indicators of impairment.
Where indicators of impairment are identified, the carrying value of the field assets are compared with the expected discounted future net cash flows associated with the remaining estimated commercial reserves.
An impairment loss will be recognised where it is considered that recorded amounts are unlikely to be fully recovered from the net present value of future net cash flows.
163 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Leases Notes 14 and 25 The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is dependent on whether the arrangement relates to use and control of a specific asset.
Leases are classified as finance leases if the arrangement transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are categorised as operating leases.
Finance lease obligations Assets held under finance leases are capitalised and held as part of property, plant and equipment.
The accounting policy for such arrangements is described on page 162.
Operating lease obligations Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the income statement as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Impairment review Note 15 The carrying amounts of the Groups PP&E and other intangible assets and the Groups investments in joint ventures and associates, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
For PP&E assets that have previously been identified as exhibiting indications of impairment, the review of impairment will be performed annually until there is sufficient evidence to confirm that any potential impairment loss has been appropriately recognised.
For goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite life or which are not yet ready for use, the test for impairment is carried out annually.
In addition, financial assets measured at amortised cost are also reviewed for impairment annually.
For assets subject to impairment testing, the assets carrying value is compared to the assets or cash-generating unit CGU s, in the case of goodwill, recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is determined to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell FVLCS and the value-in-use VIU of the asset or CGU.
For financial assets measured at amortised cost the impairment is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
If the carrying amount of the asset or CGU exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised immediately in the income statement and, in relation to the impairment of goodwill, will not be subsequently reversed.
Value in use VIU calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective assets or CGUs and the selection of an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value.
The VIU methodology is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate economic value and is deemed to be the most appropriate for reviews of PP&E asset and the Groups identified goodwill-related CGUs.
The methodology is based on the pre-tax cash flows arising from the specific assets, underlying assets or CGUs, and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the Groups cost of funding and adjusted for any specific risks.
The estimation of the timing and value of underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management judgement.
Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets.
The fair value less costs to sell methodology also uses a present value technique, unless there is a quoted price in an active market for that asset.
The methodology is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the specific assets, underlying assets or CGUs, and discounted using a post-tax discount rate determined in the same manner as the rates used in the VIU calculations, adjusted for the relevant taxation rate.
For goodwill, the impairment charge will initially be adjusted against the goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit.
Thereafter, the remaining assets of the cash-generating unit will be written-down proportionately.
Impairments of other intangible or PP&E assets will only reversed only if there has been a significant increase in the recoverable amount associated with the asset.
Impairments of Goodwill are not written back.
Inventories and work in progress Note 17 Inventories are valued at the lower of cost on a first-in, first-out basis and net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and selling expenses.
The cost of fuel stocks is based on the weighted average principle.
The valuation of work in progress is based on the direct costs of labour, contractors, materials plus other directly attributable overheads.
Provisions Note 20 A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued Decommissioning The estimated cost of decommissioning at the end of the useful lives of certain assets is reviewed periodically.
Provision is made for the net present value of the estimated cost of decommissioning gas production facilities at the end of the producing lives of fields, and gas storage facilities, offshore wind farms and power stations at the end of the useful life of the facilities.
The estimates are based on technology and prices at the balance sheet date.
A corresponding decommissioning asset is recognised and is included within property, plant and equipment when the provision gives access to future economic benefits.
Changes in these provisions are recognised prospectively.
The unwinding of the discount on the provision is included in finance costs and the depreciation for the asset is straight-line over the expected useful life of the asset or, for gas production facilities, is amortised on the unit of production method.
Employee benefit obligations Note 23 Defined benefit pension schemes The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes, one of which is operated by the Company.
Pension scheme assets are measured using bid market values.
Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the projected unit credit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the Groups defined benefit pension schemes expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged as service costs to operating profit.
Net interest costs are based on net schemes liabilities adjusted for minimum funding requirement and pension surplus restrictions under IFRIC 14.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Defined contribution pension schemes The Group also operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in independently administered funds.
The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in the year and are charged directly to the income statement.
Equity and equity-related compensation benefits The Group operates a number of employee share schemes as described in the Remuneration Report.
These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the Company.
The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant.
The fair value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the scheme vests.
Estimates are updated for non-market conditions at each balance sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and prior years being recognised in the income statement.
The costs associated with the other main employee schemes are recognised over the period to which they relate.
The charge related to the equity shares in the Company awarded under the share schemes is treated as an increase in the cost of investment held by the Company in the subsidiary companies of the Group.
Following an assessment of the Groups disclosures, the disclosures on equity and equity-related compensation benefits have been removed in the current year on the grounds of materiality in relation to the Group.
Financial instruments Note 24 The Group uses a range of financial instruments to hedge exposures to financial risks, such as interest rate, foreign exchange and energy price fluctuations in its normal course of business and in accordance with the Groups risk management policies.
The Groups risk management policies are further explained in A6.
Interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives Financial derivative instruments are used by the Group to hedge interest rate and currency exposures.
All such derivatives are recognised at fair value and are re-measured to fair value each reporting period.
Certain derivative financial instruments are designated as being held for hedging purposes.
The designation of the hedge relationship is established at the inception of the hedge and procedures are applied to ensure the derivative is highly effective in achieving its objective and that the effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured.
The treatment of gains and losses on re-measurement is dependent on the classification of the hedge and whether the hedge relationship is designated as either a fair value or cash flow hedge.
Derivatives that are not designated as hedges are treated as if held for trading, with all fair value movements being recorded through the income statement.
A derivative classified as a fair value hedge recognises gains and losses from re-measurement immediately in the income statement.
Loans and borrowings are measured at cost except where they form the underlying transaction in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
In such cases, the carrying value of the loan or borrowing is adjusted to reflect fair value movements with the gain or loss being reported in the income statement.
165 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A1.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.2 Significant accounting policies continued A derivative classified as a cash flow hedge recognises the portion of gains or losses on the derivative which are deemed to be effective directly in equity in the hedge reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the gains or losses is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
When hedged cash flows result in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the associated gains or losses previously recognised in equity are included in the initial measurement of the asset or liability.
For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period in which the hedged cash flows affect the income statement.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At the point of discontinuation, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity remains in equity until the forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
On settlement, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is recognised in the income statement.
Commodity derivatives Within its regular course of business, the Group routinely enters into sale and purchase derivative contracts for commodities such as electricity, gas, coal, carbon allowances and oil.
Where the contract was entered into and continues to be held for the purpose of receipt or delivery in accordance with the Groups expected sale, purchase or usage requirements, the contracts are designated as own use contracts and are measured at cost.
These contracts are not within the scope of IAS 39.
Derivative commodity contracts which are not designated as own use contracts are accounted for as trading derivatives and are recognised in the balance sheet at fair value.
Where a hedge accounting relationship is designated and is proven to be effective, the changes in fair value will be recognised in accordance with the rules noted in part i to this note.
There are currently no designated hedge relationships in relation to commodity contracts.
Other commodity contracts, where own use is not established and a hedge accounting relationship is not designated, are measured at fair value with gains and losses on re-measurement being recognised in the income statement in cost of sales.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives where the characteristics of the derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contracts.
Net investment hedges Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted in a manner similar to effective cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity, in the translation reserve, and any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised in the income statement.
On disposal of the foreign operation, the cumulative value of any gains or losses recognised directly in equity is transferred to the income statement.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cashflows.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are measured at cost less an appropriate allowance for irrecoverable receivables.
Interest-bearing loans and borrowings All such loans and borrowings are initially recognised at fair value including transaction costs and are subsequently measured at amortised cost, except where the loan or borrowing is the hedged item in an effective fair value hedge relationship.
Share capital Ordinary shares are accounted for as equity.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds received.
Own equity instruments that are reacquired are deducted from equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in the Group Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
Hybrid equity Hybrid equity comprises issued bonds that qualify for recognition as equity.
Accordingly, any coupon payments are accounted for as dividends and are recognised directly in equity at the time the payment obligation arises.
This is because the coupon payments are discretionary and relate to equity.
Coupon payments consequently do not have any impact on the income statement.
Coupon payments are recognised in the cash flow statement in the same way as dividends to ordinary shareholders.
Tax credits in relation to the coupon payments are linked to the past transactions or events that support the coupon payments and consequently the tax credits are reported in the income statement.
Hybrid debt Hybrid debt comprises issued bonds that have a fixed redemption date and are accounted within Loans and Borrowings.
Coupon payments are recognised within the income statement as a finance cost.
Basis of consolidation and significant accounting policies continued A1.3 Service concession arrangements In 50:50 partnership with Royal Bank Leasing Limited, the Group established three companies to provide street lighting services to councils under the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
These services are thereafter sub-contracted to SSE Contracting Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Group.
The companies established are as follows: Company Council Tay Valley Lighting Stoke-on-Trent Limited Stoke-on-Trent Tay Valley Lighting Newcastle and North Tyneside Limited Newcastle and North Tyneside Tay Valley Lighting Leeds Limited Leeds City Council Under IFRS 10, despite being 50% owned, these companies are categorised as subsidiaries and deemed to be controlled by the Group due to the Group being assessed as bearing the majority of the risks and rewards associated with the companies.
The debt associated with these companies is non-recourse to the Group.
The arrangements for all three companies are materially similar.
In March 2017, the Group disposed of its equity stake in all three companies but have retained operating subcontracts with those companies.
Characteristics of the arrangements Description The contracts are and were 25-year arrangements to replace ageing street-lighting stock and to subsequently maintain the new assets throughout each Councils areas.
Significant terms The cash flows under the PFI arrangements come from the unitary charge for these services paid by the Councils.
The unitary charge can only be adjusted if performance under the contract falls below the required standards.
Any significant change to the services proposed by either party is subject to a formal change procedure and agreement to such a change is required by the other party.
Nature and extent of rights and obligations The assets are part of the public highway and ownership of the assets remains with the Councils.
The contract holding companies are licensed to replace and maintain the assets for the period of the contract.
This obligation was and is passed down to SSE Contracting Limited or to other companies within the SSE Contracting group of companies through the operating sub-contract.
Any failure to provide the services to the required standards will result in financial penalties which are taken from the unitary charge.
The companies have 25-year contracts with no extension options.
Termination during this period can be initiated through a number of routes including service provider default, force majeure or the event of a risk becoming uninsurable, authority default, voluntary authority termination, or termination for a prohibited act or breach of refinancing provisions.
In all cases, a formula exists for calculating compensation payments to the service provider.
Throughout the contract period there are a number of circumstances under which the companies could potentially be required to provide additional services: Changes in the law If circumstances arise where by a change in legislation would mean a change in the way the services are to be provided the companies would be liable for part of the cost of this change.
Final survey The Councils have the ability to deduct a percentage of the unitary charge in the last two years if an independent survey indicates the assets are unlikely to have a 5-year residual life.
Taxation The Groups primary tax disclosures are included at Note 10.
The following tables represent enhanced disclosures adopted in order to assist stakeholder understanding of the Groups tax position and policies as part of the Groups commitment to its Fair Tax Mark accredited status.
167 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A2.
Taxation continued Reconciliation of tax charge to Adjusted underlying current tax 2017 2017 2016 2016 m % m % Group profit before tax 1,776.6 593.3 Less: share of results of associates and jointly controlled entities 187.4 204.8 Profit before tax 1,589.2 388.5 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2016 20% 317.8 20.0 77.7 20.0 Tax effect of: Capital allowances in excess of less than depreciation 45.6 2.9 24.9 6.4 Increase in restructuring and settlement provisions 2.2 0.1 9.2 2.4 Non-taxable gain on sale of shares 65.5 4.1 11.5 3.0 Impact of fide-consolidation of Clyde see Note 4.2 iii 11.8 0.7 Fair value movements on derivatives 50.9 3.2 3.4 0.9 Pension movements 8.8 0.6 3.1 0.8 Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs 20.8 1.3 20.3 5.2 Hybrid equity coupon payments 23.8 1.5 24.8 6.4 Corporation tax relief on PRT paid 3.2 0.8 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 19.6 1.2 14.4 3.7 Impact of higher current tax rates on Gas Production profits 12.8 3.3 Impact of foreign tax rates 3.0 0.8 Utilisation of tax losses brought forward 16.8 1.0 111.9 28.8 Employee share awards 0.3 2.3 0.6 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years i 70.1 4.5 21.2 5.5 Reported current tax charge and effective rate 116.4 7.3 115.1 29.6 Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 80.1 5.1 35.3 9.1 Increase in provisions 2.2 0.1 9.2 2.4 Fair value movements on derivatives 50.9 3.2 3.4 0.9 Pension movements 8.8 0.6 3.1 0.8 Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs 20.8 1.3 20.3 5.2 Impact of higher deferred tax rates on Gas Production profits 58.7 3.7 32.6 8.4 Impact of foreign tax rates 3.0 0.2 1.7 0.4 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years i 61.3 3.9 46.4 11.9 Change in rate of UK corporation tax 35.4 2.2 41.5 10.7 Arising due to business combination 14.1 3.5 Tax losses carried forward fide-recognised i 86.4 5.4 Tax losses utilised 16.8 1.1 111.9 28.8 Employee share schemes 0.3 2.3 0.6 Other items 1.9 0.1 Reported deferred tax credit and effective rate 58.6 3.7 107.0 27.5 Group tax charge and effective rate 57.8 3.6 8.1 2.1 i The Group has a small number of tax enquiries ongoing with HMRC at any one time.
In addition, under Corporate tax self assessment, the Group adopts a filing position on matters in its tax returns that may be large or complex, with the position then being discussed with HMRC after the tax returns have been filed.
SSE engages positively with HMRC on such matters.
However, where the Group considers there to be a risk that additional tax may be payable a provision is made for the potential liability, which is then released once the matter has been agreed with HMRC.
The credit of 70.1m, of which 9.0m originated from exceptional items, was recognised during the current year in relation to agreement of such prior year matters.
SSE considers this to be in line with its responsible approach to its tax obligations.
In addition, the 61.3m credit of deferred tax 2016 46.4m charge arising in respect of prior periods primarily relates to reversal adjustments in respect of the Greater Laggan acquisition.
The 86.4m deferred tax charge highlighted relates to tax loss assets which have been fide-recognised following re-assessment of their recoverability in the Gas Production business.
As noted at Note 3 to the accounts, the Groups results are reported on an Adjusted basis in order to allow focus on underlying business performance.
The following table explains the adjustments that are made in order to arrive at Adjusted profit before tax.
This is the measure utilised in calculation of the Groups Adjusted effective rate of tax.
2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 1,776.6 593.3 Add less : Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 266.6 858.0 Share of tax from jointly controlled entities and associates before exceptional items and certain re-measurements 32.8 39.9 Interest on pension scheme liabilities 4.0 20.4 Share of interest on net pension liabilities in jointly controlled entities and associates 0.9 1.9 Adjusted profit before tax 1,545.9 1,513.5 SSE plc Annual Report 2017 168 1.
Taxation continued Reconciliation of tax charge to Adjusted underlying current tax continued The Adjusted current tax charge can therefore be reconciled to the Adjusted profit before tax as follows: 2017 2017 2016 2016 m % m % Adjusted profit before tax 1,545.9 1,513.5 Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard UK corporation tax rate 309.2 20.0 302.7 20.0 Tax effect of: Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 28.2 1.8 170.7 11.3 Non-taxable gain on sale of shares 4.0 0.3 1.9 0.1 Increase in restructuring and settlement provisions 2.9 0.1 2.9 0.2 Pension movements 11.2 0.7 7.9 0.5 Relief for capitalised interest and revenue costs 12.3 0.8 9.3 0.6 Hybrid equity coupon payments 23.8 1.5 24.8 1.6 Corporation tax relief on PRT paid 3.2 0.2 Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 13.4 0.9 4.5 0.3 Relief for brought forward losses 16.8 1.1 108.8 7.2 Impact of higher current tax rates on oil and gas profits 12.8 0.8 Impact of foreign tax rates 3.1 0.2 Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous years 71.5 4.6 21.2 1.4 Adjusted current tax charge and effective rate 157.7 10.2 193.4 12.8 The above reconciling adjustments differ from those analysed in the Group tax charge reconciliation above because they include SSEs share of associates and joint ventures, and are based on Adjusted profit before tax.
The majority of the Groups profits are earned in the UK, with the standard rate of UK corporation tax being 20% for the year to 31 March 2017 2016 20%.
The Groups Gas Production business is taxed at a UK corporation tax rate of 30% plus a supplementary charge of 10% combined 40%.
In addition, profits from the Sean gas field were subject to petroleum revenue tax PRT at 0% 50% until 1 January 2016 which is deductible against corporation tax, giving an overall effective rate for the field of 40%.
Profits earned by the Group in the Republic of Ireland are taxable at either 12.5% or 25%, depending upon the nature of the income.
Capital allowances are tax reliefs provided in law for the expenditure the Group makes on property, plant and equipment.
The rates are determined by Parliament annually and spread the tax relief due over a number of years.
This contrasts with the accounting treatment for such spending, where the expenditure on property, plant and equipment is treated as an asset with the cost being depreciated over the useful life of the asset, or impaired if the value of such assets is considered to have reduced materially.
The different accounting treatment of property, plant and equipment for tax and accounting purposes means that the taxable income of the Group is not the same as the profit reported in the financial statements.
During both the year to 31 March 2017 and the previous year, the substantial impairments undertaken in relation to certain of the Groups property, plant and equipment, which are explained at Note 7 meant that the charge to profit for the year significantly exceeded the amount of capital allowances due to the Group.
Short-term temporary differences arise on items such as provisions for restructuring costs and onerous contracts, and retirement benefit obligations, because the treatment of such items is different for tax and accounting purposes.
These differences usually reverse in the year following that in which they arise, as is reflected in the deferred tax charge in these financial statements.
Where interest charges or other costs are capitalised in the accounts, tax relief is either given as the charges are incurred or when the costs are taken to the income statement.
As explained at Accompanying Information A1 and A6, the Group measures its operating and financing derivatives at fair value under IAS 39.
As a result of the Groups subsidiaries applying the HMRCs disregard regulations, the re-measurement movements have no current tax effect impacting only the deferred tax position.
As detailed at Note 22 and explained in the Accompanying Information A1, the Group has issued hybrid equity securities which are treated as a component of equity.
While the coupon payments relating to these securities are treated as distributions to the holders of the equity instruments, tax relief is allowed on the amount paid in the year.
These tax credits are linked to the past transactions or events that support the coupon payments and consequently the tax credits are reported in the income statement.
169 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A3.
Related undertakings A3.1 Subsidiary undertakings Details of the principal subsidiary undertakings are as follows: Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity Abernedd Power Company Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Ahalia Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 Dormant Airtricity Europe Windfarm Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Airtricity UK Windfarm Holdings Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Airtricity Windfarm Finance Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Arklow Offshore Phase II Company Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Ashdown Control Services Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant AtlasConnect Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdco Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Bindoo Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Brickmount Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Building Automation Solutions Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant CHP Supply Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Comhlacht Gaoithe Teoranta Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Coomacheo Wind Farm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Coomatallin Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Curragh Mountain Windfarm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Dedondo Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Doggerbank Project 1A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 1B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4A SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4B SSER Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Dorset Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Dromada Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Ealing Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant ESG International Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Evolve Energy Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Ferrybridge MFE 2 Limited England and Wales B 100.0 Development Company Fibre Fuel Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Fibre Power Slough Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Ganderoy Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Gartnaneane Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Griffin Wind Farm Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation HE Trustees Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant Islay Offshore Winds Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Islington Lighting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Keadby Developments Limited England and Wales M 100.0 100.0 Dormant Keadby Generation Limited England and Wales M 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Keadby Wind Farm Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Limerick West Windfarm Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation March Winds Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Marsh Systems Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Medway Power Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Meentycat Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Milane Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Mullananalt Wind Farm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Neos Networks Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Telecommunications Nobbs & Jones Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant Platin Power Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant Power from Waste Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Renewable Energy Partners Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Richfield Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Scottish and Southern Energy Power Distribution Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution plc Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Distribution SSE plc Annual Report 2017 170 1.
Related undertakings continued A3.1 Subsidiary undertakings continued Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Transmission SEC Highway Lighting Dorset Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Slieve Divena Wind Farm No 2 Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development Slough Domestic Electricity Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Slough Electricity Contracts Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Electricity Contracting Slough Energy Supplies Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Slough Heat & Power Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation Slough Utility Services Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Utility Services South Wales Electricity Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Southern Electric Gas Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply Southern Electric Group Trustee Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Southern Electric Power Distribution plc England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Distribution Southern Electric Quest Trustee Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Airtricity Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Services NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Services Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Energy Supply NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Gas Supply NI Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Airtricity Utility Solutions Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Utility Contracting SSE Asia Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Calliachar Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE CCS Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Contracting Group Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Contracting Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Contracting SSE E&P UK Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Gas Production SSE Energy Solutions Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy-related Services SSE Energy Supply Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Enterprise Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE EPM Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Trading SSE Galloper Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Generation Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Generation Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Green Deal Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Green Deal Provider Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Heat Networks Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Utility Services SSE Home Services Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy-related Services SSE Hornsea Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Gas Storage SSE Insource Energy Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Insurance Limited Isle of Man X 100.0 100.0 Insurance SSE Islay Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Maple Limited England and Wales B 100.0 Investment Holding SSE Medway Operations Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Metering Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy Supply SSE Micro Renewables Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy-related Services SSE Mineral Solutions Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Nuclear Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE OWS Glasgow Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Property Holding SSE Production Services Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Renewables Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Developments UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development SSE Renewables Generation Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Renewables Holdings Europe Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Holdings UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Holdings Germany GmbH Germany Z 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Renewables Holdings Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company 171 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A3.
Related undertakings continued A3.1 Subsidiary undertakings continued Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity SSE Renewables Off Shore Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Offshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Onshore Windfarm Holdings Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables UK Limited Northern Ireland P 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Renewables Walney UK Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Holding Company SSE Retail Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Energy-related Services SSE Retail Telecoms Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Rogerstone Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Seabank Investments Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Seabank Land Investments Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Secretaries Ireland Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Services plc England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Corporate Services SSE Shetland Power Generation Limited Scotland A 100.0 Power Generation SSE Stock Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Stock Holding SSE Telecommunications Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Telecommunications SSE Toddleburn Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Power Generation SSE Trading Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Energy Trading SSE Trustees Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Uskmouth Acquisition Company Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Utility Services Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant SSE Utility Solutions Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Utility Services SSE Venture Capital Limited Scotland A 100.0 100.0 Investment Holding SSE Viking Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Renewable Development SSE Water Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Water Network SSEPG Operations Limited England and Wales B 100.0 100.0 Dormant Sure Partners Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Dormant TESGL Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant The Energy Solutions Group Bidco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Utility Services The Energy Solutions Group Midco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Dormant The Energy Solutions Group Topco Limited England and Wales Q 100.0 100.0 Holding Company Tournafulla Windfarm ROI Limited Ireland S 100.0 100.0 Power Generation All shares in subsidiary companies are ordinary share capital, unless otherwise stated.
Partnerships Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity The Glasa LLP Scotland A 90.0 90.0 Renewable Development Viking Energy Scottish Partnership Scotland V 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development Viking Energy Wind Farm LLP Scotland V 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development SSE plc Annual Report 2017 172 1.
Related undertakings continued A3.3 Joint arrangements incorporated Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity 3SE Barnsley, Doncaster & Rotherham England and Wales J 25.0 25.0 Holding Company HoldingsLimited 3SE Barnsley, Doncaster & Rotherham Limited England and Wales J 25.0 25.0 Waste Management Aquamarine Power Limited Scotland I 30.4 30.4 Renewable Development Baglan Pipeline Limited England and Wales C 50.0 50.0 Dormant Beatrice Offshore Windfarm Limited Scotland A 40.0 40.0 Renewable Development Brims Tidal Array Limited Scotland G 50.0 50.0 Dormant Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Designated Activity Company Ireland F 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development Cloosh Valley Wind Farm Holdings Designated Ireland F 50.0 Holding Company 50.0 Activity Company Clyde Windfarm Scotland Limited Scotland A 50.1 100.0 Power Generation Derwent Cogeneration Limited England and Wales B 49.5 49.5 Dormant Doggerbank Project 1 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 37.5 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 2 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 37.5 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 3 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 37.5 25.0 Holding Company Doggerbank Project 4 Bizco Limited England and Wales B 37.5 25.0 Holding Company Everwind Limited Ireland L 49.0 49.0 Power Generation Ferrybridge MFE Ltd England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Forewind Limited England and Wales B 25.0 25.0 Dormant Greater Gabbard Offshore Winds Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Green Energy Company Limited Ireland N 47.5 47.5 Dormant Green Way Energy Limited Ireland N 50.0 50.0 Holding Company Kerry Power Limited Ireland O 49.0 49.0 Power Generation Marchwood Power Limited England and Wales R 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Midas Energy Limited Ireland O 49.0 49.0 Power Generation Multifuel Energy Limited Scotland A 50.0 50.0 Power Generation PriDE Serp Ltd England and Wales H 50.0 50.0 Estate Maintenance and Improvement Scotia Gas Networks Limited England and Wales U 33.3 50.0 Gas Distribution Seabank Power Limited England and Wales T 50.0 50.0 Power Generation Seagreen Wind Energy Limited England and Wales B 50.0 50.0 Renewable Development A3.4 Associates Registered address 2017 2016 Company Country of incorporation Key Holding % Holding % Principal activity Shetland Land Lease Limited England and Wales D 20.0 20.0 Development Company St Clements Services Limited England and Wales F 25.0 25.0 Utilities Software Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Limited England and Wales Y 25.1 25.1 Power Generation 173 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A3.
Related undertakings continued A3.5 Registered address key Company Reference Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth PH1 3AQ A 55 Vastern Road, Reading, Berkshire RG1 8BU B 16 Axis Way, Mallard Way, Swansea Vale, Swansea C 18th Floor, 10 Upper Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5BF D 4 -6 Church Walk, Daventry NN11 4BL E 6th Floor, South Bank House, Barrow Street, Dublin 4 F c o Maclay Murray & Spens LLP, 1 George Square, Glasgow G2 1AL G Capital Tower, 91 Waterloo Road, London SE1 8RT H City Point, 65 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD I Dunedin House Auckland Park, Mount Farm, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK1 1BU J Elder House, 24 Elder Street, Edinburgh EH1 3DX K Gorthleahy, Macroom, County Cork L Keadby Power Station, PO Box 89, Keadby, Scunthorpe, North Lincs DN17 3AZ M Lissarda Business Park, Lissarda, County Cork N Lissarda Industrial Park, Lissarda, Macroom, County Cork O Millennium House, 17-25 Great Victoria Street, Belfast BT2 7AQ P Ocean Court, Caspian Road, Atlantic Street, Altrincham WA14 5HH Q Oceanic Way, Marchwood Industrial Park, Marchwood, Southampton SO40 4BD R Red Oak South, South County Business Park, Leopardstown, Dublin 18 S Severn Road, Hallen, Bristol BS10 7SP T St Lawrence House, Station Approach, Horley, Surrey RH6 9HJ U The Gutters Hut, North Ness Business Park, Lerwick, Shetland ZE1 0LZ V The Quadrangle, The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire GL50 1PX W Tower House, Loch Promenade, Douglas, Isle of Man X 5 Horwick Place, London SWIP 1WG Y Bro Mnchen, Elektrastrasse 6, 81925, Mnchen, Germany Z A4.
Joint ventures and associates The Directors have assessed that the investments in the following equity accounted joint ventures and associates are of a sufficiently material impact to warrant additional disclosure on an individual basis.
Details of on the financial position and financial results of the Group: Proportion of Group Country of Class of shares held interest Consolidation Company Principal activity incorporation shares held % % Year end basis Scotia Gas Networks Limited Gas Distribution UK Ordinary 33.3 33.3 31 March Equity Seabank Power Limited Gas Power Generation UK Ordinary 50 50 31 December Equity Marchwood Power Limited Gas Power Generation UK Ordinary 50 50 31 December Equity Multifuel Energy Limited Multi Fuel Power UK Ordinary 50 50 31 March Equity Generation Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Offshore Windfarm UK Ordinary 25.1 25.1 31 December Equity Limited Clyde Windfarm Scotland Limited Onshore Windfarm UK Ordinary 50.1 50.1 31 March Equity SSE plc Annual Report 2017 174 1.
Group equity interest 33.3% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50% 50.1% 50.1% Net assets 1,345.7 1,267.0 160.8 176.7 112.0 109.8 12.3 2.4 50.1 Groups share of ownership interest 448.5 633.5 80.4 88.4 56.0 54.9 6.2 1.2 25.1 Other adjustments 8.9 18.3 5.5 2.3 122.7 Carrying value of groups equity interest 448.5 642.4 62.1 88.4 61.5 54.9 8.5 1.2 147.8 Summary information for material associate from unaudited financial statements is as follows: Walney UK Offshore Windfarms Limited 2017 2016 m m Revenue 123.5 124.3 Profit loss after tax 2.8 19.5 Total comprehensive income loss 2.8 19.5 SSE share of profit based on % equity 0.7 4.9 Non-current assets 775.3 882.9 Current assets 27.1 19.9 Current liabilities 20.8 9.0 Non-current liabilities 81.6 69.1 Net assets 700.0 824.7 Group interest 25.1% 25.1% Net assets 700.0 824.7 Groups ownership interest 175.7 207.0 Other adjustments 14.6 Carrying value of Groups interest 190.3 207.0 175 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A4.
Joint ventures and associates continued In addition, at 31 March 2017, the Group was owed the following loans from its principal joint ventures: Scotia Gas Networks Limited 177.8m 2016 266.9m, Multifuel Energy Limited 144.0m 2016 151.9m, Marchwood Power Limited 90.3m 2016 100.0m, Seabank Power Limited nil 2016 0.9m and Clyde Windfarm Scotland Ltd 343.2m 2016 nil.
This represents 96% 2016 88% of the loans provided to equity-accounted joint ventures and associates.
Related party transactions The immediate parent and ultimate controlling party of the Group is SSE plc incorporated in Scotland.
Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed below.
Trading transactions The following transactions took place during the year between the Group and entities which are related to the Group but which are not members of the Group.
Related parties are defined as those in which the Group has control, joint control or significant influence over.
2017 2016 Sale of Purchase of Amounts Amounts Sale of Purchase of Amounts Amounts goods and goods and owed owed goods and goods and owed owed services services from to services services from to Joint ventures m m m m m m m m Seabank Power Ltd 11.0 134.0 0.1 17.0 13.7 125.8 18.2 Marchwood Power Ltd 16.8 144.5 0.5 12.6 12.7 108.7 0.1 15.5 Scotia Gas Networks Ltd 45.5 158.0 0.9 0.9 46.3 155.8 15.9 0.9 Clyde Windfarm Scotland Ltd 5.7 0.1 11.1 Other Joint Ventures 10.4 2.3 8.1 1.2 8.4 Associates 1.4 53.4 3.6 3.9 0.5 59.7 2.4 3.9 The transactions with Seabank Power Limited and Marchwood Power Limited relate to the contracts for the provision of energy or the tolling of energy under power purchase arrangements.
Scotia Gas Networks Limited has operated the gas distribution networks in Scotland and the South of England from 1 June 2005.
The Groups gas supply activity incurs gas distribution charges while the Group also provides services to Scotia Gas Networks in the form of a management service agreement for corporate services, stock procurement services and the provision of the capital expenditure on the development of front office management information systems.
The amounts outstanding are trading balances, are unsecured and will be settled in cash.
No guarantees have been given or received.
No provisions have been made for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.
Aggregate capital loans to joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 16.
Financial risk management This note presents information about the fair value of the Groups financial instruments, the Groups exposure to the risks associated with those instruments, the Groups objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Groups management of capital.
Further qualitative disclosures are included throughout these consolidated financial statements.
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Credit risk Liquidity risk Commodity risk Currency risk Interest rate risk The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Risk Committee in the Wholesale and Retail divisions, both of which report directly to the Executive Committee to support the Groups risk management responsibilities by reviewing the strategic, market, credit operational and liquidity risks and exposures that arise from the Groups energy portfolio management, generation, energy supply and treasury operations.
The Risk Committees of Wholesale and Retail are designed to ensure strict business separation requirements are maintained.
The Groups policies for risk management are established to identify the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies, and the systems used to monitor activities, are reviewed regularly by the Risk Committees in Wholesale and Retail.
Financial risk management continued Exposure to the commodity, currency and interest rate risks noted arise in the normal course of the Groups business and derivative financial instruments are entered into to hedge exposure to these risks.
The objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the year are explained below.
A6.1 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Credit risk arising from the Groups normal commercial operations is controlled by individual business units operating in accordance with Group policies and procedures.
Generally, for significant contracts, individual business units enter into contracts or agreements with counterparties having investment grade credit ratings only, or where suitable collateral or other security has been provided.
Counterparty credit validation is undertaken prior to contractual commitment.
Credit risk management for the Groups Networks businesses is performed in accordance with industry standards as set out by the Regulator and is financially controlled by the individual business units.
The Groups greatest credit risks lie with the operations of the Energy Supply business, the Wholesale procurement activities conducted by Energy Portfolio Management EPM under a trust arrangement and the activities carried out by the Groups Treasury function.
In all cases, specific credit risk controls that match the risk profile of those activities are applied.
Exposure to credit risk in the retail supply of electricity and gas to end user customers arises from the potential of a customer defaulting on their invoiced payables.
The financial strength and creditworthiness of business customers is assessed prior to commencing, and for the duration of, their contract of supply.
Domestic customers creditworthiness is reviewed from a variety of internal and external information.
Exposure to credit risk in the procurement of wholesale energy and fuel is managed by reference to agreed transaction credit limits which are determined by whether the counterparty: holds an investment grade credit rating: or can be assessed as adequately creditworthy in accordance with internal credit rules using information from other external credit agencies: or can provide a guarantee from an investment grade rated entity or post suitable collateral or provide other acceptable assurances in accordance with group procedures where they have failed to meet the above conditions: or can be allocated a non-standard credit limit approved by the relevant Risk Committee within its authorised limits as delegated by the Group Board.
Credit support clauses or side agreements are typically included or entered into to protect the Group against counterparty failure or nondelivery.
As part of its normal activities, EPM transacts significant volumes of commodity derivative products through cleared exchanges to mitigate credit risk.
Such exchanges are subject to strict regulation by the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA and participants in these exchanges are obliged to meet rigorous capital adequacy requirements.
Individual counterparty credit exposures are monitored by category of credit risk and are subject to approved limits.
At 31 March 2017, EPM had pledged 178.0m 2016 211.4m of cash collateral and letters of credit and had received 66.0m 2016 44.5m of cash collateral and letters of credit principally to reduce exposures on credit risk.
Bank credit exposures, which are monitored and reported on daily, are calculated on a mark-to-market basis and adjusted for future volatility and probability of default.
Any issues relating to these credit exposures are presented for discussion and review by the Tax and Treasury Committee.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and deposits which are readily convertible to cash.
These are subject to insignificant risk of change in value or credit risk.
Derivative financial instruments are entered into to cover the Groups market risks commodity risk, interest rate risk, currency risk and are consequently covered elsewhere in this note.
Trade receivables represent the most significant exposure to credit risk and are stated after an allowance for impairment.
177 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A6.
Financial risk management continued A6.2 Concentrations of risk Trade receivables recorded by reported segment held at the 31 March were: 2017 2016 m m Networks Electricity Distribution 59.5 72.2 Electricity Transmission 27.2 0.9 86.7 73.1 Retail Energy Supply 524.8 524.2 Enterprise 129.6 53.9 Energy-related Services 19.2 11.4 673.6 589.5 Wholesale Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation 1,817.6 1,291.5 Gas Storage 1.0 1.1 Gas Production 0.3 1.4 1,818.9 1,294.0 Corporate Unallocated 19.4 10.2 Total 2,598.6 1,966.8 The Retail segment accounts for 25.9% 2016 30.0% of the Groups trade receivables.
Trade receivables associated with the Groups 8.0 million electricity and gas customers are recorded in this segment.
The Group also has significant receivables associated with its Wholesale activities which are generally settled within two to four weeks from invoicing.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is therefore subject to diversification with no exposure to individual retail customers totalling 10% of trade receivables.
The biggest customer balance, due from a wholesale customer also a wholesale supplier, is 9% 2016 8% of the total trade receivables.
The ageing of trade receivables at the reporting date was: 2017 2016 m m Not past due 2,374.6 1,690.2 Past due but not individually impaired: 0-30 days 133.8 156.3 31-90 days 49.4 59.2 Over 90 days 160.8 208.6 2,718.6 2,114.3 Less: allowance for impairment 120.0 147.5 Net Trade receivables 2,598.6 1,966.8 The Group has past due debt which has not had an impairment allowance set aside to cover potential credit losses.
The Group has certain procedures to pursue customers in significant arrears and believes its impairment policy in relation to such balances is appropriate.
Those debts which are neither past due nor impaired are considered to be good and are expected to be recoverable.
The Group has other receivables which are financial assets totalling 16.6m 2016 23.7m.
The movement in the allowance for impairment of trade receivables was: 2017 2016 m m Balance at 1 April 147.5 154.3 Increase in allowance for impairment 21.7 54.3 Impairment losses recognised 49.2 61.1 Balance at 31 March 120.0 147.5 At the end of each reporting period a review of the provision for bad and doubtful debts is performed.
It is an assessment of the potential amount of trade receivables which will not be paid by customers after the balance sheet date.
This amount is calculated by reference to the age, status and risk of each class of receivable.
Financial risk management continued A6.3 Liquidity risk and going concern Liquidity risk, the risk that the Group will have insufficient funds to meet its liabilities, is managed by the Groups Treasury function.
The Group can be exposed to significant movements in its liquidity position due to changes in commodity prices, working capital requirements, the impact of the seasonal nature of the business and phasing of its capital investment and recycling programmes.
Treasury is responsible for managing the banking and liquidity requirements of the Group, risk management relating to interest rate and foreign exchange exposures, and for managing the credit risk relating to the banking counterparties with which it transacts.
Short-term liquidity is reviewed daily by Treasury, while the longer term liquidity position is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The departments operations are governed by policies determined by the Board and any breaches of these policies are reported to the Risk and Trading Committee and Audit Committee.
In relation to the Groups liquidity risk, the Groups policy is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groupsreputation.
During the year, the Groups approach to managing liquidity was to seek to ensure that the Group had available committed borrowings and facilities equal to at least 105% of forecast borrowings over a rolling 6 month period.
The Group uses cash flow forecasts to monitor its ongoing borrowing requirements.
Typically, the Group will fund any short-term borrowing positions by issuing commercial paper or borrowing from uncommitted bank lines and will invest in money market funds when it has a cash surplus.
Details of the groups borrowings are disclosed at Note 21.
In addition to the borrowing facilities listed at Note 21.2, the Group has 150m of uncommitted bank lines and a 15m overdraft facility.
The refinancing requirement in the 17 18 financial year is the intended redemption of 1.03bn of NC5 hybrids issued in 2012, the Group has already successfully issued a dual tranche hybrid debt in March 2017 in order to cover this refinancing.
This dual tranche issue comprises 300m with a coupon of 3.625% and $900m with a coupon of 4.75%.
The $900m tranche has been swapped back to both Euros and Sterling, bringing the all-in rate down to 2.72% and resulting in an all-in funding cost for both tranches to SSE of 3.02% per annum which compares favourably to the all-in funding cost of 4.02% achieved on SSEs most recent hybrid equity securities issued in 2015.
The Group has also signed a new 200m facility 100m for SSE plc and 100m for Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc with the European Investment Bank which will be drawn during 2017 at which point it will become a 10 year term loan.
As a consequence, it is the view of the Directors that the Groups 105% funding policy will be met out its forecast borrowing requirement to September 2017.
Given the committed bank facilities of 1.5bn maintained by the Group and the current capital market conditions, the Directors have concluded that the Group has sufficient headroom to continue as a going concern.
In coming to this conclusion, the Directors have also taken into account the successful issuance of 4.5bn of medium to long-term debt and hybrid equity since February 2012, and the Groups credit rating.
The statement of going concern is included in the Directors Corporate Governance report on page 72.
Treasury also manage the Groups interaction with its relationship banks defined as those banks that support the Groups financing activities through their ongoing participation in the committed lending facilities that are maintained by the Group.
These are each allocated financial limits, subject to the maintenance of a minimum credit rating of investment grade or better allocated by a recognised major ratings group.
In respect of short-term cash management, counterparties are subject to review and approval according to defined criteria.
As at 31 March 2017, the value of outstanding cash collateral in respect of mark-to-market related margin calls on exchange traded positions was 105.2m 2016 78.3m.
The contractual cash flows shown in the following tables are the contractual undiscounted cash flows under the relevant financial instruments.
Where the contractual cash flows are variable based on a price, foreign exchange rate or index in the future, the contractual cash flows in the following tables have been determined with reference to the relevant price, foreign exchange rate, interest rate or index as at the balance sheet date.
In determining the interest element of contractual cash flows in cases where the Group has a choice as to the length of interest calculation periods and the interest rate that applies varies with the period selected, the contractual cash flows have been calculated assuming the Group selects the shortest available interest calculation periods.
Where the holder of an instrument has a choice of when to redeem, the amounts in the following tables are on the assumption the holder redeems at the earliest opportunity.
The numbers in the following tables have been included in the Groups cash flow forecasts for the purposes of considering Liquidity Risk as noted above.
179 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A6.
It should be noted that cash flows associated with future energy sales and commodity contracts which are not IAS 39 financial instruments are not included in this analysis, which is prepared in accordance with IFRS 7.
Financial risk management continued A6.4 Commodity risk The Groups Energy Portfolio Management EPM business manages the Groups exposure to energy commodity price movements and requirement for the delivery of its physical commodity needs as part of its normal course of business.
The risk management activity carried out by EPM arises from the Groups requirement to source gas, electricity or other commodities such as renewable obligation certificates for Energy Supply, and to procure fuel and other commodities and provide a route-to-market for Electricity Generation.
The Groups strategy is to manage all exposures to commodity risk through volumetric limits and to measure the exposure by use of Value at Risk VaR models.
The exposure is subject to financial limits established by the Board and managed by reference to guidance agreed by the Risk Committees of Retail and Wholesale.
Exposures are reported to the Committees on a monthly basis and to the Board when certain trigger levels are exceeded.
Within this approach, only certain of the Groups energy commodity contracts are deemed to constitute financial instruments under IAS 39.
As a result, while the Group manages the commodity price risk associated with both financial and non-financial commodity contracts, it is only the fair value of IAS 39 financial instruments which represents the exposure of the Groups commodity price risk under IFRS 7.
This is a consequence of the Groups accounting policy which stipulates that commodity contracts which are designated as financial instruments under IAS 39 should be accounted for on a fair value basis with changes in fair value reflected in profit or equity.
Conversely, commodity contracts that are not designated as financial instruments under IAS 39 will be accounted for as own use contracts.
As fair value changes in own use contracts are not reflected through profit or equity, these do not represent the IFRS 7 commodity price risk.
Therefore, as the overall Group VaRs associated with commodity risk will be monitored for internal risk management purposes and is outside the scope of IAS 39.
In EPM, the economic volatility that the Group is exposed to related to this risk is managed through a selection of longer and shorter term contracts for commodities such as gas, electricity, coal and carbon allowances, the arms length arrangements with the Groups gas production business and through flexibility from the Groups fleet of generation assets including assets such as pumped storage generating plant, flexible hydro generating plant, standby oil plant and contracts with the gas storage business.
Short-term exposures will arise from the requirement to match volumes of procured gas and electricity with demand for gas and electricity by Energy Supply customers.
In addition, exposures can arise from matching fuel and other commodity procurement with demand for these commodities arising from the Groups Generation assets.
Both can vary from expectations and result in a requirement to close the contracted positions at unfavourable prices.
Longer-term exposures are managed by EPM through longer term contracts including forwards, futures contracts and other financial instruments.
These, in turn, are used to reduce short-term market exposures.
As noted, certain commodity contracts are entered into primarily for own use purposes to supply to customers or to provide fuel to power stations.
However, as noted, a number of these contracts do not qualify for own use treatment under IAS 39 and are subject to fair value measurement through the income statement.
In addition to this, the Group enters into certain contracts to manage commodity price and volume risk.
These are also subject to fair value measurement through the income statement.
Finally, other physical contracts can be treated as the hedging instrument in documented cash flow hedging relationships where the hedged item is the forecast future purchase requirement to meet production or customer demand.
The accounting policies associated with such items are explained in the Accompanying information Section A1.
The consequential commodity risk which derives from these activities is quantified by the use of a Value at Risk VaR model which considers exposures in all commodities and provides an estimate of the potential change to the Groups forecast profits over a given period and to a given confidence level.
The calculated financial risk is controlled through the imposition of a number of risk limits approved by the Board and monitored and managed by the Risk Committees of Retail and Wholesale.
The Groups exposure to Commodity risk is subsequently reported to and monitored by the relevant Risk Committees and to the Executive Committee by exception.
The Groups exposure to commodity price risk according to IFRS 7 is measured by reference to the Groups IAS 39 commodity contracts.
IFRS 7 requires disclosure of a sensitivity analysis for market risks that is intended to illustrate the sensitivity of the Groups financial position and performance to changes in market variables impacting upon the fair value or cash flows associated with the Groups financial instruments.
Therefore, the sensitivity analysis provided discloses the effect on profit or loss and equity at the balance sheet date assuming that a reasonably possible change in the relevant commodity price had occurred, and been applied to the risk exposures in existence at that date.
The reasonably possible changes in commodity prices used in the sensitivity analysis were determined based on calculated or implied volatilities where available, or historical data.
The sensitivity analysis has been calculated on the basis that the proportion of commodity contracts that are IAS 39 financial instruments remains consistent with those at that point.
Excluded from this analysis are all commodity contracts that are not financial instruments under IAS 39.
181 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A6.
Financial risk management continued A6.4 Commodity risk continued 2017 2016 Reasonably Reasonably possible increase possible increase decrease in decrease in Commodity prices Base price i variable Base price i variable UK gas p therm 43 -11 33 -4 UK power MWh 40 -10 33 -5 UK coal US$ tonne 65 -10 42 -4 UK emissions tonne 5 -2 5 -1 UK oil US$ bbl 54 -9 49 -7 i The base price represents the average forward market price over the duration of the active market curve used to calculate the sensitivity analysis.
The impacts of reasonably possible changes in commodity prices on profit after taxation based on the rationale described are as follows: 2017 2016 Impact on profit Impact on profit Incremental profit loss and equity m and equity m Commodity prices combined increase 239.0 77.6 Commodity prices combined decrease 239.0 77.6 The sensitivity analysis provided is hypothetical and is based on the Groups commodity contracts under IAS 39.
This is analysis only and should be used with caution as the impacts disclosed are not necessarily indicative of the actual impacts that would be experienced.
It should also be noted that these sensitivities impacts provided are indicative only and are based on calculations which do not consider all interrelationships, consequences and effects of such a change in those prices.
A6.5 Currency risk The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in Sterling but also conducts business in foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk arising from exchange rate movements which will be reflected in the Groups transaction costs or in the underlying foreign currency assets of its foreign operations.
The Groups policy is to use forward contracts, swaps and options to manage its exposures to foreign exchange risk.
All such exposures are transactional in nature, and relate primarily to procurement contracts, commodity purchasing and related freight requirements, commodity hedging, long-term plant servicing and maintenance agreements, and the purchase and sale of carbon emission certificates.
The policy is to seek to hedge 100% of its currency requirements arising under all committed contracts excepting commodity hedge transactions, the requirements for which are significantly less predictable.
The policy for these latter transactions is to assess the Groups requirements on a rolling basis and to enter into cover contracts as appropriate.
The Group has foreign subsidiary operations with significant Euro-denominated net assets.
The Groups policy is to hedge its net investment in its foreign operations by ensuring the net assets whose functional currency cash flows are denominated in Euros are matched by borrowings in Euros.
For the acquired net assets whose functional cash flows are in Sterling, the Group will ensure Sterling denominated borrowings are in place to minimise currency risk.
Significant exposures are reported to, and discussed by, the Risk and Trading Committee on an ongoing basis and additionally form part of the bi-annual Treasury report to the Audit Committee.
At the balance sheet date, the total nominal value of outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts that the Group has committed to is: 2017 2016 m m Forward foreign exchange contracts 2,580.2 2,783.8 SSE plc Annual Report 2017 182 1.
All sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis of the relative proportions of instruments in foreign currencies being consistent as at the balance sheet date.
This includes only monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than Sterling and excludes the translation of the net assets of foreign operations but not the corresponding impact of the net investment hedge.
The sensitivity analysis is indicative only and it should be noted that the Groups exposure to such market rate changes is continually changing.
The calculations are based on linear extrapolations of rate changes which may not reflect the actual result which would impact upon the Group.
A 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates would have had the following impact on profit after taxation, based on the assumptions presented above: Equity Income statement At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March At 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m US Dollars 0.5 0.7 Euro 87.1 43.2 6.2 8.1 DKK SEK NOK CHF 87.1 43.2 5.7 7.4 The impact of a decrease in rates would be an identical reduction in the annual charge.
A6.6 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk derives from the Groups exposure to changes in the value of an asset or liability or future cash flows through changes in interest rates.
The Groups policy is to manage this risk by stipulating that a minimum of 50% of Group borrowings be subject to fixed rates of interest, either directly through the debt instruments themselves or through the use of derivative financial instruments.
The floating rate borrowings are provided by banks including the European Investment Bank EIB.
Such instruments include interest rate swaps and options, forward rate agreements and, in the case of debt raised in currencies other than Sterling, cross currency swaps.
These practices serve to reduce the volatility of the Groups financial performance.
Although interest rate derivatives are primarily used to hedge risk relating to current borrowings, under certain circumstances they may also be used to hedge future borrowings.
Any such pre-hedging is unwound at the time of pricing the underlying debt, either through cash settlement on a net present value basis or by transacting offsetting trades.
The floating rate borrowings mainly comprise cash advances from the European Investment Bank EIB.
183 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A6.
Financial risk management continued A6.6 Interest rate risk continued The impact of a change in interest rates is dependent on the specific details of the financial asset or liability in question.
Changes in fixed rate financial assets and liabilities, which account for the majority of cash, loans and borrowings, are not measured at fair value through the income statement.
In addition to this, changes to fixed-to-floating hedging instruments which are recorded under cash flow hedge accounting also do not impact the income statement.
Changes in variable rate instruments and hedging instruments and hedged items recorded under fair value hedge accounting are recorded through the income statement.
The exposure measured is therefore based on variable rate debt and instruments.
The net exposure to interest rates at the balance sheet date can be summarised thus: 2017 2016 Carrying Carrying amount amount m m Interest bearing earning assets and liabilities: fixed 7,529.7 5,613.9 floating 942.6 1,372.1 6,587.1 6,986.0 Represented by: Cash and cash equivalents 1,427.0 360.2 Derivative financial assets liabilities 68.3 177.4 Loans and borrowings 7,805.5 6,868.0 Finance lease obligations 276.9 300.8 6,587.1 6,986.0 Following from this, the table below represents the expected impact of a change of 100 basis points in short-term interest rates at the reporting date in relation to equity and income statement.
The analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
An increase in exchange rates would be a change to either the income statement or equity.
The assessment is based on a revision of the fair value assumptions included in the calculated exposures in the previous table.
All sensitivity analysis has been prepared on the basis of the proportion of fixed to floating instruments being consistent as at the balance sheet date and is stated after the effect of taxation.
2017 2016 m m Income statement 4.9 14.3 4.9 14.3 The impact of a decrease in rates would be an identical reduction in the annual charge.
There is no impact on equity as the analysis relates to the Groups net exposure at the balance sheet date.
Contracts qualifying for hedge accounting are, by definition, part of the Groups covered position.
1 Basis of determining fair value Certain assets and liabilities designated and carried at amortised cost are loans and receivables.
For certain current assets and liabilities their carrying value is equivalent to fair value due to short-term maturity.
Assets and liabilities designated at fair value and the fair value of other financial assets and liabilities have been determined by reference to closing rate market values.
This basis has been used in valuing interest rate instruments, foreign currency hedge contracts and foreign currency denominated long-term fixed rate debt.
Commodity contracts fair values are based on published price quotations.
The fair values are stated at a specific date and may be different from the amounts which will actually be paid or received on settlement of the instruments.
The fair value of items such as property, plant and equipment, internally generated brands or the Groups customer base are not included as these are not financial instruments.
185 Financial Statements Accompanying information continued A7.
Fair value of financial instruments continued A7.2 Fair value hierarchy The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.
Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from unadjusted quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices.
Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total m m m m Financial assets Energy derivatives 335.9 943.9 1,279.8 Interest rate derivatives 471.8 471.8 Foreign exchange derivatives 46.2 46.2 Equity investments 12.5 12.5 335.9 1,474.4 1,810.3 Financial liabilities Energy derivatives 341.9 1,101.2 1,443.1 Interest rate derivatives 403.5 403.5 Foreign exchange derivatives 9.8 9.8 Loans and borrowings 257.4 257.4 341.9 1,257.1 1,599.0 There were no significant transfers out of level 1 into level 2 and out of level 2 into level 1 during the year ended 31 March 2017.
Hedge accounting A8.1 Cash flow hedges The Group designates contracts which qualify as hedges for accounting purposes either as cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
Cash flow hedges are contracts entered into to hedge a forecast transaction or cash flow risk generally arising from a change in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates and which meet the effectiveness criteria prescribed by IAS 39.
The Groups accounting policy on cash flow hedges is explained in the Accompanying Information Section A1.
The following table indicates the contractual maturities of the expected transactions and the qualifying cash flow hedges associated: 2017 2016 2017 Expected 2017 2016 Expected 2016 Carrying cash 0-12 2017 2017 2017 Carrying cash 0-12 2016 2016 2016 Cash flow hedges amount flows months 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years amount flows months 1-2 years 2-5 years 5 years Interest rate swaps: Assets 1.8 1.8 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.9 0.4 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.2 Liabilities 4.0 4.0 0.4 0.4 1.2 2.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 2.2 2.2 0.2 0.2 0.7 1.1 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 Forward exchange contracts: Assets 42.2 474.0 321.2 122.1 30.7 36.5 631.9 460.5 130.3 41.2 Liabilities 9.8 538.6 538.6 7.4 180.3 89.9 90.1 0.3 32.4 1,012.6 859.8 122.1 30.7 29.1 812.2 550.4 220.4 41.5 A8.2 Net investment hedge The Groups net investment hedge consists of debt issued in the same currency as the net investment in foreign subsidiaries with denominated functional currencies being the Airtricity Supply business and the thermal plants and wind farms in Ireland.
The hedge compares the element of the net assets whose functional cash flows are denominated in to the matching portion of the borrowings held by the Group.
This therefore provides protection against movements in foreign exchange rates.
Gains and losses in the hedge are recognised in equity and will be transferred to the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation 2017 22.5m loss, 2016 33.4m loss.
Gains and losses on the ineffective portion of the hedge are recognised immediately in the income statement 2017 nil, 2016 nil.
