Portfolio and otherinformation Portfolio valuation an explanation 3.
If the value attributed to a specic shareholder loan Policy investment in a company is less than its carrying value, The valuation policy is the responsibility of the Board, with ashortfall is implied, which is recognised in our valuation.
additional oversight and annual review from the Valuations In exceptional cases, we may judge that the shortfall is Committee.
Our policy is to value 3is investment portfolio temporary: to recognise the shortfall in such a scenario at fair value and we achieve this by valuing investments on would lead to unrepresentative volatility and hence an appropriate basis, applying a consistent approach across wemaychoose not to recognise the shortfall.
The policy ensures that the portfolio valuation is compliant with the fair value guidelines under IFRS and, in Other factors so doing, is also compliant with the guidelines issued by the In applying this framework, there are additional considerations International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation board that are factored into the valuation of some assets.
The policy covers the Groups Private Impacts from structuring Equity, Infrastructure and the residual Debt Management investment valuations.
Valuations of the investment portfolio of Structural rights are instruments convertible into equity or cash the Group and its subsidiaries are performed at each quarter end.
atspecic points in time or linked to specic events.
For example, where a majority shareholder chooses to sell, and we have a Fair value is the underlying principle and is dened as the price minority interest, we may have the right to a minimum return that would be received to sell an asset in an orderly transaction on our investment.
between market participants at the measurement date IPEV guidelines, December 2015.
Fair value is therefore an estimate Debt instruments, in particular, may have structural rights.
In the and, as such, determining fair value requires the use of judgement.
valuation, it is assumed third parties, such as lenders or holders of convertible instruments, fully exercise any structural rights The quoted assets in our portfolio are valued at their closing bid they might have if they are in the money, and that the value to price at the balance sheet date.
The majority of the portfolio, the Group may therefore be reduced by such rights held by third however, is represented by unquoted investments.
The Groups own structural rights are valued on the basis they are exercisable on the reporting date.
Private Equity unquoted valuation To arrive at the fair value of the Groups unquoted Private Equity Assets classied as terminal investments, we first estimate the entire value of the company If we believe an investment has more than a 50% probability wehave invested in the enterprise value.
We then apportion offailing in the 12 months following the valuation date, we value that enterprise value between 3i, other shareholders and lenders.
the investment on the basis of its expected recoverable amount in the event of failure.
It is important to distinguish between Determining enterprise value our investment failing and the business failing: the failure of The enterprise value is determined using one of a selection our investment does not always mean that the business has of methodologies depending on the nature, facts and failed, just that our recoverable value has dropped signicantly.
This would generally result in the equity and loan components of our investment being valued at nil.
Value movements in the Where possible, we use methodologies which draw heavily period relating to investments classied as terminal are classied on observable market prices, whether listed equity markets as provisions in our value movement analysis.
or reported merger and acquisition transactions, and trading updates from our portfolio.
Infrastructure unquoted valuation As unquoted investments are not traded on an active market, The primary valuation methodology used for Infrastructure the Group adjusts the estimated enterprise value by a liquidity investments is the discounted cash ow method DCF.
The liquidity discount is applied to the total enterprise Fair value is estimated by deriving the present value of the value and we apply a higher discount rate for investments where investment using reasonable assumptions of expected future there are more restrictions on our ability to sell at a time of cash ows and the terminal value and date, and the appropriate our choosing.
risk-adjusted discount rate that quanties the risk inherent to the The table opposite outlines in more detail the range of valuation investment.
The discount rate is estimated with reference to the methodologies available to us, as well as the inputs and market risk-free rate, a risk adjusted premium and information adjustments necessary for each.
specic to the investment or market sector.
Apportioning the enterprise value between 3i, other Debt Management valuation classied as other shareholders and lenders On 3 March 2017, the Group completed the disposal of its Debt Once we have estimated the enterprise value, the following steps Management business to Investcorp for cash consideration of are taken: 270 million.
The remaining CLO assets are held at fair value.
Fund investments are based on reported NAV.
We subtract the value of any claims, net of free cash balances, based on a range of data including broker quotes if available, that are more senior to the most senior of our investments.
trading data where available, and data from third-party 2.
The resulting attributable enterprise value is apportioned valuation providers.
tothe Groups investment, and equal ranking investments by other parties, according to contractual terms and conditions, to arrive at a fair value of the entirety of the investment.
The value is then distributed amongst the different loan, equity and other financial instruments accordingly.
158 3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Portfolio and otherinformation % of investment basis portfolio valued on Methodology Description Inputs Adjustments this basis Earnings Most commonly used Earnings multiples are applied to the earnings of the A liquidity discount is 66% Private Equity Private Equity valuation Company to determine the enterprise value applied to the enterprise methodology value, typically between Earnings 5% and 15%, using factors Used for investments Reported earnings adjusted for non-recurring items, such as our alignment with which are profitable suchas restructuring expenses, for significant corporate management and other andfor which we can actions and, in exceptional cases, run-rate adjustments investors and our determine a set of listed toarrive at maintainable earnings investment rights in companies and precedent Most common measure is earnings before interest, tax, thedeal structure transactions, where depreciation and amortisation EBITDA relevant, with similar Earnings used are usually the management accounts characteristics forthe 12 months to the quarter end preceding the reporting period, unless data from forecasts or the latest audited accounts provides a more reliable picture of maintainable earnings Action is valued using its run-rate earnings to the closest period end as 3is Earnings multiples The earnings multiple is derived from comparable listed companies or relevant market transaction multiples We select companies in the same industry and, where possible, with a similar business model and prole in terms of size, products, services and customers, growth rates and geographic focus We adjust for relative performance in the set of comparables, exit expectations and other company specic factors Quoted Used for investments in Closing bid price at balance sheet date No adjustments or 16% Infrastructure listed companies discounts applied Private Equity Imminent sale Used where an asset is Contracted proceeds for the transaction, or best A discount of typically 2.5% 1% Private Equity inasales process, a price estimate of the expected proceeds is applied to reect any hasbeen agreed but uncertain adjustments to thetransaction has not expected proceeds yetsettled Fund Private Used for investments Net asset value reported by the fund manager Typically no further 2% Equity Other inunlisted funds discount applied in addition to that applied bythe fund manager Specic industry Used for investments in We create a set of comparable listed companies and An appropriate discount 2% metrics Private industries which have well derive the implied values of the relevant metric isapplied, depending on Equity dened metrics as bases the valuation metric used We track and adjust this metric for relative performance, for valuation eg book as in the case of earnings multiples value for insurance Comparable companies are selected using the same underwriters, or regulated criteria as described for the earnings methodology asset bases for utilities Discounted Appropriate for businesses Long-term cash ows are discounted at a rate which Discount already implicit in 11% cash ow with long-term stable isbenchmarked against market data, where possible, the discount rate applied to Private Equity cashows, typically oradjusted from the rate at the initial investment based long-term cash ows no Infrastructure inInfrastructure on changes in the risk prole of the investment further discounts applied Broker Used to value traded Broker quotes obtained from banks which trade the No discount is applied 1% quotes Other debtinstruments specic instruments concerned, benchmarked to a range of other data such as trade data and other quotes Other Used where elements Values of separate elements prepared on one of the Discounts applied 1% Private Equity ofabusiness are valued methodologies listed above toseparate elements ondifferent bases asabove For a small proportion of our smaller investments less than 1% of the portfolio value, the valuation is determined by a more mechanical approach using information from the latest audited accounts.
Equity shares are valued at the higher of an earnings or netassets methodology.
Fixed income shares and loan investments are measured using amortised cost and any implied impairment, in line with IFRS.
Consistent with IPEV guidelines, all equity investments are held at fair value using the most appropriate methodology andnoinvestments are held at historical cost.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 159
