Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 69 Directors Responsibility Statement The Directors are responsible for The Directors are responsible for the preparing the Annual Report and the maintenance and integrity of the financial statements in accordance with corporate and financial information applicable law and regulations.
included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Company law requires the Directors to governing the preparation and prepare financial statements for each dissemination of financial statements financial year.
Under that law the may differ from legislation in other Directors are required to prepare the jurisdictions.
Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial We confirm that to the best of our Reporting Standards IFRSs as knowledge: adopted by the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and The financial statements, prepared in have also chosen to prepare the Parent accordance with IFRSs as adopted Company financial statements under by the EU, give a true and fair view of IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under the assets, liabilities, financial position company law the Directors must not and profit of the Company and the approve the financial statements unless undertakings included in the they are satisfied that they give a true consolidation taken as a whole and fair view of the state of affairs of the The strategic report includes a fair Company and of the profit or loss of the review of the development and Company for that period.
performance of the business and the position of the Company and the In preparing these financial statements, undertakings included in the IAS 1 requires that Directors: consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the Properly select and apply accounting principal risks and uncertainties that policies they face: and Present information, including The Annual Report and financial accounting policies, in a manner that statements, taken as a whole, is fair, provides relevant, reliable, balanced and understandable and comparable and understandable provide the information necessary information forshareholders to assess Provide additional disclosures when theCompanys position and compliance with the specific performance, business model requirements in IFRSs are insufficient andstrategy.
to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, By order of the Board other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial Orla Ball performance: and Company Secretary Make an assessment of the 22 May 2017 Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
