RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING IN A GLOBAL MARKETPLACE Our marketplace Packaging is an essential everyday item with a global market estimated at $839bn and a wide variety of solutions solving many different requirements.
Multiple applications for packaging and end uses DEMOGRAPHY AND SUSTAINABILITY together with a need for regional tailoring drive LIFESTYLE TRENDS In regards to environmental responsibility, a high level of variation.
It therefore follows that the move towards the principles of a circular As countries in emerging markets grow their there is no single driver of the trends observed economy and the responsible disposal of economies and urbanise, demand is created for in the marketplace which is expected to grow by plastic has become a key driver for the industry.
basic packaging as distances between producers 3.5% to $998bn by 2020.
Plastic is recognised as a valuable resource, which and consumers grow and the developing retail should not be littered into the land or marine sector requires product protection and longer RPC serves the market with innovative products environment, but recycled to maintain its value shelf-lives.
manufactured from both rigid and flexible plastic.
and reduce the environmental impact of new Plastic accounts for 37% of the packaging market The rise of smaller households in the developed products which incorporate recycled material.
and over the last five years this market has world drives demand for smaller, re-sealable grown by 5.2% to $312bn in 2015.
The market is packaging for convenience.
The ageing population OUR RESPONSE currently expected to grow by 4.5% resulting in a is fuelling demand for easier to open packaging market size of $389bn in 2020, the higher growth At RPC we are committed to incorporating as well as that with a traditional look and feel.
rate driven by market share gains from glass, sustainability into our overall business strategy Consumers are also demanding healthy products.
paper and metal products by plastic.
and to helping our customers achieve their Innovation is key to finding solutions to increase environmental goals.
We believe that plastic product life and reduce the use of preservatives.
THE PLASTIC PACKAGING MARKET provides a light weight, durable, recyclable Increasing sophistication amongst retailers andlow carbon option for packaging and Global and consumers has resulted in the design of a Packaging non-packaging products.
products packaging becoming an increasingly Market important on-the-shelf differentiator.
We are active at all stages of our products lifecycle from material choice through to recycling OUR RESPONSE at end-of-life to ensure that the products we manufacture contribute to a sustainable and Key to RPCs customer proposition is design circular future for plastic.
Our 31 design and engineering $839bn innovation centres are experienced in Some examples of this include: understanding customers needs and fashioning them into finished products.
Since 2012 over 3 The development of products that use 50 of our products have either won awards or alternative sources of raw material such as been finalists and many of the new products biopolymers or recycled plastics.
we have developed, such as SuperLock, 3 Products that are more resource efficient or Plastic Packaging TM Longlife, AirFree and Slidissime, are aimed at Market have design characteristics that maintain prolonging product life, reducing wastage, adding the value of packaged products and reduce convenience to the end user whilst standing out wastage throughout the supply chain.
Western Glass 7.2% 20.8% 3 Working with external organisations such as Europe RPCs packaging solutions make an important INCPEN, EUPC, The Ellen McArthur Foundation Rigid Plastic 21.4% Eastern Europe 5.8% contribution to preserving products and reducing and RECOUP on areas such as circular design Flexible Plastic 21.8% North America 22.2% waste.
By using innovative multilayer packaging, principles, litter reduction and the recycling South and we ensure that products have a prolonged of plastic.
This helps to reduce the energy America demands on refrigeration in retail and home 3 The acquisition of bpi recycled products and Metal 13.9% Asia 39.1% environments due to the product being able to be ESE World which incorporate plastic recycling Other 4.5% ROW 7.1% stored under ambient conditions whilst ensuring capabilities into the RPC Group.
For more Source: Smithers Pira food remains fresh on shelf reducing spoilage.
information see the case study on page 48.
Our product portfolio also extends to advanced decoration techniques through which customers can create the most effective brand image and product differentiation, and maximise consumer appeal.
10 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 EFFICIENCY IN SUPPLY COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT TECHNICAL COMPONENTS CHAINS The industry is immature in most parts of the Technical components cover many different world, largely developed during the 1960s and product and market combinations which are all Cost optimisation is increasingly important, 1970s.
Companies typically concentrated on linked by innovation, application of technical further driving the lightweighting of packaging serving a particular geography and market with a knowledge and consumption of polymer.
It follows and reducing the amount of packaging required specific conversion technology.
As founders seek that the key driver for growth is the provision of by combining primary and secondary packaging.
to pass their business to the next generation the our innovative product and process engineering This requires the packaging to both be stronger new managers have to decide whether to invest skills to selected niche markets: it draws on and to be shelf display ready.
to cope with changes in the market or divest.
our design and engineering capabilities as the Retailing is changing as online sales take share These changes include: packaging marketplace focuses on products and from traditional bricks-and-mortar propositions.
markets requiring higher value added products.
3 demand for packaging that is consistent across This shift necessitates packaging to be more Having in-house mould making enables our many markets: robust for transportation and reusable for any packaging and non-packaging businesses to returns.
Products are sent in smaller, often control technically challenging customer projects 3 the cost of investment for innovation: individual, packaging rather than bulk packaged with strict product specifications and maintains 3 constant pressures to optimise costs resulting to sales outlets.
Online penetration also results in cutting-edge knowledge within a company.
from a competitive retail environment: products reaching a more international audience.
By increasing the range of products manufactured Producers are therefore expecting packaging to from polymer, scale advantage from increased 3 input material cost volatility and supply issues be consistent across all geographies they serve, purchases can be achieved.
favouring larger companies with power reducing regional differences.
to hedge: OUR RESPONSE OUR RESPONSE 3 lower demand in the developed world: Our technical components proposition has grown The Groups strategy to increase its scale through 3 an ability to follow customers globally as through acquisitions of Ace, Promens, Strata, and organic growth and acquisitions has resulted customers themselves consolidate and ESE World.
This has resulted in the Group having in annualised polymer purchases since the globalise: and a portfolio of branded products and services commencement of Vision 2020 growing from including mould making, materials handling, 3 increasingly sophisticated packaging solutions 310kt to 1,100kt per annum further extending horticulture, fish handling tubs, temporary waste require several manufacturing processes.
solutions, complex interior and exterior plastic It follows that the opportunities for consolidation components for the heavy truck industry, body RPC has managed to reduce the weight of its are significant.
panels for heavy construction machinery and products across all manufacturing processes fuel tanks.
The breadth of the manufacturing through significant innovation investments OUR RESPONSE processes has also been enhanced with roto in tooling, process changes and machinery, moulding, reaction injection moulding and vacuum alongside developments in materials.
Since the launch of our strategy, Vision 2020: forming, with specialty vehicles, as well as our Focused Growth Strategy in 2013, we have Our footprint of 185 operations across 33 Asian precision engineering platform, allowing completed 18 transactions, ranging in size from countries allows us to provide global solutions to supply of co-engineered products.
In addition to its bolt-on businesses with 1 manufacturing site all customers whether they serve global, regional mould making capability, the Group has developed to transformational acquisitions of groups with or local markets.
in-house expertise in electroplating allowing it to 40 sites and global coverage.
In total these supply high quality metallised finishes required for Through acquisition the Group has added acquisitions have added 120 manufacturing sites premium products.
coverage to 14 new geographies since Vision across 14 countries, increasing employees by over 2020.
This increased scale allows us to follow 17,000.
The synergies arising from these deals By participating in this market RPC can undertake customers as they expand into new countries, have added c. 18p of EPS to the results of the more complex, technically demanding projects examples being our new greenfield manufacturing Group.
RPC remains disciplined in its allocation of combined with reduced time to market capability sites in Brazil and China.
capital with close to 300 potential deals having for the customer.
It also enhances our competitive been rejected as not fulfilling the strict acquisition price offering due to the reduced reliance on third criteria we have in place.
We maintain a good party moulds and the associated costs as well as pipeline of opportunities, both large and small, reducing our reliance in third party purchases of and expect further growth through acquisitions.
