RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Parent Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: 3 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: 3 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 3 state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and 3 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Parent Company and Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration report comply with the CA 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Parent Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Parent Companys and the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: 3 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the Parent Company: and 3 the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the Parent Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board SIMON KESTERTON PIM VERVAAT Group Finance Director Chief Executive 7 June 2017 7 June 2017 84
