RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT THE RISKS OF OPERATING IN A GLOBAL MARKET Risk management RPC has a sound risk management framework designed to identify and assess the likelihood of risks arising and the consequences of them doing so, and subsequently manage the actions necessary in order to mitigate their impact to acceptable levels.
RISK OVERVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT RISK REVIEW PROCESS RESPONSIBILITIES The effective identification, management and The Groups risk management framework provides mitigation of risks and uncertainties across a consistent methodology by which every business The responsibility for risk management rests the Group are an integral part of successfully and division, the Group Executive team and ultimately with the Board.
However, the basis of delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
The ultimately the Board, assess the risks that the the approach is instilled in the Groups culture Risk management and internal control section of Group faces against a defined set of probability which encourages effective collaboration.
the Audit Committee report on page 64 includes and impact criteria.
A formalised process of The flat management structure means that the further information on the specific procedures risk identification is undertaken annually at an Group Executive is actively involved in ensuring designed to identify, manage and mitigate individual business level, assessing the impact adherence to the Groups risk management risks that could have a material impact on the of external and internal risks.
These risks are policies and procedures, including risk Groups business, financial condition or results of evaluated in terms of their potential impact and identification and mitigation actions.
operations and for monitoring the Companys risk likelihood, and mitigating actions considered.
The key roles and responsibilities for the Groups management and internal control systems.
Management then consolidates the risk risk management strategy are shown below and information at both a divisional level and Group The Companys risk management framework demonstrate the interaction between the Board level using risk registers, culminating in the Group provides a consistent methodology by which the and divisional management teams in ensuring risk assessment.
The Group Executive reviews the businesses, divisions, the Group Executive and effective risk management is applied across the Group risk assessment, the relevant controls and ultimately the Board assess the risks that the Groups activities.
other steps taken to mitigate the risks identified Group faces against a defined set of probability and the assurance procedures in place over such and impact criteria.
controls with a view to determining whether any further actions are required in order to reduce In accordance with the 2016 UK Corporate the levels of risk to acceptable levels.
The risk Governance Code, the Board is able to confirm assessment is submitted for review and approval that it carried out a robust assessment of the by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board.
Groups principal risks during 2016 17, which are presented in this section of the Annual Report.
THE BOARD Overall responsibility for corporate strategy, governance, performance, internal controls and risk management AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP EXECUTIVE TEAM INTERNAL AUDIT Reviews effectiveness of the risk Management of the business and Monitors compliance with the management framework and delivery of strategy Groups internal control systems internal controls on behalf of Engages with Internal Controls the Board Committee to ensure internal Oversees effectiveness of the controls and risk management Groups internal audit function processes operate effectively THE DIVISIONAL & BUSINESS MANAGERS Responsible for implementation of risk mitigation actions and monitoring compliance with internal controls and procedures at the operational level of the business Reviews the risk management framework to identify risk trends and recommend actions Oversight and delivery of project level risk management activities 26 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 RISK PROFILE RISK HEAT MAP The Group operates in both packaging and non-packaging business environments and across Polymer Key Physical Contaminated price a number of geographies in which risks and customers risks supplies availability uncertainties exist, not all of which are necessarily within the Companys control.
The risks identified in the 2016 17 Annual Report remain those of Funding most concern to the business in the current year.
Integration of Economic Business and financial Competitors acquisitions cycle interruption risks The principal risks identified as affecting the Group are unchanged from the previous year, with the impact of integration risk being recognised as increasing during the year given the recent acceleration in acquisitions made by the Group.
The Board is also continuing to monitor the potential risks associated with the June 2016 referendum vote for the UK to leave the European LOW PROBABILITY HIGH Union.
It is too early to understand properly the impact that the UK leaving the European Union will have on the Groups operations.
However, c. 73% of its products are manufactured outside The directors have taken account of the Groups these risks are most likely to relate to the impact of the UK and its remaining businesses can principal risks in assessing the prospects of the of foreign exchange volatility, an economic generally withstand periods of economic volatility Company when considering whether there is a slowdown in the UK and the imposition of trade due to their robust market positions in relatively reasonable expectation that the Group will be able tariffs.
The economic slowdown and exposure to defensive end-markets.
Therefore the risk relating to continue operations and meet its liabilities as foreign exchange volatility are already included to trade tariffs is considered to be a Group risk but they fall due over the period of their assessment.
With respect to trade risks is not currently thought to be a principal risk.
RPC is relatively well placed to deal with these as PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group and the steps taken to mitigate such risks and uncertainties are summarised below.
The risks identified do not comprise all of the risks that the Group may face, as the Group risk register shows a number of lower categorised risks which are not shown below.
Accordingly this summary is not intended to be exhaustive.
The risk categories of the principal risks shown High, Medium, Low are unchanged from the previous year, but the change in risk movement within these categories is highlighted for each risk.
In addition their linkage to the Groups strategic objectives and their consideration in producing the Groups viability statement are also indicated.
ASSESSMENT AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION CHANGE MOVEMENT 1.
POLYMER Polymer resin, which is the key raw The Group is able to pass on the majority of polymer Risk: High PRICE AND material used in the manufacture of price increases to its customers through agreed Change: Stable AVAILABILITY plastic products, represented 36% of contractual terms, providing an effective hedge against Remains a significant driver of the costs of the business in 2016 17. polymer price changes albeit with a time lag.
margin variability for most of the Polymer prices are subject to volatility The Group has also reduced its dependence on individual Groups businesses.
and are impacted by changes in global polymer suppliers by adapting its manufacturing sites supply and demand, as well as tending Link to Strategy: to convert a wider range of polymer grades, to improve to follow the underlying price of oil.
ORGANIC GROWTH supply competitiveness and mitigate against In addition some sources of supply disruption.
polymer supply are affected by plant breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in shortages.
DEPENDENCE The Group has long established There is a high degree of mutual dependency between Risk: Medium ON KEY relationships with a number of RPC and its customers and because of the Groups Change: Reducing CUSTOMERS key customers, with the top 20 size, product range, geographical reach and the joint As the Group grows in both product accounting for c. 25% of sales in investment often required to develop a product, many diversity and geographical reach, its 2016 17.
The loss of any one of these customers have difficulty in moving their business to an reliance on single key customers is customers could adversely affect the alternative supplier in the short term.
Groups results in the short term.
is also strengthened by the Group remaining responsive to customer demands, by delivering high quality products, Link to Strategy: providing excellent customer service and developing ORGANIC GROWTH innovative products that can generate new sales opportunities for our customers.
COM LOW IMPACT HIGH RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT THE RISKS OF OPERATING IN A GLOBAL MARKET Risk management Continued ASSESSMENT AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION CHANGE MOVEMENT The market for plastic packaging and The Group differentiates itself from its competitors by Risk: Medium 3.
PRICING AND COMPETITIVE the other non-packaging markets in establishing long-term relationships with its customers Change: Stable PRESSURES which the Group operates, have become through bespoke product development and through Competitor pressure and its impact increasingly competitive, particularly investing in new and innovative capabilities across on pricing remains unchanged in most where there has been consolidation a wide range of conversion technologies.
or overcapacity, exacerbated by the the Group has improved its competitive position in the Link to Strategy: economic recession.
An increasing challenging economic environment of the last few years ORGANIC GROWTH focus on pricing by customers and the by focusing on cost reduction, improving productivity use of formalised tender processes puts and optimising its manufacturing footprint through its pressure on margins and may lead to recent business improvement programmes and business lost business where customers have the integration process.
capability to switch to other suppliers.
ECONOMIC The continued impact of the challenging The Group operates in a number of different markets Risk: Medium ENVIRONMENT economic environment in the UK and product, geographical, end customer or niches, which Change: Stable AND CYCLICAL the Eurozone, as well as the recent serves to dilute the effect of adversity in any one The Group remains responsive to cyclical PATTERNS IN downturn in the emerging markets, has particular sector.
trends in demand, to ensure that overall THEPLASTIC resulted in reduced demand for some returns are protected.
This includes The Group actively monitors the economic environments PACKAGING AND of our businesses.
Other factors, such assessing the impact of the UK leaving in which it operates and patterns of demand, the impact NON-PACKAGING as changes in consumer preferences the European Union.
this has on its businesses and responds by incremental and MARKETS and packaging trends, also impact structural changes to its operations where appropriate.
Link to Strategy: on demand.
ORGANIC GROWTH SIGNIFICANT PRESENCE OUTSIDE EUROPE 5.
INTEGRATION Acquisitions require a focused business The Group ensures appropriate resources are in place to Risk: Medium AND integration effort to deliver planned manage the integration of each acquisition, with regular Change: Increasing ACHIEVEMENT synergies which if not properly managed executive and Board progress reviews of any required The recent increase in acquisition activity OF ACQUISITION or resourced could lead to a failure to restructuring activities and benefits arising there from.
has increased the impact of this risk on SYNERGIES deliver value for the Group from its Vision Group performance.
Integration programmes are developed and organisational 2020 growth programme.
changes made to existing Group or divisional management Link to Strategy: teams and infrastructures, as well as those of the acquired CONSOLIDATION IN EUROPE business, as appropriate.
SIGNIFICANT PRESENCE OUTSIDE EUROPE Key management of acquired businesses are retained.
Key High Medium Low risk risk risk Increasing Stable Decreasing 28 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 ASSESSMENT AREA OF RISK DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION CHANGE MOVEMENT Businesses face the potential risk of The Group ensures that alternative sources of supply are Risk: Medium 6. BUSINESS INTERRUPTION operations being affected by disruption available where possible, and where a problem is localised Change: Stable AND THE LOSS due to loss of supply, failures with in many cases it is possible to manufacture or supply the The recent increase in size of the Group, OF ESSENTIAL technology, industrial disputes and product from another site within the Group.
In addition all with a concomitant increase in number SUPPLIES physical damage arising from fire, businesses have established protocols and procedures to of self-serving manufacturing operations, flood or other catastrophe.
The loss of ensure business continuity in the event of a major incident.
reduces the potential impact of an essential services or supplies could have incident on any one site, but overall risk a significant impact on the Groups ability to the Group is unchanged.
Link to Strategy: ORGANIC GROWTH The Groups reputation as a business The Group employs strict control measures and externally Risk: Medium 7.
SUPPLY OF FAULTY OR partner relies heavily on its ability to accredited systems to ensure the safety and quality of Change: Stable CONTAMINATED supply quality products on time and in products that are manufactured.
The Group also has Reputational and financial risks PRODUCTS full.
The supply of faulty or contaminated appropriate insurance in place to cover product liability.
associated with faulty supply products, especially within the food remain unchanged.
sector, could have serious consequences.
Link to Strategy: ORGANIC GROWTH 8.
SAFEGUARDING The risk of fire represents a significant Business sites have sprinkler and or smoke detection Risk: Medium PHYSICAL physical risk to the Group and the impact systems in place together with other preventive measures.
Change: Stable PROPERTY of a major catastrophe of this nature Risk of fire remains unchanged, as Health and safety audits are regularly performed, AND OUR could be considerable.
evidenced by recent incidents at Eke in conjunction with internal and external specialists, EMPLOYEES Belgium.
The health and safety of our employees to drive sites to best practice.
is the number one priority at all of Health & safety focus currently on newly our sites.
acquired businesses to bring to RPC standard.
Link to Strategy: ORGANIC GROWTH Risks relate to the cost and availability The Groups treasury activities are governed by policies Risk: Medium 9.
FUNDING AND FINANCIAL of funding for the Groups businesses, and procedures approved and monitored by the Board.
Change: Decreasing RISKS movements in interest rates and foreign Recent equity and debt raised provides The Group negotiates funding requirements in a timely currency exchange rates.
The Group has the Group with considerable funding manner ensuring appropriate headroom and funding a translation exposure to the euro, as the headroom, allowing it to continue with tenure is obtained to mitigate availability risk.
The Group majority of the Groups earnings and net its Vision 2020 growth strategy and borrows at both fixed and floating rates to give a degree of assets are reported in this currency.
withstand any temporary adversity in stability to the interest rate charged each year.
balance sheet translation exposure to foreign currencies are hedged by ensuring that borrowings are matched to the Link to Strategy: Groups net assets in foreign currencies, and any significant CONSOLIDATION IN EUROPE transactional exposures are managed using approved SIGNIFICANT PRESENCE financial derivatives.
