STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Glossary CDP Corn gluten feed A CDP is an international environmental The largest Tate & Lyle co-product, used Acidulants reporting and benchmarking by dairy and beef cattle markets.
organisation that holds and publishes Ingredients such as citric acid that are CSDs used to add a sour taste to food and soft the largest collection globally of self-reported climate change, water and drinks and to act as a preservative.
forest-risk data from companies and Adjusted operating cash flow cities worldwide.
Through CDP, investors, companies and cities are D Adjusted operating cash flow is defined better able to mitigate risk, capitalise on as adjusted free cash flow from Discontinued operations opportunities and make investment continuing operations, adding back net decisions that drive action towards a An operation is classified as discontinued interest paid, tax paid and retirement more sustainable world.
cash contributions, and excluding if it is a component of the Group that: i has been disposed of, or meets the derivative and margin call movements CLARIA within working capital.
criteria to be classified as held for sale: Functional Clean-Label Starches.
and ii represents a separate major line Adjusted operating profit of business or geographic area of Clean label PBITEA operations: or will be disposed of as part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose A term used in the food and beverage Operating profit as defined separately, of a separate major line of business or industry generally to refer to shorter or adjusted for amortisation of acquired geographic area of operations.
simpler ingredient lists that appeal more intangible assets and net to some consumers than those exceptional items.
DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose containing complex ingredients.
Adjusted profit before tax Interpretations may vary.
Low-calorie sugar that offers a superior, new taste experience.
PBTEA Commodities Profit before tax as defined separately, Commodities include US ethanol and adjusted for amortisation of acquired F co-products.
intangible assets, net exceptional items and net retirement benefit interest.
Food Systems Constant currency The Tate & Lyle blending business which Where changes in constant currency are is part of SFI and which sources presented, they are calculated by B ingredients and uses them to develop retranslating current year results at bespoke combinations of ingredients BI prior year exchange rates.
represents a change to the methodology Bulk Ingredients division.
applied in previous years, which involved TM Bio-PDO retranslating prior year results at G current year exchange rates.
This Multi-purpose monomer propanediol change, which has not had a material made from corn sugar as opposed to Greenhouse gas GHG impact, has been made to align with how being made from a petrochemical Any of the following: carbon dioxide the majority of external stakeholders source.
Used in cosmetics, detergents, CO, methane CH, nitrous oxide N O, view constant currency performance 2 4 2 carpets and textiles.
Reconciliations of the perfluorocarbons PFCs, sulphur movement in constant currency have hexafluoride SF.
been included in the additional 6 C information on page 189.
Capex H Continuing operations Capital expenditure.
Operations of the Group excluding any HFCS Carbon dioxide equivalent discontinued operations as defined High fructose corn syrup, also called separately.
One metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an Co-products amount of any other greenhouse gas Corn gluten feed, corn gluten meal and with an equivalent global warming I corn oil.
potential, calculated consistently with ICD international carbon reporting practices.
Core Bulk Ingredients Innovation and Commercial Development Bulk Ingredients excluding Commodities.
group, supporting our two business divisions, SFI and BI.
com 191 Glossary continued K P KRYSTAR Crystalline Primary capacity Fructose The processing capacity, at the first stage of production, in which the agricultural A nutritive corn based sweetener.
raw material enters the production process.
L Profit before tax PBT Label friendly Sales, less net operating expense, less net finance expense and including the Denotes ingredients that, when listed on product ingredient labels, may appeal Groups share of profit after tax of joint ventures.
more to some consumers who show a preference for ingredients in food PROMITOR Soluble Fibre products which they feel are more transparent, authentic, simpler or easier A prebiotic soluble fibre.
to understand than alternatives which PromOat Beta Glucan may be perceived by some consumers as being artificial, chemical or in some way A soluble fibre made from wholegrain less authentic.
oats used to bring the health benefits of oat beta glucan to food and beverages.
M R MULTIVANTAGE Syrup REZISTA speciality food starch A low-sugar, low-viscosity sweetener.
A modified starch made from waxy corn which builds and protects texture N in foods.
Natural A natural description usually refers to a S food ingredient that is present in nature SFI and has been minimally processed.
However, interpretations vary according Speciality Food Ingredients division.
to the different legal and regulatory landscape in different countries.
SPLENDA Sucralose A zero-calorie sweetener, the New Products manufacturing process for which starts New Products are products in the first with sugar.
STA-LITE Polydextrose A soluble fibre with prebiotic properties O made from corn and used to provide body and texture in reduced calorie, Operating profit also referred no-added sugar and high-fibre foods.
to as profit before interest and tax PBIT T Sales less net operating expense.
TASTEVA Stevia Sweetener A zero-calorie sweetener made from stevia.
U USDA US Department of Agriculture.
192 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Definitions explanatory notes Non-reliance statement Basis of preparation Environmental statement This Annual Report has been prepared Unless stated otherwise, the Groups This Annual Report has been printed on solely to provide additional information to financial statements are prepared in UPM Fine offset, a paper produced using shareholders to assess the Groups accordance with International Financial wood fibre from fully sustainable forests strategy and the potential of that strategy Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted with Forest Stewardship Council FSC to succeed, and should not be relied by the EU.
All pulps used are upon by any other party or for any elemental chlorine free and the Amortisation other purpose.
manufacturing mill holds the ISO 14001 and the EMAS accreditations for their Unless stated otherwise, the use of the Cautionary statement environmental management systems.
word amortisation on pages 1 to 99 in This Annual Report contains certain this Annual Report relates to the Printed in the UK by Pureprint using forward-looking statements with respect amortisation of intangible assets vegetable inks and its Alcofree and to the financial condition, results, acquired through business combinations.
Pureprint environmental printing operations and businesses of technology.
Pureprint is a Continuing operations Tate & Lyle PLC.
These statements and CarbonNeutral company, is registered forecasts involve risk and uncertainty Unless stated otherwise, all comments to the Environmental Management because they relate to events and in this Annual Report refer to the System Standard ISO 14001 and is FSC depend upon circumstances that may continuing operations adjusted to chain-of-custody certified.
There are a number exclude exceptional items, amortisation If you have finished with this Annual of factors that could cause actual results of intangible assets acquired through Report and no longer wish to retain it, or developments to differ materially from business combinations, net retirement please pass it on to other interested those expressed or implied by these benefit interest and tax on the above readers or dispose of it in your recycled forward-looking statements items and tax items that themselves paper waste.
A reconciliation of reported and adjusted information is The CO emissions from the production 2 Tate & Lyle PLC included in Note 4 of the consolidated and distribution of this Annual Report Tate & Lyle PLC is a public limited financial statements.
have been offset through the purchase of company listed on the London Stock carbon credits in the Pureprint Gold Definitions Exchange and is registered in England programme.
The offsets are always in and Wales.
In this Annual Report: Gold Standard accredited projects and currently come from the Basa Magogo More information about Tate & Lyle can Company means Tate & Lyle PLC project in South Africa.
The first Gold be found on the Companys website, Tate & Lyle, Group, we, us or our Standard project of its kind in the world, www.
means Tate & Lyle PLC and this innovative behaviour-change its subsidiaries programme teaches local communities Gemacom means Tate & Lyle in South Africa to burn coal more Gemacom Tech Indstria e Comrcio efficiently, thereby reducing carbon S. A. emissions and reducing health risks by Almex means Almidones producing less smoke.
Mexicanos SA Bio-PDO means DuPont Tate & Lyle Bio Products Company, LLC review during the year means review during the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
Registered office Tate & Lyle PLC 1 Kingsway London WC2B 6AT Tel: 44 0 20 7257 2100 Fax: 44 0 20 7257 2200 Designed and produced by Company number: 76535 Black Sun Plc www.
com Tate&Lyle Annual Report 2017 www.
