Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2017 14.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY continued Immature stores: value uncertainty C&W have assessed the value of each property individually.
However, one of the Groups stores is relatively immature and has low initial cash flows.
C&W have endeavoured to reflect the nature of the cash flow profile for this property in their valuation, and the higher associated risks relating to the as yet unproven future cash flows, by adjustment to the capitalisation rates and discount rates adopted.
However, immature low cash flow stores of this nature are rarely, if ever, traded individually in the market, unless as part of a distressed sale or similar situation.
Although, there is more evidence of immature low cash flow stores being traded as part of a group or portfolio transaction.
Please note C&Ws comments in relation to market uncertainty in the self storage sector due to the lack of comparable market transactions and information.
The degree of uncertainty relating to the immature store is greater than in relation to the balance of the properties due to there being even less market evidence that might be available for more mature properties and portfolios.
C&W state that in practice, if an actual sale of the properties were to be contemplated then any immature low cash flow stores would normally be presented to the market for sale lotted or grouped with other more mature assets owned by the same entity, in order to alleviate the issue of negative or low short term cash flow.
This approach would enhance the marketability of the group of assets and assist in achieving the best price available in the market by diluting the cash flow risk.
C&W have not adjusted their opinion of Fair Value to reflect such a grouping of the immature asset with other properties in the portfolio and all stores have been valued individually.
However, they highlight the matter to alert the Group to the manner in which the properties might be grouped or lotted in order to maximise their attractiveness to the market place.
C&W consider this approach to be a valuation assumption but not a Special Assumption, the latter being an assumption that assumes facts that differ from the actual facts existing at the valuation date and which, if not adopted, could produce a material difference in value.
As noted above, C&W have not assumed that the entire portfolio of properties owned by the entity would be sold as a single lot and the value for the whole portfolio in the context of a sale as a single lot may differ significantly from the aggregate of the individual values for each property in the portfolio, reflecting the lotting assumption described above.
Valuation assumption for purchasers costs The Groups investment property assets have been valued for the purposes of the financial statements after deducting notional purchasers cost of circa 6.1% to 6.8% of gross value, as if they were sold directly as property assets.
The valuation is an asset valuation which is entirely linked to the operating performance of the business.
The assets would have to be sold with the benefit of operational contracts, employment contracts and customer contracts, which would be very difficult to achieve except in a corporate structure.
This approach follows the logic of the valuation methodology in that the valuation is based on a capitalisation of the net operating income after allowing a deduction for operational cost and an allowance for central administration costs.
Sale in a corporate structure would result in a reduction in the assumed Stamp Duty Land Tax but an increase in other transaction costs reflecting additional due diligence resulting in a reduced notional purchasers cost of 2.75% of gross value.
All the significant sized transactions that have been concluded in the UK in recent years were completed in a corporate structure.
The Group therefore instructed C&W to carry out a Red Book valuation on the above basis, and this results in a higher property valuation at 31 March 2017 of 1,258.5 million 68.0 million higher than the value recorded in the financial statements.
The total valuations in the two Armadillo Partnerships performed by Jones Lang LaSalle are 2.5 million higher than the value recorded in the financial statements, of which the Groups share is 0.5 million.
The sum of these is 68.5 million and translates to 43.2 pence per share.
We have included this revised valuation in the adjusted diluted net asset calculation see note 14.
SURPLUS LAND 000 At 31 March 2016 300 Disposal 300 At 31 March 2017 During the year the remaining surplus land was sold at book value.
During the prior year a gain of 4,754,000 arose on the disposal of surplus land at one site during the year including the release of a prior year impairment.
