Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect Responsibility Statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view with applicable law and regulations.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent taken as a whole: and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements the Annual Report and Accounts include a fair review of in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the development and performance of the business and the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable position of the Company and the undertakings included in the law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and performance, business model and strategy.
parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Approved by order of the Board.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Dennis Millard Chairman make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 24 May 2017 and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Group website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
98 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 98 07 06 2017 16:38:47 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 99 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 99 07 06 2017 16:38:49 slugline slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 100 07 06 2017 16:38:51 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial Statements Auditors Report 102 Index to Financials 107 Consolidated Income Statement 108 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 109 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 110 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 111 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 112 Notes to Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 113 Accounting Policies 114 Notes to the Financial Statements 121 Company Balance Sheet 140 Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 141 Accounting Policies 142 Notes to the Financial Statements 143 slugline slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 101 07 06 2017 16:38:54
