Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report BIG YELLOW RECOGNISES THAT A HIGH LEVEL OF CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR, LINKED TO CLEAR COMMERCIAL OBJECTIVES, WILL CREATE A MORE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AND INCREASE SHAREHOLDER AND CUSTOMER VALUE.
1.0 INTRODUCTION Big Yellow recognises that a high level of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, linked to clear commercial objectives, will create a more sustainable business and increase shareholder and customer value.
Our CSR Policy covers all of our operations, as a self storage provider, a property developer, an employer and a participant in our local communities.
Big Yellow seeks to meet the demand for self storage from businesses and private individuals by providing the storage space for their commercial and or domestic needs, whilst aiding local employment creation and contributing to local community regeneration.
2.0 CSR EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Big Yellow is pleased to deliver another year of steady Corporate Responsibility progress across the Group, full details of which can be found in this CSR Report.
Our focus over the last year has delivered the following benefits: Employee Engagement We completed an externally managed survey in May 2016 investigating amongst other factors our working life, personal development, teamwork, communication and management style in detail.
We received a 90% response rate to the survey and overall a 90% Engagement Indicator from our employees.
Support for Local Charities We have continued to recognise and support 14 different charities selected by both our stores and head office teams.
Our people undertook a variety of activities for these and other charities and raised 74,000 of funds during the year up 66% on 2016.
At the same time Big Yellow and Armadillo donated the equivalent of over 940,000 of free storage in the last year up 25% on 2016.
The Big Yellow Foundation We registered a new charitable Foundation in January 2017.
We are currently piloting the use of the Foundation to raise money from both Big Yellow and its customers.
Following the conclusion of this pilot, we will launch it to the whole business in autumn 2017.
The aim of the Foundation will be to use the funds to support charities working to bring people back into society from disadvantaged backgrounds.
We will also aim to provide them with employment opportunities at Big Yellow and Armadillo.
Health & Safety Record This has continued at a high standard at both our stores and on our construction projects.
Measured by both the number of recorded Minor Injuries and by RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation, our high standards of Health & Safety have protected our customers, staff, contractors and other visitors.
LED Lighting Investment We have continued to invest in providing LED lighting both inside our stores, and more recently for all of our external lighting.
During the next 12 months we will continue to deliver the benefit of LED lighting to all of our external lighting sources and to both Big Yellow & Armadillo stores that still require internal lighting improvement after recent acquisition.
Greenhouse Gas GHG Emission Our store electricity use in absolute terms is now 31.3% lower than our peak use year of 2011.
Our ability to continue to reduce our absolute electrical use will diminish, as we complete our LED investment program and as we open and acquire new stores.
However, our relative GHG Emission per sq metre occupied is down 63.8% from our peak year of 2011 and we aim to continue with this relative reduction.
CSR Performance Benchmarking 42% of our stores have EPCs Energy Performance Certificates the majority of which are rated A or B.
We will also continue to participate in our sustainable benchmarking initiatives with EPRA, FTSE4Good, the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and the Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
40 WE RECOGNISE THE IMPORTANCE OF SUPPORTING LOCAL COMMUNITY PROJECTS AND CHARITIES THROUGH FUNDRAISING AND DONATING FREE STORAGE SPACE.
DURING THE YEAR WE DONATED SPACE IN OUR STORES WORTH APPROXIMATELY 940,000 TO CHARITIES.
2.1 OUR PEOPLE Our people are at the heart of Big Yellows business, bringing our values to life through the service that they provide and through the energy and passion that drives us to become an ever more responsible and sustainable business.
We recognise that recruiting, retaining and motivating individuals with talent and integrity, and ensuring that we listen to our people and maximise their skills and performance, is key to the continued success of our Company.
We encourage a culture of partnership within the business and believe in staff participating in corporate performance through benefits such as customer feedback rewards, bonus schemes and share incentives.
We recognise and reward the exceptional performance, achievements and ideas of our people through a Points Recognition Scheme, and allocated 53,000 of points for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Wellbeing and Support We aim to promote employee wellbeing through a range of flexible working options, which include flexitime, staggered working hours, home working and sabbaticals.
We provide Childcare Vouchers along with a comprehensive range of medical support and advice through our private healthcare scheme and occupational health providers.
We have arranged corporate gym membership on a national basis, as well as a Cycle to Work scheme and Employee Assistance Programmes.
Communication and Engagement We continue to recognise the importance of communication and consultation with an annual Spring Conference, regular formal and informal meetings, quarterly newsletters and weekly operational updates.
In addition, the Directors and Senior Management spend a significant amount of time in the stores and are always accessible to employees, at all levels.
In May 2016, we ran our second externally managed Employee Engagement Survey which was structured to look at key areas including our day to day working life, learning and development, team work, communication, management style and leadership.
The survey achieved a response rate of 90% also 90% in 2014 and an Engagement Indicator of 90% 86% in 2014.
Management are now using the feedback from the Engagement Survey as the focus of their attention to further improve the working environment.
Training and Development We continue to promote the development of our staff through ongoing training and regular performance appraisals.
For the year ended 31 March 2017 a total of 1,267 days training were provided across the Company, comprising of both sales and operational training, and personal and management development.
We have continued to develop our internal training resources to include e-learning on security, a Health & Safety library, 17 operational and sales based workshops and 10 centrally run courses covering induction, management training and personal development.
During the year, six team members completed our personal development programme designed specifically for Assistant Store Managers, with three of those people having subsequently been promoted to the position of Store Manager.
13 Assistant Store Managers are currently participating in the new programme, to prepare them for their future progression within the Company as opportunities arise.
During the year a new development programme for our Sales Advisors was also introduced, the aim of which is to prepare them for promotion to the position of Assistant Manager.
The programme will run on an annual basis with 14 Sales Advisors currently participating.
As a result of our other internal training and development programmes, 53% of our store based staff have been promoted to their current position from a more junior position.
41 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.1 OUR PEOPLE continued Community We continue to recognise the importance of contributing to the local community and we encourage our people to develop close links with charities, schools and other institutions, both locally and nationally, to help to build more economically sustainable environments.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, we recognised and supported 14 different charities which were selected by our store and head office teams.
Our people undertook a variety of activities for both these and other charities with donations also being made by the Company.
Throughout the year a total of 74,000 was raised for our recognised charities and examples of our fundraising activities and charitable giving have included: The Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice, Surrey Team members have participated in various charity runs and other events to raise a total of 4,000 across the year for this Surrey-based hospice.
Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice Care is delighted to have worked with Big Yellow Self Storage over the last year and would like to thank the Directors and staff for their fundraising.
Their events have been creative and good fun, from sweepstakes, raffles and walks to a Halloween chilli lunch.
They have also supported us through sponsorship, taking the yellow colour stand at our annual Dash of Colour Run.
Without the help of corporate partners like Big Yellow we simply couldnt provide the compassionate end of life care that we do.
Vanessa Beech, Corporate Partnerships Fundraiser, Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice Care British Heart Foundation Nine of our stores have acted as Donation Stations for the British Heart Foundation, raising a total of just under 20,000 for the year from collecting bags of unwanted clothes and household goods.
The funds raised will support the charitys pioneering heart research, as well as the care of people living with heart disease.
Dorothy Stringer School, Brighton Big Yellow has donated 8,500 as lead sponsor of this Brighton-based schools planned football tour of South Africa during 2017.
20 students will be given the opportunity to participate in the tour, during which they will take part in scheduled games, as well as visiting various schools and township charities to enable them to fully appreciate the culture of the country.
Two years ago we set out to create a once-in-a-lifetime experience for the current Year 10 football team: a tour to South Africa.
It soon became clear that the trip was going to cost around 50,000 and it was great to receive a donation of 8,500 towards the cost from Big Yellow.
This will enable us to offer the students an eye opening experience, as well as kitting them out in tour attire.
We are very grateful to Big Yellow Self Storage for their support in helping to make this life changing event happen.
Charlotte Young, Teacher of Physical Education, Dorothy Stringer School Go Dad Run Big Yellow has provided sponsorship of 20,000 for the Go Dad Run in June 2016, the aim of which is to raise awareness of, and funds for, Prostate Cancer UK through a series of 5k and 10k runs in different cities around the UK.
For a small but growing project like Go Dad Run, the relationship with our sponsors is absolutely crucial and in 2016 we were, once again, enormously grateful for the wonderful support from Big Yellow Storage.
It was the third year of our partnership and we staged 5K and 10K runs in Sunderland, London, Worcester, Cardiff, Bristol and the Isle of Man, where many hundreds of men and boys pulled their giant Go Dad Run Y-fronts on over their shorts, to take part and raise funds for Prostate Cancer UK - and to raise awareness of important men's health issues.
Our friends and colleagues at Big Yellow Self Storage were essential to helping us to make that happen.
Colin Jackson, CBE, Founder of Go Dad Run Southwark Tigers Rugby Club, London During the last year, Big Yellow has provided sponsorship of 2,500 to this inner city junior rugby club, whose aim is to benefit young people through the skills learnt in the game of rugby and to make it affordable and attractive to them all.
Caius House, Battersea, London Caius House is a charity and a youth club based in Battersea, which aims to provide young people within the local community with a safe place to go to where their skills and talents can be progressed to fulfil their potential.
During the last year, Big Yellow has provided the Caius House football team with sponsorship of 10,000.
42 Free Storage Space In addition to our fundraising activities, we have also provided charities with free storage space.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the space occupied by charities in Big Yellow and Armadillo stores was 45,500 sq ft, worth approximately 940,000 per annum at current rents.
Some of the many charities that have benefited from this storage include Cancer Research, Macmillan Cancer Support, the National Childbirth Trust, the British Heart Foundation and a number of food bank and childrens charities local to our stores.
The Big Yellow Foundation Big Yellow registered The Big Yellow Foundation in January 2017.
This Foundation will help highly innovative charities transform the lives of vulnerable people across the UK.
Big Yellow will donate 1 every time a customer moves into one of our stores.
We will also ask customers if they would like to join us in supporting our mission at either the point of move in or move out.
The Foundation, which will be launched formally in autumn 2017, will focus its support on charities that have developed effective approaches to help the reintegration, training and employment of ex-offenders and of those fleeing persecution, who have been granted asylum by the UK Government.
Together we believe we can help vulnerable people across the UK to build brighter lives.
Three initial charities that we are working with currently, as part of a soft launch, are Bounce Back, Breaking Barriers and the St Giles Trust.
2.2 OUR HEALTH & SAFETY Big Yellow recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of Health & Safety for our customers, staff, contractors and any visitors to our stores.
The Groups Health & Safety Committee reviews its Policy, Risk Assessments, performance and records on a quarterly basis.
The Policy covers two distinct areas our construction activities and our routine store operations.
The Health & Safety Committee discuss and review any issues reported from our regular meetings held at our head office, Maidenhead our distribution warehouse, the stores and our construction sites.
Our Health & Safety Policy states that all employees have a responsibility for Health & Safety, but that managers have special responsibilities.
The responsibilities of Adrian Lee, Operations Director, are to keep the Board advised on Health & Safety issues and to ensure compliance with the Policy in respect of Construction via the Construction Director and store operations via the Facilities Manager and Head of Store Operations.
The Health & Safety Committee minutes are copied to the CEO, the CSR Manager, the Head of Human Resources, the Facilities Manager and our external Health & Safety consultant.
Externally, other interested stakeholders include the Health & Safety Executive HSE and Local Government Authorities.
Our external Health & Safety consultant reviews our Policy and performs audits of our stores on a rolling programme, to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health & Safety policies and to ensure compliance with the latest Health & Safety standards.
Actions recommended by our consultant are reviewed by the Health & Safety Committee, and if required are then implemented into the operations or construction systems.
External Health & Safety audits are carried out by our consultants on a regular basis on each construction site during the construction process.
Our Health & Safety reporting covers all of our stores, our head office, Maidenhead our distribution warehouse and our construction sites.
Incidents are recorded for staff, customers, contractors and visitors.
The Board receives reports that monitor Health & Safety performance in all these areas.
Annual Store Health & Safety Meetings take place for all stores and Maidenhead.
Meeting agendas are provided for all meetings by the Facilities Team and the minutes are reviewed by Area Managers to raise any issues with our Facilities or Human Resources Teams, where necessary.
Health & Safety performance and incidents are reported and are displayed in the tables below: 2.2.
1 Big Yellow Store Customer, Contractor and Visitor Health and Safety Store Customer, Contractor and Visitor Health & Safety Year ended 31 March 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of customer move-ins 65,807 72,772 75,097 75,438 71,715 Number of minor injuries 34 31 50 58 41 Number of reportable injuries RIDDOR 3 3 4 4 1 RIDDOR per 100,000 staff 4.6 4.1 5.3 5.3 0 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte LLP as part of their assurance work.
See page 58 for the independent assurance report.
RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences.
43 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.2.
1 Big Yellow Store Customer, Contractor and Visitor Health and Safety continued The number of customer move-ins during the last year reduced from 75,438 to 71,715 a 5.0% reduction and this has in part contributed to the reporting of fewer minor injuries from 58 to 41 down 29% in 2017.
One reportable injury to a customer at Finchley North was recorded during the year.
Customer minor injuries were mainly cuts, grazes and strains relating to the handling of their goods.
Most of these injuries and those of visitors could have been avoided by personal protective gloves and foot-wear.
Visitor injuries were due to cuts from their containers, vehicles or business equipment.
2 Big Yellow Staff Health & Safety Stores & Head Office Year ended 31 March 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Average number of staff 286 289 300 318 329 Number of Minor Injuries 15 13 15 10 9 Number of Reportable Injuries RIDDOR 3 1 1 1 0 AIIR per 100,000 staff 1,049 346 333 314 0 Indicates data reviewed by Deloitte LLP.
See page 58 for their independent assurance report.
Annual Injury Incident Rate is the number of staff reportable injuries average number of staff x100,000.
Nine staff injuries reported as minor injuries were related to hand or arm injuries.
There were no Fatal Injuries, Notices or Prosecutions during the year ended 31 March 2017.
This year our staff training schedules enabled us to provide customers with Fire Health & Safety Risk Assessments, where necessary, which raised their awareness of the potential for personal injuries while they used self storage.
Two new stores, at Nine Elms and Twickenham 2, were acquired in the year and our Cambridge store was open for the full financial year.
These changes have increased our average number of staff employed to 329 for the year.
Against this increase we have achieved a reduction in Minor Injuries from 2016.
Minor Injuries were mainly cuts, grazes and bruises relating to safety when using stairwells, doors and pallets.
There were no reportable injuries for staff in the year, so the Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR decreased to zero against an average store staff increase of 3.5%.
Total minor injuries for staff, customers, contractors and visitors was 50 and were recorded as follows: 34 to customers, nine to staff, six to visitors and one to a contractor.
3 Big Yellow Construction Fit Out Health & Safety Construction Fit-out Contractors and Visitor Health & Safety Year ended 31 March 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Number of Total Man Days 610 3,315 3,005 6,560 1,111 Number of Minor Injuries 0 2 1 3 0 Number of Reportable Injuries RIDDOR 0 0 0 0 0 There were no Man Days worked on construction Fit Out projects for new stores in 2017.
However, our storage partitioning contractors recorded 1,111 man days of work for fitting out storage partitioning in our existing stores.
No Minor Injuries or Reportable Injuries were recorded during these works.
Our ground works contractor at the new Guildford Central store was in the early piling phase and was assessed by the independent Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS in February 2017.
This scheme monitors and reports on the Health & Safety management and environmental aspects of our construction projects.
High scores of 7 10 were achieved for Securing everyones Safety and Care about Appearance.
Good scores of 6 10 were achieved for Respecting the Community, Valuing the Workforce and Protecting the Environment.
There were no Fatal Injuries, Notices, or Prosecutions during the year ended 31 March 2017.
