Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Important information Registered office and headquarters Enquiring about your shareholding AO Park If you want to ask, or need any information, about your shareholding, 5A The Parklands please contact our registrar see contact details in the opposite Lostock column.
Alternatively, if you have internet access, you can access the Bolton BL6 4SD Groups shareholder portal via www.
com where you can view and manage all aspects of your shareholding securely.
Registered number: 5525751 Tel: 01204 672400 Investor relations website Web: www.
com The investor relations section of our website, www.
com corporate, provides further information for anyone interested in AO.
In addition Company Secretary to the Annual Report and share price, Company announcements Julie Finnemore including the full year results announcements and associated Email: cosec@ao.
com presentations are also published there.
Joint Stockbrokers Share dealing service J. P. Morgan Securities plc You can buy or sell the Companys shares in a simple and 25 Bank Street convenient way via the Capita share dealing service either online Canary Wharf www.
Calls are London E14 5JP charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK are charged at the applicable international rate.
Jefferies International Limited Lines are open between 8am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday Vintners Place excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
68 Upper Thames Street London EC3V 3BJ Please note that the Directors of the Company are not seeking to encourage shareholders to either buy or sell shares in the Company.
Numis Securities Limited Shareholders in any doubt about what action to take are recommended The London Stock Exchange Building to seek financial advice from an independent financial advisor 10 Paternoster Square authorised by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
London EC4M 7LT Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements Independent Auditor Certain statements made in this report are forward-looking KPMG LLP statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and 1 St Peters Square assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties Manchester that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any M2 3AE expected future events or results expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.
They appear in a number of places Bankers throughout this Report and include statements regarding the Barclays Bank plc intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors concerning, 51 Mosley Street amongst other things, the Groups results of operations, financial Manchester M60 2AU condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business.
Persons receiving this Report should not place undue reliance on Lloyds Bank Plc forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable 25 Gresham Street law, regulation or accounting standard, AO does not undertake to London EC2V 7HN update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Registrar Capita Asset Services The Registry 34 Beckenham Road Beckenham Kent BR3 4TU Tel UK: 44 0 871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus phone companys access charge Tel INTL: 44 0 371 664 0300 calls charged at the applicable international rate Lines are open 9.00am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
co. uk AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119
