Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 March 2017 1.
GENERAL INFORMATION Big Yellow Group PLC is a Company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is 2 The Deans, Bridge Road, Bagshot, Surrey, GU19 5AT.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 4 and in the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 30.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation of financial statements The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union in accordance with EU law IAS regulation EC1606 2002 and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS, and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements are presented in Sterling, being the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Unless otherwise stated, figures are rounded to the nearest thousand.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year, except as described in the following sections.
Amendments to IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the current year In the current year, the Group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2016.
Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.
Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements Annual Improvements to IFRSs: 2012-2014 Annual Improvements to IFRSs New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Group has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued but are not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 2 amendments Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions IAS 7 amendments Disclosure Initiative IAS 12 amendments Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods.
Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain investment properties and financial instruments.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The principal accounting policies adopted, which have been applied consistently to the results, other gains and losses, assets, liabilities and cash flows of entities included in the consolidated financial statements in the current and preceding year, are set out below: Going concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on in the Strategic Report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes to the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the Strategic Report and in the notes to the financial statements.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2018 and projections contained in the longer term business plan which covers the period to March 2021.
The Directors have carefully considered the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance, and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
