Notes to the Financial Statements continued Year ended 31 March 2017 14.
There has been no transfer to or from Level 3 in the year.
The wholly owned freehold and leasehold investment properties have been valued at 31 March 2017 by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield LLP C&W.
The valuation has been carried out in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards, published by The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors the Red Book.
The valuation of each of the investment properties and the investment properties under construction has been prepared on the basis of either Fair Value or Fair Value as a fully equipped operational entity, having regard to trading potential, as appropriate.
The valuation has been provided for accounts purposes and as such, is a Regulated Purpose Valuation as defined in the Red Book.
In compliance with the disclosure requirements of the Red Book, C&W have confirmed that: one of the members of the RICS who has been a signatory to the valuations provided to the Group for the same purposes as this valuation, has done so since September 2004.
This is the second occasion on which the other member has been a signatory: C&W have been carrying out this annual valuation for the same purposes as this valuation on behalf of the Group since September 2004: C&W do not provide other significant professional or agency services to the Group: in relation to the preceding financial year of C&W, the proportion of the total fees payable by the Group to the total fee income of the firm is less than 5%: and the fee payable to C&W is a fixed amount per store, and is not contingent on the appraised value.
Market uncertainty C&Ws valuation report comments on valuation uncertainty resulting from low liquidity in the market for self storage property.
C&W note that in the UK since Q1 2013 there have only been nine transactions involving multiple assets and 13 single asset transactions.
C&W state that due to the lack of comparable market information in the self storage sector, there is greater uncertainty attached to their opinion of value than would be anticipated during more active market conditions.
Portfolio Premium C&Ws valuation report further confirms that the properties have been valued individually but that if the portfolio was to be sold as a single lot or in selected groups of properties, the total value could differ significantly.
C&W state that in current market conditions they are of the view that there could be a material portfolio premium.
VALUATION OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY continued Valuation methodology C&W have adopted different approaches for the valuation of the leasehold and freehold assets as follows: Freehold and long leasehold The valuation is based on a discounted cash flow of the net operating income over a ten year period and notional sale of the asset at the end of the tenth year.
Net operating income is based on projected revenue received less projected operating costs together with a central administration charge of 6% of the estimated annual revenue subject to a cap and a collar.
The initial net operating income is calculated by estimating the net operating income in the first 12 months following the valuation date.
The net operating income in future years is calculated assuming either straight-line absorption from day one actual occupancy or variable absorption over years one to four of the cash flow period, to an estimated stabilised mature occupancy level.
In the valuation the assumed stabilised occupancy level for the 73 trading stores both freeholds and leaseholds open at 31 March 2017 averages 82.8% 31 March 2016: 81.9%.
The projected revenues and costs have been adjusted for estimated cost inflation and revenue growth.
The average time assumed for the 73 stores to trade at their maturity levels is 22 months 31 March 2016: 20 months.
C. The capitalisation rates applied to existing and future net cash flow have been estimated by reference to underlying yields for industrial and retail warehouse property, yields for other trading property types such as student housing and hotels, bank base rates, ten year money rates, inflation and the available evidence of transactions in the sector.
The valuation included in the accounts assumes rental growth in future periods.
If an assumption of no rental growth is applied to the external valuation, the net initial yield pre-administration expenses for the 73 stores is 6.5% 31 March 2016: 6.5% rising to a stabilised net yield pre-administration expenses of 7.2% 31 March 2016: 7.2%.
D. The future net cash flow projections including revenue growth and cost inflation have been discounted at a rate that reflects the risk associated with each asset.
The weighted average annual discount rate adopted for both freeholds and leaseholds is 9.7% 31 March 2016: 9.9%.
E. Purchasers costs in the range of 6.1% to circa 6.8% see below have been assumed initially, reflecting the progressive SLDT rates brought into force in March 2016 and sale plus purchasers costs totalling circa 7.1% to 7.8% are assumed on the notional sales in the tenth year in relation to the freehold stores.
Short leasehold The same methodology has been used as for freeholds, except that no sale of the assets in the tenth year is assumed but the discounted cash flow is extended to the expiry of the lease.
The average unexpired term of the Groups seven short leasehold properties is 15.0 years 31 March 2016: 15.5 years unexpired.
Sensitivities As noted in Significant judgements and key estimates on page 103, self storage valuations are complex, derived from data which is not widely publicly available and involve a degree of judgement.
For these reasons we have classified the valuations of our property portfolio as Level 3 as defined by IFRS 13.
Inputs to the valuations, some of which are unobservable as defined by IFRS 13, include capitalisation yields, stable occupancy rates, and rental growth rates.
The existence of an increase of more than one unobservable input would augment the impact on valuation.
The impact on the valuation would be mitigated by the interrelationship between unobservable inputs moving in opposite directions.
For example, an increase in stable occupancy may be offset by an increase in yield, resulting in no net impact on the valuation.
A sensitivity analysis showing the impact on valuations of changes in yields and stable occupancy is shown below.
Impact of a change Impact of a change in in stabilised capitalisation rates occupancy assumption 25 bps decrease 25 bps increase 1% increase 1% decrease m m m m Reported group 1,154.4m 43.3m 40.1m 16.7m 17.2m Investment properties under construction C&W have valued the stores in development adopting the same methodology as set out above but on the basis of the cash flow projection expected for the store at opening and after allowing for the outstanding costs to take each scheme from its current state to completion and full fit-out.
C&W have allowed for holding costs and construction contingency, as appropriate.
Four schemes do not yet have planning consent and C&W have reflected the planning risk in their valuation.
