SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements In the application of the Groups accounting policies, which are described above, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
Estimate of fair value of Investment Properties and Investment Property under Construction critical accounting estimate The Groups self storage centres and stores under development are valued using a discounted cash flow methodology which is based on projections of net operating income.
The Group employs expert external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield LLP, who report on the values of the Groups stores on an annual basis.
The stores within the Armadillo Partnerships are valued by Jones Lang LaSalle.
The principal assumptions underlying the estimation of the fair value are those related to: stabilised occupancy levels: expected future growth in storage rents, capitalisation rates and discount rates.
A more detailed explanation of the background and methodology adopted in the valuation of the Groups investment properties is set out in note 14 to the accounts.
REVENUE Analysis of the Groups operating revenue can be found below and in the Portfolio Summary on page 22.
2017 2016 000 000 Open stores Self storage income 91,600 84,900 Other storage related income 15,189 14,568 Ancillary store rental income 526 354 107,315 99,822 Other revenue Non-storage income 885 808 Management fees earned 870 752 Revenue per statement of comprehensive income 109,070 101,382 Interest receivable on bank deposits see note 7 16 15 Total revenue per IAS 18 109,086 101,397 Non-storage income derives principally from rental income earned from tenants of properties awaiting development.
SEGMENTAL INFORMATION IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Chief Executive to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
Given the nature of the Groups business, there is one segment, which is the provision of self storage and related services.
Revenue represents amounts derived from the provision of self storage and related services which fall within the Group's ordinary activities after deduction of trade discounts and value added tax.
The Groups net assets, revenue and profit before tax are attributable to one activity, the provision of self storage and related services.
These all arise in the United Kingdom in the current year and prior year.
