The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB Green Star Status GRESB collects information regarding the sustainability performance of property owning companies and funds.
This includes information on performance indicators, such as energy efficiency, GHG emission, water and waste reductions.
The Survey also covers broader issues such as sustainability risk assessments, performance improvement, and engagement with employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
GRESB rated Big Yellow with a two Green Star Status in 2016.
In Europe and globally we were scored 79% for management and policy and 48% for implementation and measurement.
Our Environmental and Social Governance ESG was ranked 84% against a peer group average of 54%.
The benchmark results ranked Big Yellow as in 1st position out of 8 storage companies and 20th out of 25 UK Listed Real Estate Companies, which allows us to identify the areas where we can improve, both in absolute terms and relative to our peers.
We are able to provide our existing and potential investors with information regarding our environmental and social governance performance, in the current real estate investment market.
6.0 CSR PROGRAMME FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 MARCH 2018 Big Yellow will continue to focus on its most significant environmental and financial aspects of its business impact, energy use and carbon emissions.
Energy efficiency and low carbon supply programmes have been trialled and have been implemented since 2008.
We will review and consider further energy reduction strategies within our store operations for carbon and financial savings.
For the year ahead our programmes, objectives and targets are highlighted in the table below.
CSR Strategy Programme Objectives From 2011 Benchmark GHG Emission Reduction Assess new and acquired stores within the External store lighting programmed for LED portfolio for efficient LED re-lamping re-lamping in the year ending 31 March 2018. internally and externally.
CRC Review potential tax reduction as tCO tax Implement more specific ESOS advice from 2 rate increases.
Increase Solar Energy Solar installations to increase with new Solar installation on new build Guildford store Generation build portfolio growth, acquisitions and and two retro-fit installations on Colchester existing retro-fit stores.
Provided data on the Big Yellow web site to Maintain membership within the FTSE4 Good FTSE4 Good update research requests on our supply Index series ratings and engaging with Investor Governance chain, labour standards and the Modern researchers.
CDP Communications Use our annual carbon performance data in To increase and maintain our high the CDP survey 2017 to improve our ratings.
performance and interest from a wider range of investors.
GRESB Maintain our ranking scores in Strengthen and maintain the leading Green management and policy and Star position in the GRESB upper quadrant.
Continually maintain and improve high Invest in continued training and awareness Health and Safety standards of recording and reporting of staff in routine health and safety policy, customer, staff, visitor, and contractor procedures, management and reporting.
Staff CSR Awareness Continue raising CSR awareness through Regular staff meetings and information area staff presentations and internal bulletins on CSR progress and Climate communications.
More details of CSR policies, previous reports and awards can be found on our investor relations web site.
57 Strategic Report continued Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Independent assurance statement by Deloitte LLP Deloitte or we to Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow on selected indicators disclosed within their Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Report What we looked at: scope of our work We have been engaged by Big Yellow to perform limited assurance procedures on selected Group level Corporate Social Responsibility CSR performance indicators the Subject Matter for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The assured data are indicated by the symbol in the Report.
Carbon footprint indicators: Store electricity tCO e 2 Store flexi-office gas emissions tCO e 2 Refrigerant emissions tCO e 2 Absolute carbon dioxide emissions tCO e 2 Store electricity use, CO emissions and carbon intensity: 2 Electricity use kWh Like-for-like electricity use tCO2e Absolute carbon emissions tCO e 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m gross internal area 2 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e m occupied space 2 Carbon intensity kgCO e revenue 2 Renewable energy generation and CO emissions reductions: 2 Total renewable energy kWh Renewable energy percentage of total store use % Staff health and safety: Average number of employees Minor Injuries Reportable injuries RIDDOR Annual Injury Incidence rate AIIR per 100,000 staff Notices What we found: our assurance opinion Based on the assurance work we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected CSR performance indicators, as noted above, have not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with Big Yellows reporting criteria.
What standards we used: basis of our work and level of assurance We carried out limited assurance in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised ISAE 3000.
To achieve limited assurance ISAE 3000 requires that we review the processes and systems used to compile the areas on which we provide assurance.
This standard requires that we comply with the independence and ethical requirements and to plan and perform our assurance engagement to obtain sufficient appropriate evidence on which to base our limited assurance conclusion.
It does not include detailed testing of source data or the operating effectiveness of processes and internal controls.
This is designed to give a similar level of assurance to that obtained in the review of interim financial information.
The evaluation criteria used for our assurance are the Big Yellow Group definitions and basis of reporting as described at: http: corporate.
aspx 58 What we did: our key assurance procedures Considering the risk of material error, our multi-disciplinary team of CSR assurance specialists planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support our assurance conclusion.
Our work was planned to mirror Big Yellows own group level compilation processes, tracing how data for each indicator within our assurance scope was collected, collated and validated by corporate head office and included in the Report.
Key procedures we carried out included: Making inquiries of management to obtain an understanding of the overall governance and internal control environment relevant to management and reporting of the subject matter: Understanding, analysing, and testing on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures, and controls relating to the aggregation, validation and reporting of the subject matter set out above: and Reviewing the content of the 2017 CSR Report against the findings of our work and making recommendations for improvement where necessary.
Big Yellows responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Report and for the information and statements contained within it.
They are responsible for determining the CSR goals, performance and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived.
Deloittes responsibilities, independence and team competencies Our responsibility is to independently express a conclusion on the performance data for the year ended 31 March 2017.
We performed the engagement in accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which cover all of the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics and in some cases are more restrictive.
The firm applies the International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
We confirm to Big Yellow that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
This report is made solely to Big Yellow in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Big Yellow for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 22 May 2017 59
