185 Verification of Non-Financial Data For a number of years, the group has sought Our information disclosures take to collect and present certain non-financial many forms including investor interviews, data in respect of human resources, health customer questionnaires, independent CSR and safety and environmental metrics as a sustainability assurance surveys and the means to demonstrate our performance as non-financial data and other information a responsible business.
We have continued described within our annual report.
to review the metrics we present, the basis Since 2007 08 our annual non-financial of measurement and the processes of reports have been subject to periodic third collection and consolidation with a view to party assurance assessment provided by standardising and improving the relevance independent consultants auditors.
and quality of the metrics presented, and to In 2016 17 we commissioned Corporate further improve our processes in this area.
Citizenship to provide external assurance and Certain human resources data forms commentary on the companys sustainability part of Johnson Mattheys accounts which reporting of our Sustainability 2017 key are subject to limited audit.
Other human performance indicators and data pertaining resources data, community investment to our 2016 17 environment, health and data and information relating to charitable safety performance.
We also requested a donations is reviewed and verified by review of our approach to stakeholder internal experts.
engagement and materiality as well as Health and safety data is reviewed ensuring that the core disclosures are in by group health and safety experts and accordance with GRI standards.
Corporate as part of the group environment, health Citizenship has subsequently provided the and safety EHS internal audit programme.
following summary assurance report: Environmental data is reviewed by group Johnson Matthey commissioned environmental experts and as part of the Corporate Citizenship to provide limited group EHS audit programme.
assurance of its Sustainability 2017 key All data is reviewed by internal performance indicators and an evaluation of sustainability experts and at appropriate its approach to stakeholders and materiality.
levels of management up to and including Johnson Matthey has chosen to use the the Group Management Committee.
ISAE 3000 standard, and the relevant Johnson Matthey uses external specialists subject-matter specific ISAE for GHG data on specific sustainability issues.
Over the ISAE 3410, as the reference standards with past year this has included external audits regard to the key performance indicators.
or reviews of people management systems, For evaluating the stakeholder and materiality health and safety OHSAS 18001 and approach, Johnson Matthey has chosen environmental management systems such to use the AA1000 2008 principles of as ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and RC 14001. inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness The board reviews corporate social as the reference standard.
responsibility CSR and broader sustainability Based on the scope of work and issues as part of its risk management process.
assurance procedures performed, nothing Johnson Matthey compiles, assesses came to our attention that causes us to and discloses non-financial information for believe that the Sustainability 2017 key a number of reasons: performance indicators are not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with where there is a legal obligation the GRI Principles for Defining Report Quality UK Companies Act, mandatory and the WRI WBCSD GHG Corporate carbon reporting : Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised.
to help drive improved business This assurance conclusion should be performance: read in conjunction with the full assurance statement published online at to demonstrate to institutional investors www.
that Johnson Mattheys business approach This contains a description of the scope of is responsible, ethical, sustainable and our work, our detailed findings and a offers a sound value proposition: commentary upon the stakeholder and to demonstrate to our customers materiality approach of Johnson Matthey that Johnson Mattheys business assessed against the AA1000 principles of conduct meets or exceeds all of the inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness.
required standards: to demonstrate to other stakeholders that Johnson Matthey conducts its business in an ethical, responsible and sustainable manner: and to benchmark our corporate performance against peer group companies.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
