98 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Pensions 2017 Annual General Meeting The pension policy for existing Executive Directors remains a cash I ask you to support our proposed Directors Remuneration Policy allowance of up to 25% of base salary.
As set out in the recruitment along with our 2016 17 Annual Report on Remuneration at our section of the new Remuneration Policy, when setting the pension forthcoming AGM on 28th July 2017.
We believe that our policy is arrangement for a new Executive Director we will seek to align the simple, transparent and effective, strongly supporting our business level of pension benefit more closely with that awarded to other strategy.
We welcome an open dialogue with our shareholders and employees in Johnson Matthey.
I will be available at the meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Salary Reviews The annual review of Executive Director salaries has normally taken effect on 1st August each year.
In future, we will align the review date to the companys financial year such that Executive Director salaries will normally take effect from 1st April each year.
A summary of the key elements of the Remuneration Policy Colin Matthews and their application for 2017 18 is set out in the Remuneration Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Overview on page 99.
2017 Salary Review Taking into account performance and time in role, each Executive Director received an increase on 1st April 2017 in line with the increase awarded to other UK employees but pro-rated to take account of the period of time since their last salary review.
As a result, Robert MacLeod and John Walker received an increase of 1.5% and Anna Manz received an increase of 1%.
Board Changes Den Jones stood down from the board on 20th July 2016 and left Johnson Matthey on 31st July 2016.
Under the terms of the annual bonus plan, he received a pro-rata bonus for the proportion of the year served and any outstanding deferred share bonus awards will vest on the normal release dates.
In addition, his outstanding awards under the long term incentive plan will continue to vest on the normal dates subject to performance and a time pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the performance period served.
We welcomed Anna Manz to the board on 17th October 2016.
Her remuneration package was set in line with our standard policy and she received no replacement or buy-out awards in connection with her appointment.
The Year Ahead Looking ahead to the next 12 months, we will monitor the appropriateness of the performance conditions attached to our annual and long term incentive plans and will consider the remuneration and incentive arrangements for senior managers below the board following the implementation of a new global grading structure across the organisation.
