129 Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2017 The groups and parent companys significant accounting policies, together with the judgments made by management in applying those policies which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the accounts, are: Basis of accounting and preparation The accounts are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC or the Standing Interpretations Committee SIC as adopted by the European Union.
For Johnson Matthey, there are no differences between IFRS as adopted by the European Union and full IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and so the accounts comply with IFRS.
The accounts are prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value as explained below.
The parent company has not presented its own income statement, statement of total comprehensive income and related notes as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts of the parent company and all its subsidiaries, including the employee share ownership trust, and include the groups interest in joint ventures and associates.
Entities the group controls are accounted for as subsidiaries.
Entities that are joint ventures or associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Transactions and balances between group companies are eliminated.
No profit is taken on transactions between group companies.
The results of businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are consolidated from or up to the effective date of acquisition or disposal respectively.
The net assets of businesses acquired are incorporated in the consolidated accounts at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
In the parent company balance sheet, businesses acquired from other group companies are incorporated at book value at the date of acquisition.
The difference between the consideration paid and the book value of the net assets acquired is reflected in retained earnings.
Foreign currencies Foreign currency transactions are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary, joint venture, associate or branch at the exchange rate at the date of transaction.
Foreign currency monetary assets and liabilities are retranslated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date.
Income statements and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches are translated into sterling at the average rates for the year.
Balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches, including any fair value adjustments and including related goodwill, are translated into sterling at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net investment in overseas subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and branches, less exchange differences arising on related foreign currency financial instruments which hedge the groups net investment in these operations, are taken to other comprehensive income.
On disposal of the net investment the cumulative exchange difference is reclassified from equity to operating profit.
The group has taken advantage of the exemption allowed in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Reporting Standards to deem the cumulative translation difference for all overseas subsidiaries and branches to be zero at 1st April 2004.
Other exchange differences are taken to operating profit.
Revenue Revenue comprises all sales of goods and rendering of services at the fair value of consideration received or receivable after the deduction of any trade discounts and excluding sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it can be measured reliably and the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer.
With the sale of goods this occurs either: when the goods are despatched or delivered in line with the International Chamber of Commerces International Commercial Terms Incoterms as detailed in the relevant contract: when they are made available to the customer and ownership transfers before despatch: or on notification that the product has been used when the goods are consignment products located at customers premises.
With the rendering of services, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion as measured by the proportion that costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total costs.
With royalties and licence income, revenue is recognised in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Where they are part of a long term contract with a single overall profit margin, revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.
Long term contracts Where the outcome of a long term contract can be estimated reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion.
This is measured by the proportion that contract costs incurred to date bear to the estimated total contract costs.
Where the outcome of a long term contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred.
When it is probable that the total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 130 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 5.
Accounts Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2017 Finance costs and finance income Finance costs that are directly attributable to the construction of an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
Other finance costs and finance income are recognised in the income statement in the year incurred.
Grants Grants related to assets are included in deferred income and released to the income statement in equal instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Grants related to income are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Research and development Research expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred.
Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in the year incurred unless it meets the IFRS recognition criteria for capitalisation.
When the recognition criteria have been met, any further development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset over its useful life.
Certain freehold buildings and plant and equipment are depreciated using the units of production method, as this more closely reflects their expected consumption.
All other assets are depreciated using the straight line method.
The useful lives vary according to the class of the asset, but are typically: leasehold property 30 years or the life of the lease if shorter : freehold buildings 30 years: and plant and equipment 4 to 10 years.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the fair value of the consideration given exceeds the fair value attributed to the net assets acquired including contingent liabilities.
It is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Acquisition-related costs are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The group and parent company have taken advantage of the exemption allowed under IFRS 1 and so goodwill arising on acquisitions made before 1st April 2004 is included at the carrying amount at that date less any subsequent impairments.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provisions for impairment.
Customer contracts are amortised when the relevant income stream occurs using either a straight line method or, where they relate to a long term contract, a stage of completion method.
All other intangible assets are amortised by using the straight line method over the useful lives from the time they are first available for use.
The estimated useful lives vary according to the specific asset but are typically: 1 to 15 years for customer contracts and relationships: 3 to 10 years for capitalised computer software: 3 to 20 years for patents, trademarks and licences: 4 to 10 years for acquired research and technology: and 3 to 8 years for capitalised development currently being amortised.
Intangible assets which are not yet being amortised are subject to annual impairment reviews.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the parent companys balance sheet at cost less any provisions for impairment.
If a distribution is received from a subsidiary then the investment in that subsidiary is assessed for an indication of impairment.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever they transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the group.
The assets are included in property, plant and equipment and the capital elements of the leasing commitments are shown as obligations under finance leases.
The assets are depreciated on a basis consistent with similar owned assets or the lease term if shorter.
The interest element of the lease rental is included in the income statement.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and the lease costs are expensed on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Precious metal inventories Inventories of gold, silver and platinum group metals are valued according to the source from which the metal is obtained.
Metal which has been purchased and committed to future sales to customers or hedged in metal markets is valued at the price at which it is contractually committed or hedged, adjusted for unexpired contango and backwardation.
Other precious metal inventories owned by the group, which are unhedged, are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value using the weighted average cost formula.
Other inventories Non-precious metal inventories are valued at the lower of cost, including attributable overheads, and net realisable value.
Except where costs are specifically identified, the first-in, first-out cost formula is used to value inventories.
131 Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2017 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and deposits comprise cash at bank and in hand, including short term deposits with a maturity date of three months or less from the date of acquisition.
The group and parent company routinely use short term bank overdraft facilities, which are repayable on demand, as an integral part of their cash management policy.
Therefore cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statements are cash and deposits less bank overdrafts.
Offset arrangements across group businesses have been applied to arrive at the net cash and overdraft figures.
Derivative financial instruments The group and parent company use derivative financial instruments, in particular forward currency contracts and currency swaps, to manage the financial risks associated with their underlying business activities and the financing of those activities.
The group and parent company do not undertake any speculative trading activity in derivative financial instruments.
Derivative financial instruments are measured at their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments may be designated at inception as fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges if appropriate.
Derivative financial instruments which are not designated as hedging instruments are classified under IFRS as held for trading, but are used to manage financial risk.
The vast majority of forward precious metal price contracts are entered into and held for the receipt or delivery of precious metal and so are not recorded at fair value.
If a forward precious metal price contract will be settled net in cash then it is designated and accounted for as a cash flow hedge.
Changes in the fair value of any derivative financial instruments that are not designated as or are not determined to be effective hedges are recognised immediately in the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as fair value hedges are recognised in the income statement, together with the related changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability.
Fair value hedge accounting is discontinued if the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income, to the extent that the hedges are effective.
Ineffective portions are recognised in the income statement immediately.
If the hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred out of equity and included in the initial carrying amount of the asset or liability.
Otherwise, the amount previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred to the income statement in the same period that the hedged item is recognised in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting or the designation is revoked, amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income remain in equity until the forecast transaction occurs.
If a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement.
For hedges of net investments in foreign operations, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are reclassified from equity to the income statement when the foreign operations are sold or liquidated.
Other financial instruments All other financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Subsequent measurement is as follows: Borrowings are measured at amortised cost unless they are designated as being fair value hedged, in which case they are remeasured for the fair value changes in respect of the hedged risk with these changes recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale investments which are investments in equity instruments that have a quoted market price in an active market are fair valued at that price with the gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market are valued at fair value if it can be measured reliably with the gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the fair value cannot be measured reliably, they are measured at cost.
Other available-for-sale investments are measured at fair value with interest calculated using the effective interest method recognised in financial income and the remaining gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income until the investment is derecognised.
At that time the cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income will be transferred from equity to operating profit.
All other financial assets and liabilities, including short term receivables and payables, are measured at amortised cost less any impairment provision.
Taxation Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when they relate to items recognised directly in equity when the related tax is also recognised in equity.
Current tax is the amount of income tax expected to be paid in respect of taxable profits using the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount in the balance sheet.
It is provided using the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset or liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in respect of temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and branches where the group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 132 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 5.
Accounts Accounting Policies for the year ended 31st March 2017 Provisions and contingencies Provisions are recognised when the group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and a reliable estimate can be made of a probable adverse outcome, for example warranties, environmental claims and restructurings.
Otherwise, material contingent liabilities are disclosed unless the transfer of economic benefits is remote.
Contingent assets are only disclosed if an inflow of economic benefits is probable.
The parent company considers financial guarantees of its subsidiaries borrowings and precious metal leases to be insurance contracts.
These are treated as contingent liabilities unless it becomes probable that it will be required to make a payment under the guarantee.
Share-based payments and employee share ownership trust ESOT The fair value of outstanding shares allocated to employees under the long term incentive plan is calculated by adjusting the share price on the date of allocation for the present value of the expected dividends that will not be received.
The resulting cost is charged to the income statement over the relevant vesting periods, adjusted to reflect actual and expected levels of vesting where appropriate.
The group and parent company provide finance to the ESOT to purchase company shares in the open market.
Costs of running the ESOT are charged to the income statement.
The cost of shares held by the ESOT is deducted in arriving at equity until they vest unconditionally with employees.
Pensions and other post-employment benefits The costs of defined contribution plans are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
For defined benefit plans, the group and parent company recognise the net assets or liabilities of the plans in their balance sheets.
Obligations are measured at present value using the projected unit credit method and a discount rate reflecting yields on high quality corporate bonds.
Assets are measured at their fair value at the balance sheet date.
The changes in plan assets and liabilities, based on actuarial advice, are recognised as follows: The current service cost is deducted in arriving at operating profit.
The net interest cost, based on the discount rate at the beginning of the year, contributions paid in and the present value of the net defined benefit liabilities during the year, is included in finance costs.
Past service costs and curtailment gains and losses are recognised in operating profit at the earlier of when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs and when any related restructuring costs or termination benefits are recognised.
Gains or losses arising from settlements are included in operating profit when the settlement occurs.
Remeasurements, representing returns on plan assets excluding amounts included in interest and actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic and financial assumptions, are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Standards and interpretations adopted in the year IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts, Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations, Amendments to International Accounting Standard IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation, Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 41 Agriculture: Bearer Plants, Amendments to IAS 27 Equity Method in Separate Financial Statements, Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture, Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception, Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative and Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 Cycle were adopted during the year.
There was no material impact on the reported results or financial position of the group and parent company.
Standards and interpretations issued but not yet applied IFRS 9 Financial Instruments will be adopted from 1st April 2018.
The groups evaluation of the effect of the adoption of this standard is ongoing but it is not currently anticipated that it will have a material effect on the reported results and financial position of the group and parent company.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be adopted from 1st April 2018.
The group has performed initial reviews of some of its major contracts spread across its divisions.
Based on the results of this review the group believes that IFRS 15 will not have a significant impact on the timing and recognition of revenue, although it is anticipated that there will be some impact as a result of allocating revenue to the various performance obligations.
The group has now commenced a systematic review of all existing major contracts to ensure that the impact is fully understood in advance of the effective date.
IFRS 16 Leases will be adopted from 1st April 2019.
The effect on the reported results and financial position of the group and parent company is still being evaluated.
The effects of any standards and interpretations amended or issued after 30th April 2017 have not yet been evaluated.
The group and parent company do not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the IASB but not yet applicable will have a significant impact on their reported results or net assets.
