179 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you 4.
Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006 is unmodified adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent The part of the directors Remuneration Report to be audited company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been extends from the Single Figure Table of Remuneration on page 109 received from branches not visited by us: or to, and including, the Statement of Directors Shareholding on page 113: and in addition comprises the Explanation of Figures the parent company accounts and the part of the Directors on page 110, the Variable Pay Additional Disclosures, Including Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with Bases of Calculation and Outcomes on pages 110 to 111, long term the accounting records and returns: or incentive vesting outcomes on pages 111 and 112, the Pension certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Entitlements on page 112 and the Payments for Loss of Office are not made: or on page 113. we have not received all the information and explanations we In our opinion: require for our audit.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the directors statements, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern and longer term viability: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 86 accounts.
relating to the companys compliance with the 11 provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course our review.
of the audit of the accounts and from reading the Strategic Report and the Directors Report: We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: set out on page 121, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and the directors statement of longer term viability on page 47, fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of accounts is concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the www.
This report is made solely groups continuing in operation over the three years to to the companys members as a body and is subject to important 31st March 2020. explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014b, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be 6.
We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the accounts, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: Stephen Oxley Senior Statutory Auditor we have identified material inconsistencies between the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors Chartered Accountants statement that they consider that the annual report and 15 Canada Square accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable London E14 5GL and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model 31st May 2017 and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
