175 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement We summarise below the risks of material misstatement unchanged from 2016 that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance order of significance changed from 2016 with taxation accounting considered more significant than post-employment benefits, our key audit procedures to address those risks and our findings our results based on those procedures in order that the company's members as a body may better understand the process by which we arrived at our audit opinion.
These procedures were undertaken in the context of, and solely for the purposes of, our statutory audit opinion on the accounts as a whole and consequently the results of these procedures are incidental to that opinion.
We do not express discrete opinions on separate elements of the accounts.
The Risk Our Response Refinery process and stock takes Physical quantities: Our procedures included: Refer to page 92 Audit Committee The group refines a significant amount of metal Controls: Assessing through observation, Report and page 169 financial as set out in note 40.
The year end metal interview and reperformance on a sample disclosures.
inventory quantity is determined from: i assay basis the adequacy of group controls over estimates of the metal contained in the carrier metal processing and inventory including material entering and refined metal leaving the physical security, metal receipt and dispatch, refining process, and ii estimates of process metal recording, assaying and stock takes: losses, rolled forward from iii assay estimates Count attendance and design: Attending of the metal content in the plants at the time of physical stock takes to verify adherence to stock stock takes which take place at different times take processes and physical quantities counted: earlier than the financial year end.
The year end metal inventory is dependent, first, upon the Count vs system reconciliation: Seeking to physical quantities measured in the assay understand and corroborate the reasons for samples in i and iii.
The risks of quantity and significant or unusual movements in inventory estimates apply to the groups own metal and quantities between the accounting records material at ii being processed for third parties, and the physical stock takes.
Evaluating the such that a small variation in estimates could roll forward of inventory from the point of have a material effect on the valuation of stock take to the year end to assess the inventory in the accounts.
potential for misstatement: Subjective estimate: Historical comparisons: Assessing provisions Second, the groups inventory quantities are also for inventory loss compared to historical subject to a significant degree of estimation, trends and stock take results to assess the including consideration of process loss likelihood and quantum of processing loss provisions at iii, and stock take results, derived if any of metal between the date of the from assay samples.
Furthermore, the plants stock take and the year end date: and process material on behalf of third parties, Assessing transparency: Considering the whereby the group must return pre-agreed adequacy of the groups disclosures about recoverable quantities of refined metal to those the degree of estimation involved in arriving parties: under recovery or other loss directly at the measured inventory.
impacts the groups own metal inventory.
Our results: As a result we found that the valuation of inventory is appropriately stated.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 176 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 5.
Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The Risk Our Response Carrying value of goodwill and Forecast-based valuation: Our procedures included: other intangible assets The group has significant intangible assets Assessing methodology: Obtaining the Refer to page 92 Audit Committee and goodwill arising from the acquisition of discounted cash flow models and assessing Report, page 130 accounting businesses and investments in new products the principles and integrity of each model: policy and pages 149 to 152 and and technologies.
Some investments and 169 financial disclosures.
Benchmarking assumptions: Challenging recent acquisitions are still at an early stage the groups valuation assumptions for its of commercial development and as such, cash flow projections such as discount rates carry a greater risk that they will not be and cost inflation, with reference to internally commercially viable.
and externally derived sources: Recoverability of these assets is based on Our valuations expertise: Assessing the inputs forecasting and discounting future cash flows, based on our own insights and experience which are inherently judgmental.
and challenging the appropriateness of the discount rate with the assistance of our own valuation specialists: Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the assumptions noted above: Historical comparisons: Assessing the groups historical forecasting accuracy: and Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of impairment testing and whether disclosures about the sensitivity of the outcome of the impairment assessment to changes in key assumptions properly reflected the risks inherent in the valuations: and Our results: As a result of our testing we found that managements assessment that no impairments were required was supported by reasonable assumptions.
Taxation accounting Subjective estimate: Our procedures included: Refer to page 92 Audit Committee The group operates in multiple jurisdictions Test of details: Assessed correspondence Report, page 131 accounting policy governed by national tax laws and regulations with the relevant tax authorities including and page 169 financial disclosures.
and is required to estimate the tax effect of cross the status of recent and current tax authority border transactions including transfer pricing audits and enquiries: arrangements.
Where the precise impact of Our taxation expertise: With the assistance these laws and regulations on indirect taxes of our own local and international tax and the tax payable on profits arising in those specialists, who have knowledge of the jurisdictions is unclear, the group seeks to make relevant indirect and direct tax regimes and reasonable estimates to determine the tax experience in their application, analysing charge arising.
and challenging the assumptions used to determine the tax charge and provisioning: and benchmarking assumptions: and Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax positions.
Our results: From the evidence obtained, we found the level of tax provisioning to be appropriate.
177 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Johnson Matthey Plc only 2.
Our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued The Risk Our Response Post-employment benefits Subjective valuation: Our procedures included: Refer to page 92 Audit Committee Small changes in assumptions and estimates Our pensions expertise: Challenging the Report, page 132 accounting policy used to value the groups post-employment key assumptions, being the discount rates, and pages 142 to 148 financial benefit obligations would have a significant inflation rates, and mortality life expectancies disclosures.
effect on the groups financial position.
supporting the groups post-employment benefit obligations valuations, with the support of our own actuarial specialists: Benchmarking assumptions: Comparing these key assumptions used against externally derived data: Sensitivity analysis: Performing breakeven analysis on the assumptions noted above: and Assessing transparency: Considering the adequacy of the groups disclosures in respect of the sensitivity of the liabilities to these assumptions.
Our results: As a result of our testing we found that the post-employment benefit obligations were appropriately stated.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
