Statement of Directors Responsibilities In Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Details of the Directors and members of the committees are reported on pages 34 to 38.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement We, the Directors, confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the Financial Statements within this Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a fair, balanced and understandable view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2017: and the Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors include a fair review of the information required by 4.1.
11R of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: and the Annual Report and Audited Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy, and include a description of principal risks and uncertainties.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca Chairman 7 June 2017 58 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
