Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure In compliance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Board has appointed FIL Investment Services UK Limited FISL a Fidelity group company as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
FISL has delegated the investment management other than in unlisted securities to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
It has delegated the investment management of the unlisted securities and the company secretarial function to FIL Investments International another Fidelity group company.
Details of the Management Agreements can be found in the Directors Report on page 21.
The table below discloses information required by the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013.
Function AIFM Role and Responsibility AIFMD Disclosure Investment The AIFM provides portfolio management of assets and investment Details of the Companys investment management advice in relation to the assets of the Company.
objective, strategy and investment policy, including limits, are on pages 9 and 10.
It has delegated this function to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited other than the unlisted securities and for unlisted securities to FIL Investments International.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy, investment policy and investment guidelines and the AIFM operates within these guidelines.
Risk The AIFM has a responsibility for risk management for the Company The AIFM has an ongoing process for management which is in addition to the Boards corporate governance responsibility identifying, evaluating and managing the for risk management.
principal risks faced by the Company and this is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Company has a Risk Management Process Document which is The Board remains responsible for the agreed with the Board and demonstrates that risk management is Companys system of internal control and separated functionally and hierarchically from operating units and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Manager maintains details can be found in the Strategic Report adequate risk management systems in order to identify, measure on pages 11 and 12 and in Note 19 to the and monitor all risks at least annually under AIFMD.
The Manager is Financial Statements on pages 54 to 63. responsible for the implementation of various risk activities such as risk systems, risk profile, risk limits and testing.
The Board, as part of UK corporate governance, remains responsible for the identification of significant risks and for the ongoing review of the Companys risk management and internal control processes.
Valuation of The Directive requires the disclosure of the percentage of the AIFs Not Applicable.
illiquid assets assets which are subject to special arrangements arising from their illiquid nature.
Further, any new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company must be disclosed.
Leverage The Company uses leverage to increase its exposure primarily to The maximum leverage limits are 1.80 the stockmarkets of China or Hong Kong and currently holds long for the Gross Method of calculating Contracts For Difference to achieve this.
The AIFM has set maximum leverage and 1.50 for the Commitment levels of leverage that are reasonable.
It has implemented systems Method.
There have been no changes to to calculate and monitor compliance against these limits and has the maximum level of leverage that the ensured that the limits have been complied with at all times.
Company may employ during the year.
There are two measures of leverage the Gross Method which does At 31 March 2017, actual leverage was not reduce exposure for hedging: and the Commitment Method which 1.36 for the Gross Method and 1.31 for the does reduce exposure for hedging.
Liquidity The AIFM, in consultation with the Board, maintains a liquidity No new arrangements for managing the management management policy which is considered at least annually.
liquidity of the Company have been made.
Further details can be found in Note 19 on page 58.
Remuneration The AIFM operates under the terms of Fidelitys Global Remuneration Policy Details of Fidelity Internationals Global of the AIFM Statement.
This ensures that the AIFM complies with the requirements of Remuneration Policy can be found at the FCAs Remuneration Code SYSC19A : the AIFM Remuneration Code www.
com global SYSC19B and the BIPRU Remuneration Code SYSC19C.
EU Securities Financing Transactions Regulation SFTR The following disclosures relate to the contracts for difference CFDs held by the Company which may be considered Total Return Swaps under the SFTR, which came into force on 12 January 2016.
For the year ended 31 March 2017 the total return from CFDs was 33,496,000.
CFDs were contracted bilaterally with Deutsche Bank AG DB, HSBC Bank plc HSBC and UBS AG UBS and had an open maturity.
Collateral of 23,737,000 was held in a segregated account on behalf of the Company comprising: DB 9,689,000 in European Government bonds denominated in euros and UBS 14,028,000 in UK Government bonds denominated in Sterling.
74 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event:5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Contents Strategy 1 Investment Objective and Performance 2 Summary of Results 3 Chairmans Statement It is now increasingly accepted by investment 6 Portfolio Managers Review professionals that Chinas sheer economic 9 Strategic Report 14 Forty Largest Holdings size, along with its record of delivering year on 17 Distribution of the Portfolio 18 Attribution Analysis year growth, means that anyone building an 19 Record since Launch investment portfolio should consider having an Governance exposure to China.
20 Board of Directors 21 Directors Report 24 Corporate Governance Statement The purpose of Fidelity China Special Situations 28 Directors Remuneration Report 31 Statement of Directors PLC is to provide investors with that exposure Responsibilities 32 Report of the Audit Committee through a spread of investments in companies involved in China.
Financial 34 Independent Auditors Report 40 Income Statement The Directors are confident in the continuing 41 Statement of Changes in Equity 42 Balance Sheet growth in the New China economy and in the 43 Cash Flow Statement 44 Notes to the Financial Statements long-term growth prospects for the Company.
Information for shareholders Nicholas Bull, Chairman 65 Notice of Meeting 68 Glossary to the Annual Report 72 Shareholder Information 74 Alternative Investment Fund Managers Disclosure TO KNOW LOCAL COMPANIES, KEEP LOCAL COMPANY.
Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 18 Black Line Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2017 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Fidelity, Fidelity International, the Fidelity International logo and symbol are trademarks of FIL Limited Printed on FSC certied paper.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
The FSC logo identies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certied in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
This document is printed on Cocoon Silk: a paper made using 50% recycled bre from genuinewaste paper and 50% virgin bre.
The unavoidable carbon emissions generated during the manufacture and delivery of this document, have been reduced to net zero through a veried, carbon osetting project.
