Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notes 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
A proxy form which may be used to make such appointment and give proxy instructions accompanies this notice.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law, which means that the vote will not be counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
If no voting indication is given, a proxy may vote or abstain from voting at his her discretion.
A proxy may vote or abstain from voting as he or she thinks fit in relation to any other matter which is put before the meeting.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy must be completed and signed and received by post or during normal business hours only by hand at Capita Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF no later than 12 noon Tuesday, 12 September 2017.
In the case of a member which is a company, the instrument appointing a proxy must be executed under its seal or signed on its behalf by a duly authorised officer or attorney or other person authorised to sign.
Any power of attorney or other authority under which the instrument is signed or a certified copy of it must be included with the instrument.
The return of a completed proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described below will not prevent a shareholder attending the meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or have someone else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraphs 1 and 3 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, only shareholders registered on the register of members of the Company the Register of Members at the close of business on Tuesday, 12 September 2017 or, in the event of any adjournment, on the date which is two days before the time of the adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote or be represented at the meeting in respect of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to the Register of Members after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
As at 14 June 2017 being the last business day prior to the publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital consists of 46,541,278 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 14 June 2017 are 46,541,278.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with the specifications of Euroclear UK and Ireland Limited CRESTCo, and must contain the information required for such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors, or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted.
Seniority is determined by the order in which the names of the joint holders appear in the Register of Members in respect of the joint holding the first named being the most senior.
Members who wish to change their proxy instructions should submit a new proxy appointment using the methods set out above.
Note that the cut-off time for receipt of proxy appointments see above also applies in relation to amended instructions: any amended proxy appointment received after the relevant cut-off time will be disregarded.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 79 K I N G E D W ALDERSGATE A1 BRITAIN L I T T L E Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting 16.
Members who have appointed a proxy using the hard-copy proxy form and who wish to change the instructions using another hard-copy form, should contact Capita Asset Services on 0871 664 0300 or 44 371 664 0300 if calling from outside the United Kingdom.
Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge.
Calls outside the United Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open 09.00 to 17.30 Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, the appointment received last before the latest time for the receipt of proxies will take precedence.
In order to revoke a proxy instruction, members will need to inform the Company.
Members should send a signed hard copy notice clearly stating their intention to revoke a proxy appointment to Capita Asset Services, PXS1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF.
In the case of a member which is a company, the revocation notice must be executed under its common seal or signed on its behalf by an officer of the company or an attorney for the company.
Any power of attorney or any other authority under which the revocation notice is signed or a duly certified copy of such power of attorney must be included with the revocation notice.
If a member attempts to revoke their proxy appointment but the revocation is received after the time for receipt of proxy appointments see page 81 then, subject to paragraph 4, the proxy appointment will remain valid.
Location of the Annual General Meeting etc.
venues St. Pauls, 200Aldersgate Conference Centre, London EC1A 4HD St. Pauls ALDERSGA ALDERSGA ALDERSGATE TE TE EXIT 1 EXIT 3 MUSEUM OF MUSEUM OF MUSEUM OF LO LO LON N ND D DO O ON N N EXIT 2 SAINT SAINT SAINT BARTHOL BARTHOL BARTHOLOMEW'S OMEW'S OMEW'S HOSPIT HOSPIT HOSPITAL AL AL Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 80 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 LONDON WALL A1211 N I A T I R H A R T S L T B I E T L T T S E U G CLOTH FAIR A T N O M BLE ST WOOD ST INS LE GRAND
