Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Fidelity 13.
THAT the Directors be and they are hereby generally and China Special Situations PLC will be held at Merchant Taylors unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 551 of Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB, on 26 July 2017 at the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers 11.00 am for the following purposes: of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in that section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 1.
To receive and adopt the Annual Report and Financial approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of Statements for the year ended 31 March 2017. the issued share capital of the Company including Treasury Shares as at 9 June 2017 and so that the Directors may 2.
To declare that a final dividend for the year ended impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements 31 March 2017 of 2.50 pence per Ordinary Share be paid which they consider necessary or appropriate to deal with to shareholders who appear on the register as at close of Treasury Shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, business on 30 June 2017. regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, any 3.
To re-elect Mr Nicholas Bull as a Director.
territory or any other matter, such authority to expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting AGM of 4.
To re-elect Mr David Causer as a Director.
the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of this 5.
To re-elect Mr John Ford as a Director.
resolution, whichever is the earlier, but so that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements 6.
To re-elect The Hon Peter Pleydell-Bouverie as a Director.
before the expiry of this authority which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry as 7.
To re-elect Ms Elisabeth Scott as a Director.
if the authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
To re-elect Ms Vera Hong Wei as a Director.
All previous unexpired authorities are revoked, but without prejudice to any allotment of shares or grant of rights already 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the made, offered or agreed to be made pursuant to such section headed The Remuneration Policy set out on page 28 authorities.
To approve the Remuneration Policy as stated in the Directors 14.
THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 13, as set out above, Remuneration Report on page 28. the Directors be and they are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 570-573 of the Act to allot equity securities as 11.
To reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as Auditor of the Company to defined in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at authority given by the said resolution 13 and or to sell which financial statements are laid before the Company.
Ordinary Shares held by the Company as Treasury Shares for cash, as if Section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such 12.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors allotment, or sale, provided that this power shall be limited: remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of a to the allotment of equity securities or sale of Treasury which Resolution 13 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 571,354 and Resolutions 14 and 15 as special resolutions.
approximately 10% of the aggregate nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company including Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption Treasury Shares as at 9 June 2017 : and rights Resolutions 13 and 14 will, if approved, authorise the Directors b in either case, by the condition that allotments of equity to allot a limited number of the new Ordinary Shares or sell any securities or sales of Treasury Shares may only be made Ordinary Shares which the Company elects to hold in Treasury pursuant to this authority at a price of not less than the for cash without first offering such shares to existing ordinary NAV per share.
shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
The limit set by the Board is 10% of the number of Ordinary Shares of the Company and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next AGM including Treasury shares in issue on 9 June 2017.
The Directors of the Company or the date 15 months after the passing of will only issue new Ordinary Shares, or dispose of Ordinary Shares this resolution, whichever is the earlier, save that this authority held in Treasury, under this authority in order to take advantage of shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements before opportunities in the market as they arise and only if they believe the expiry of this authority, and the Directors may allot equity it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so.
Any securities in relation to such an offer or agreement as if the Ordinary Shares held in Treasury would be re-issued at no less authority conferred by this resolution had not expired.
than Net Asset Value NAV per share, or at a premium to NAV per share.
This would ensure that the net effect of repurchasing and then re-issuing the Ordinary Shares would enhance NAV per share.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 65 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Notice of Meeting continued Authority to repurchase shares Notes: Resolution 15 is a special resolution which, if approved, will renew 1.
A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the number AGM may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and to speak of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares on 9June and vote instead of him.
A member may appoint more than 2017 for immediate cancellation or for retention as Treasury one proxy in relation to the AGM provided that each proxy Shares, at the determination of the Board.
Once shares are held is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different in Treasury, the Directors may only dispose of them in accordance share or shares held by that member.
A proxy need not be a with the relevant legislation by subsequently selling the shares member of the Company.
for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within guidelines set 2.
A Form of Proxy is enclosed and must be returned to the from time to time by the Board in the light of prevailing market Registrar at the address on the form to arrive not later than conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the market at prices 11.00 am on 24 July 2017.
Completion and return of the form below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby resulting in an of proxy will not prevent a shareholder from subsequently increased NAV per share.
attending the meeting and voting in person if they so wish.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and 3.
To be effective, the instrument appointing a proxy, and any unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases or a copy of any such authority certified notarially or in some within the meaning of Section 693 of the Act of Ordinary other way approved by the Directors, must be deposited with Shares of 1 penny each in the capital of the Company the the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, PXS1, The shares provided that: Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting or a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than purchased shall be 82,731,980: 48 hours after it is demanded, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be b the minimum price which may be paid for a share is used.
In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be the vote shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of paid for a share is the higher of: the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle be determined by the order in which the names stand in the market quotations for a share taken from the London Register of Members.
Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is 5.
To appoint a proxy or to give or amend an instruction to a purchased: and previously appointed proxy via the CREST system, the CREST message must be received by the issuers agent RA10 by ii the amount stipulated by the European Commission 11.00 am on 24 July 2017.
For this purpose, the time of pursuant to Article 5 6 of the Market Abuse Regulation receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the EU No.
596 2014: timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the message.
After this time any change of instructions to a proxy conclusion of the next AGM of the Company unless such appointed through CREST should be communicated to the authority is renewed prior to such time: and proxy by other means.
CREST Personal Members or other e the Company may make a contract to purchase shares CREST sponsored members and those CREST Members who under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry have appointed voting service provider s should contact their of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or CREST sponsor or voting service provider s for assistance with partly after the expiration of such authority and may make appointing proxies via CREST.
For further information on CREST a purchase of shares pursuant to any such contract.
procedures, limitations and systems timings please refer to the CREST Manual.
We may treat as invalid a proxy appointment By Order of the Board sent by CREST in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 FIL Investments International a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
In any Secretary case your proxy form must be received by the Companys 9 June 2017 Registrar no later than 11.00 am on 24 July 2017.
66 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event:5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 6.
All members are entitled to attend and vote at the AGM 11.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more and ask questions.
The right to vote at the meeting will be corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all determined by reference to the Register of Members as at of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in close of business on 24 July 2017. relation to the same shares.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person 12.
Shareholders and any proxies or representatives they appoint nominated under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to understand that by attending the meeting they are expressly enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreeing that they are willing to receive any communications, agreement between him and the member by whom he was including communications relating to the Companys securities, nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone made at the meeting.
else appointed as a proxy for the meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish 13.
It is possible that, pursuant to requests made by members of to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, to give instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting the Company may be required to publish on its website a rights.
The statement of the rights of members in relation to statement setting out any matter relating to the audit of the the appointment of proxies in Note 2 above does not apply to Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the Nominated Persons.
The right described in that paragraph can conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM or only be exercised by members of the Company.
any circumstance connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting at which 8.
If the Chairman, as a result of any proxy appointments, is the Annual Report and Financial Statements were laid.
The given discretion as to how the votes which are the subject Company may not require the shareholders requesting any of those proxies are cast and the voting rights in respect of such website publication to pay its expenses in complying those discretionary proxies, when added to the interests in the with such requests.
Where the Company is required to place a Companys securities already held by the Chairman, result in statement on a website under Section 527 of the Companies the Chairman holding such number of voting rights that he has Act 2006, it must forward the statement to the Companys a notifiable obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Auditor not later than the time when it makes the statement Rules, the Chairman will make the necessary notifications to available on the website.
The business which may be dealt the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
As a result, with at the AGM includes any statement that the Company has any member holding 3% or more of the voting rights in the been required under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 Company who grants the Chairman a discretionary proxy in to publish on its website.
respect of some or all of those voting rights and so would otherwise have a notification obligation under the Disclosure 14.
No Director has a service contract with the Company.
and Transparency Rules, need not make separate notification to the Company and the Financial Conduct Authority.
A copy of this notice and other information required by Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006 is published on the 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Companys website at www.
Regulations 2001, the Company has specified that to be entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting Registered office: Beech Gate, Millfield Lane, Lower Kingswood, and for the purpose of determining the number of votes Tadworth, Surrey KT20 6RP.
they may cast, members must be entered on the register of members by close of business on 24 July 2017.
If the meeting is adjourned then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the register of members at close of business on the day two days before the time fixed for the adjourned meeting, or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned meeting, at any other time specified in that notice.
As at 9 June 2017 the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document the Companys issued share capital consisted of 571,354,480 Ordinary Shares.
The number of Treasury Shares held by the Company was 19,440,000.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the Company as at 9 June 2017 was 551,914,480.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 67 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Glossary to the Annual Report AIC Chinese Renminbi The Association of Investment Companies.
The Company is a Currency of the PRC.
Chinese Stock Exchanges AIF The Shanghai Stock Exchange, the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Alternative Investment Fund.
any other stock exchange located within the PRC from time to time.
AIFM Collateral Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
The Board has appointed Assets provided as security.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited to act as the Companys AIFM.
Contract for Dierence CFD A contract for difference is a derivative.
It is a contract between AIFMD the Company and an investment bank at the end of which the The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive is a European parties exchange the difference between the opening price and Union Directive implemented on 22 July 2014. the closing price of the underlying asset of the specified financial instrument.
It does not involve the Company buying or selling the Auditor underlying asset, only agreeing to receive or pay the movement in its share price.
A contract for difference allows the Company to Ernst & Young LLP or such other auditor, as the Company may gain access to the movement in the share price by depositing a appoint from time to time.
small amount of cash known as margin.
The Company may reason that the asset price will rise, by buying long position or fall, Benchmark Index by selling short position.
If the Company holds long positions, MSCI China Index total return in UK sterling and is a composite dividends are received and interest is paid.
If the Company holds of China B, H, Red Chip and P Chip share classes.
short positions, dividends are paid.
Capita Asset Services Custodian The Companys Registrar.
An entity that holds as intermediary the Companys assets, arranges the settlement of transactions and administers income, Cenkos Securities proxy voting and corporate actions.
The Companys Custodian is The Companys Broker.
China A Shares Debt Shares traded on the Chinese Stock Exchanges in Chinese Bank borrowings and long contracts for difference.
Foreign investors were unable to participate in the China A Shares market until the introduction of the QFII program in Depositary 2002 which provided a legal framework for licensed QFIIs to invest An entity that oversees the custody, cash arrangements and other in China A shares on the Chinese Stock exchanges and certain AIFM responsibilities of the Company.
J. P. Morgan Europe Limited other securities previously not eligible for investment by foreign act as the Companys Depositary.
Derivatives China B Shares Financial instruments whose value is derived from the value of Shares traded on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange and Shanghai an underlying asset or other financial instruments such as stocks, Stock Exchange in Hong Kong dollars and US dollars, respectively.
bonds, currency exchange rates, real estate and commodities, or The shares were originally intended to be available only to foreign market benchmarks such as interest rates.
The main categories individuals and institutional investors, however, since February of derivatives are contracts for difference, warrants, futures, and 2001 they have been available to domestic individual investors options.
who trade through legal foreign currency accounts.
Discount China H Shares If the share price of the Company is lower than the Net Asset Shares in companies incorporated in the PRC and listed on the Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
They are available to non-Chinese trading at a discount.
It is shown as a percentage of the Net Asset investors and are traded in Hong Kong dollars on the Hong Kong Value per Ordinary Share.
68 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event:5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Equity Linked Notes or ELN Index Linked Securities Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to specific Debt instruments whose return on investment is linked to changes equities or equity markets.
The return on equity linked notes may in interest rates, stock exchanges, or other price indices.
be determined by an equity index, a basket of equities, or a single equity.
Initial Public Oering IPO An initial public offering IPO is the first sale of stock by a private Fair Value company to the public.
IPOs are often issued by smaller, younger The carrying value in the Balance Sheet which represents the companies seeking the capital to expand, but can also be done amount that would be received or paid on disposal of the by large privately owned companies looking to become publicly financial asset or liability.
FIL Investment Manager FIL Limited and each of its subsidiaries.
FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited.
FIL Limited Investment Managers The ultimate parent company of the FIL Group of companies.
Together, represents the Investment Manager and the Unlisted Incorporated in Bermuda.
Fidelity Management Agreement FIL Investments International.
The agreement between FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and the Company regarding the management of the Forward Currency Contract Companys investments dated 17 July 2014.
An agreement to buy or sell a currency, commodity or other asset Management Agreements at a specified future date and at a predetermined price.
It is not standardised and is not traded on organised exchanges.
Together, represents the Management Agreement and the Unlisted Management Agreement.
Future or Future Contract Management Fee An agreement to buy or sell a stated amount of a security, currency or commodity at a specific future date and at a The annual management fee is 1.0% of the Net Asset Value of the pre-agreed price.
Gearing Manager Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited as appointed as the Manager in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Gross Assets Directive AIFMD and has delegated the investment management Net Assets plus borrowings.
of the Company to the investment managers.
Gross Asset Exposure MSCI China Index The value of the portfolio to which the Company is exposed, The Benchmark Index of the investment performance of the whether through direct or indirect investment including the Company, UK sterling equivalent.
economic value of the exposure in the underlying asset of the derivatives, but excluding forward currency contracts.
MSCI China Mid Cap Index Designed to measure the performance of the mid cap segment Hedging of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 15% of A hedge position demonstrates risk reduction qualities by the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity delivering short exposure to an asset which has regional universe.
congruence and a correlation of at least 80% to long exposures in the Companys portfolio.
It therefore distinguishes itself from MSCI China Small Cap Index a short which is a position not opened with the objective of Designed to measure the performance of the small cap segment reducing the long exposure in the portfolio.
Qualifying hedge of the China market.
The Index represents approximately 14% of exposures do not count towards the short exposure limits.
For the free float-adjusted market capitalisation of the China equity the purposes of calculating Gross Asset Exposure, the exposure universe.
attributed to the hedge positions will be deducted from the exposure of the corresponding long positions.
Short positions are added to long positions in arriving at the Gross Asset Exposure.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 69 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Glossary to the Annual Report continued Net Asset Value NAV Pre-emption Rights Net Asset Value is sometimes described as Shareholders Funds Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that a company and is the total value of the Companys assets less the total value offering a new issue of shares must first make an offer of these of its liabilities.
For valuation purposes it is common to express the shares, on the same or more favourable terms, in proportion to Net Asset Value on a per share basis.
the nominal value held by existing shareholders.
At each annual general meeting, the Board seek shareholder approval to disapply Net Asset Value NAV per Ordinary Share pre-emption rights provision, up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
The NAV per Ordinary Share is calculated as Shareholders Funds divided by the number of Ordinary Shares in issue.
Premium Ongoing Charges If the share price of the Company is higher than the Net Asset Ongoing charges are the regular, recurring operational expenses Value per Ordinary Share, the Companys shares are said to be of the Company.
Finance costs, taxation and the costs of buying trading at a premium.
The premium is shown as a percentage of and selling investments are excluded.
The ongoing charges figure the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share.
is calculated annually and expresses ongoing charges as a Prospectus percentage of the average daily for the reporting year.
The Prospectus of the Company dated 7 January 2011.
Options QFII An option is a contract which gives the right but not the obligation to buy or sell an underlying asset at an agreed price on or before The Investment Manager is a QFII a Qualified Foreign Institutional an agreed date.
Options may be call or put and are used to gain Investor and as such has been granted a QFII licence by the or reduce exposure to the underlying asset on a conditional basis.
China Securities Regulatory Commission CSRC which permits the Company to invest in China A Shares through the Investment P Chips Manager and has received an allocation of quota for onshore investment from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of Companies controlled by mainland individuals, with the the PRC SAFE.
establishment and origin of the company in mainland China.
PChips are incorporated outside of the PRC and traded on the Red Chips Stock Exchange of Hong Kong with a majority of revenues or assets derived from Mainland China.
Companies incorporated outside China but which are based in mainland China.
Red Chips are listed on, and are required to Performance Fee observe the filing and reporting requirements of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Red Chips typically have a significant portion of The Investment Managers are entitled to an annual performance their business interests located in mainland China and many are fee of 15% of any change in NAV attributable to performance owned, either directly or indirectly, by organisations or enterprises which is more than 2% above the returns on the MSCI China Index controlled by the Chinese state, provinces or municipalities.
total return in UK sterling after making good any cumulative under-performance, including the 2% hurdle, carried forward from Registrar previous years, subject to a maximum performance fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% of the arithmetic mean of the value of The entity that manages the Companys shareholders register.
The assets with the valuation calculated at the end of each month Companys Registrar is Capita Asset Services.
Return Portfolio The return generated in a given period from investments: The Companys portfolio which may be made up of equities, index linked securities, equity linked notes and other debt securities, Revenue Return reects the dividends and interest from cash deposits, money market instruments, foreign currency investments and other income, net of expenses, finance costs exchange transactions and other interests including derivative and taxation: instruments such as futures, options and Contracts For Difference.
Capital Return reects on the capital, excluding any capital return: and Portfolio Manager Dale Nicholls is the appointed Portfolio Manager of the Company Total Return reects the aggregate of revenue and capital and is responsible for managing the Companys assets.
PRC The Peoples Republic of China excluding Taiwan, Hong Kong and the Macau Special Administrative Region of the PRC.
70 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event:5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Secretarial Agreement The agreement between the Secretary and Company regarding the provision of company secretarial and administrative services dated 25 February 2010 and novated by a deed dated 17 July 2014.
Shareholders Funds Also described as Net Asset Value, Shareholders Funds represent the total value of the Companys assets less the total value of its liabilities as shown in the balance sheet.
Short Stock Exposure The position of the Company when it has sold a security or derivative that it does not own but is now committed to eventually purchase in order to satisfy its obligation to sell.
It is a strategy used to capitalise on an expected decline in the securitys or derivatives price.
Treasury Shares Ordinary Shares of the Company that have been repurchased by the Company and not cancelled but held in Treasury.
These shares do not receive dividends, have no voting rights and are excluded from the Net Asset Value calculation.
Unlisted Investment Manager FIL Investment Services UK Limited.
Unlisted Management Agreement The agreement between the Company and FIL Investment Services UK Limited for the management of the unlisted investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated this function to FIL Investments International.
Unlisted Companies Companies not listed on a regulated stock exchange.
They are stated at best estimate of fair value, based on recognised valuation techniques which may take account of recent arms length transactions in the investments.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited is the Unlisted Investment Manager.
Variable Interest Entity VIE A variable interest entity VIE is an entity where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to an investor being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
Warrants A derivative security that gives the Company the right to purchase securities usually equity from the issuer at a specific price and within a certain time frame.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 71 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
