Further Information How to invest Retail Investors Advised by IFAs The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its shares can be recommended by Independent Financial Advisers IFAs in the UK to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules in relationship to non-mainstream investment procedures and intends to continue to do so.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Investment platforms The Companys shares are traded openly on the London Stock Exchange and can be purchased through a stock broker or other financial intermediary.
The shares are available through savings plans including Investment Dealing Accounts, ISAs, Junior ISAs and SIPPs which facilitate both regular monthly investments and lump sum investments in the Companys shares.
There are a number of investment platforms that offer these facilities.
A list of some of them, that is not comprehensive nor constitutes any form of recommendation, can be found below: AJ Bell Youinvest www.
co. uk Alliance Trust Savings www.
co. uk Barclays Stockbrokers www.
co. uk Charles Stanley Direct www.
co. uk Halifax Share Dealing www.
co. uk Sharedealing Hargreave Hale www.
co. uk Hargreaves Lansdown www.
co. uk Interactive Investor www.
co. uk Saga Share Direct www.
co. uk The Share Centre www.
com Saxo Capital Markets uk.
com TD Direct Investing www.
co. uk Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 74 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Further Information How to invest Capita Asset Services share dealing service A quick and easy share dealing service is available to existing shareholders through the Companys Registrar, Capita Asset Services, to either buy or sell shares.
An online and telephone dealing facility provides an easy to access and simple to use service.
There is no need to pre-register and there are no complicated forms to fill in.
The online and telephone dealing service allows you to trade real time at a known price which will be given to you at the time you give your instruction.
To deal online or by telephone all you need is your surname, investor code, full postcode and your date of birth.
Your investor code can be found on your tax voucher or certificate.
Please have the appropriate documents to hand when you log on or call, as this information will be needed before you can buy or sell shares.
For further information on this service, please contact: www.
Telephone: 0371 664 0445 Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls outside the United Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 8.00 am 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Risk warnings Past performance is no guarantee of future performance.
The value of your investment and any income from it may go down as well as up and you may not get back the amount invested.
This is because the share price is determined by the changing conditions in the relevant stockmarkets in which the Company invests and by the supply and demand for the Companys shares.
As the shares in an investment trust are traded on a stockmarket, the share price will fluctuate in accordance with supply and demand and may not reflect the underlying net asset value of the shares: where the share price is less than the underlying value of the assets, the difference is known as the discount.
For these reasons, investors may not get back the original amount invested.
Although the Companys financial statements are denominated in sterling, it may invest in stocks and shares that are denominated in currencies other than sterling and to the extent they do so, they may be affected by movements in exchange rates.
As a result, the value of your investment may rise or fall with movements in exchange rates.
Investors should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time in the future.
The value of ISA and Junior ISA tax advantages will depend on personal circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs and Junior ISAs may not be maintained.
Avoid investment fraud Report a Scam Be ScamSmart 1 Reject cold calls If you suspect that you have been If youve received unsolicited contact about approached by fraudsters please tell the an investment opportunity, chances are FCA using the reporting form at its a high risk investment or a scam.
uk consumers reportInvestment scams are should treat the call with extreme caution.
You can also call designed to look like The safest thing to do is to hang up.
the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 genuine investments 2 Check the FCA Warning List The FCA Warning List is a list of !rms and If you have lost money to investment fraud, Spot the warning signs individuals we know are operating without you should report it to Action Fraud on Have you been: our authorisation.
0300 123 2040 or online at contacted out of the blue 3 Get impartial advice www.
uk promised tempting returns Think about getting impartial !financial and told the investment is safe advice before you hand over any money.
Find out more at called repeatedly, or Seek advice from someone unconnected to www.
uk scamsmart told the offer is only available the !rm that has approached you.
If so, you might have been contacted by fraudsters.
Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is!
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 75 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC will be held at etc.
venues St. Pauls, 200 Aldersgate Conference Centre, London EC1A 4HD on Thursday, 14 September 2017 from 12 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following as ordinary resolutions: 1.
To receive and, if thought fit, to accept the Audited Accounts and the Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 March 2017 2.
To re-elect Dr David Holbrook as a Director of the Company 3.
To re-elect Mr Samuel D. Isaly as a Director of the Company 4.
To re-elect Sir Martin Smith as a Director of the Company 5.
To re-elect Mrs Sarah Bates as a Director of the Company 6.
To re-elect Mr Humphrey van der Klugt as a Director of the Company 7.
To re-elect Mr Doug McCutcheon as a Director of the Company 8.
To re-appoint  LLP as the Companys Auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration 9.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 10.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of which resolutions 12, 13, 14 and 15 will be proposed as special resolutions: Authority to allot shares 11.
THAT in substitution for all existing authorities the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities within the meaning of section 551 of the Act up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,163,531 being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at 14 June 2017 and representing 4,654,127 shares of 25 pence each or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date at which this resolution is passed, provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018 or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed, by the Company in General Meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot relevant securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the authority conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT in substitution of all existing powers but in addition to any power conferred on them by resolution 13 set out in the notice convening the Annual General Meeting at which this resolution is proposed Notice of Annual General Meeting the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred on them by resolution 11 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting or otherwise as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment: a pursuant to an offer of equity securities open for acceptance for a period fixed by the Directors where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of holders of shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements in connection with the issue as the Directors may consider necessary, Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 76 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting appropriate or expedient to deal with equity securities representing fractional entitlements or to deal with legal or practical problems arising in any overseas territory, the requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange, or any other matter whatsoever: b provided that otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,163,531, being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 14 June 2017 and representing 4,654,127 Shares or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the meeting at which this resolution is passed, and provided further that i the number of equity securities to which this power applies shall be reduced from time to time by the number of treasury shares which are sold pursuant to any power conferred on the Directors by resolution 13 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and ii no allotment of equity securities shall be made under this power which would result in Shares being issued at a price which is less than the net asset value per Share as at the latest practicable date before such allotment of equity securities as determined by the Directors in their reasonable discretion: and and such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in General Meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might otherwise require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
THAT in substitution of all existing powers but in addition to any power conferred on them by resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting the Directors be and are hereby generally empowered pursuant to Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to sell relevant shares within the meaning of Section 560 of the Act if, immediately before the sale, such shares are held by the Company as treasury shares as defined in Section 724 of the Act treasury shares, for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such sale provided that: a where any treasury shares are sold pursuant to this power at a discount to the then prevailing net asset value of ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company Shares, such discount must be i lower than the discount to the net asset value per Share at which the Company acquired the Shares which it then holds in treasury and ii not greater than 5% to the prevailing diluted cum income net asset value per Share at the latest practicable time before such sale and for this purpose the Directors shall be entitled to determine in their reasonable discretion the discount to their net asset value at which such Shares were acquired by the Company and the net asset value per Share at the latest practicable time before such Shares are sold pursuant to this power : and b this power shall be limited to the sale of relevant shares having an aggregate nominal value of 1,163,531 being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 14 June 2017 and representing 4,654,127 Shares or, if changed, the number representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the meeting at which this resolution is passed, and provided further that the number of relevant shares to which power applies shall be reduced from time to time by the number of Shares which are allotted for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply pursuant to the power conferred on the Directors by resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, and such power shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or 15 months from the date of passing this resolution, whichever is earlier, unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in General Meeting and provided that the Company shall be entitled to make, prior to the expiry of such authority, an offer or agreement which would or might otherwise require treasury shares to be sold after such expiry and the Directors may sell treasury shares pursuant to such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 77 Further Information Notice of the Annual General Meeting Authority to repurchase ordinary shares 14.
THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the capital of the Company Shares either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or cancellation, provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of Shares authorised to be purchased is 6,976,537 representing approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital of the Company at the date of the notice convening the meeting at which this resolution is proposed : b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is 25 pence: c the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a Share is an amount equal to the greater of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Share as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Share is purchased and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest then current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of Regulation No.
2233 2003 of the European Commission Commission Regulation of 22 December 2003 implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for buy-back programmes and stabilisation of financial instruments : d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under this authority before the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority, and may make a purchase of Shares in pursuance of any such contract.
THAT the Directors be authorised to call general meetings other than the Annual General Meeting of the Company on not less that 14 working days notice, such authority to expire on the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or, if earlier, on the expiry 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution.
By order of the Board Registered Office: One Wood Street Frostrow Capital LLP London EC2V 7WS Company Secretary 14 June 2017 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 78 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017
