Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Accounts Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March existing shareholders.
Special Resolution 12 will, if passed, 2017 will be presented to the Annual General Meeting AGM.
give the Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up These accounts accompany this Notice of Meeting and to 10% of the Companys existing share capital on shareholders will be given an opportunity at the meeting to 14 June 2017, as if Section 551 of the Act does not apply.
is the same nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolutions 2 to 7 Re-election of Directors Resolution 11.
This authority will also expire on the date of Resolutions 2 to 7 deal with the re-election of each Director.
the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of Biographies of each of the Directors can be found on 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be pages 26 and 27 of the annual report.
used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury that the Directors standing for re-election continue to Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share perform effectively.
Regulations the Company is permitted to buy-back and hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for Resolution 8 Re-appointment of Auditors and the cash, rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share determination of their remuneration Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro Resolution 8 relates to the re-appointment of rata, basis to existing shareholders unless shareholders  LLP as the Companys independent agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption Auditors to hold office until the next AGM of the Company and rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power also authorises the Audit Committee to set their to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis remuneration.
pursuant to Resolution 12, Resolution 13, if passed, will give the Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a Resolution 9 and 10 Remuneration Report and non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid on any Remuneration Policy shares held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to The Directors Remuneration Report is set out in full in the such shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares annual report on pages 43 to 45.
The Directors is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Remuneration Policy is set out on page 43.
Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board Resolutions 11, 12 and 13 Issue of Shares that any re-sale of treasury shares would only take place at a Ordinary Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM will renew the narrower discount to the net asset value per share than that authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an at which they had been bought into treasury, and in any event aggregate nominal amount of 1,163,531 equivalent to at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing diluted 4,654,127 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued cum income net asset value per share, and this is reflected in share capital on 14 June 2017, being the nearest practicable the text of Resolution 13.
It is also the intention of the Board date prior to the signing of this Report.
Such authority will that sales from treasury would only take place when the expire on the date of the next AGM or after a period of Board believes that to do so would assist in the provision of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, liquidity to the market.
The number of treasury shares which whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority will have may be sold pursuant to this authority is limited to 10% of the to be renewed at the next AGM.
Companys existing share capital on 14 June 2017 reduced When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the by any equity securities allotted for cash on a non-pro rata Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing basis pursuant to Resolution 12, as described above.
This shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual shares must be offered first to such shareholders in General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever proportion to their existing holding of shares.
shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 81 Further Information Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions The Directors intend to use the authority given by Special Resolution 14 in the Notice of AGM will renew the Resolutions 11, 12 and 13 to allot shares and disapply authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99% of pre-emption rights only in circumstances where this will be Ordinary Shares in issue on 14 June 2017, being the nearest clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue practicable date prior to the signing of this Report, proceeds would be available for investment in line with the amounting to 6,976,537 Shares.
Such authority will expire Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be on the date of the next AGM or after a period of 15 months made which would effectively alter the control of the from the date of passing of the resolution, whichever is Company without the prior approval of shareholders in earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be general meeting.
renewed at the next AGM or earlier if the authority has been exhausted.
Resolution 14 Share Repurchases Resolution 15 General Meetings The Directors wish to renew the authority given by shareholders at the previous AGM.
The principal aim of a Special Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval for the share buy-back facility is to enhance shareholder value by Company to hold General Meetings other than the AGM at acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and 14 working days notice.
The Board confirms that the shorter when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The notice period would only be used where it was merited by the purchase of Shares, when they are trading at a discount to purpose of the meeting.
net asset value per share should result in an increase in the Recommendation net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
The Board considers that the resolutions relating to the This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so above items are in the best interests of shareholders as a would result in an increase in the net asset value per share whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best the shareholders that they vote in favour of the above interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM as the will be made within guidelines established from time to time Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to holdings totalling 40,265 shares.
renew this facility for another year at the AGM.
Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per Share.
Existing shares which are purchased under this authority will either be cancelled or held as Treasury Shares.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 82 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Further Information Regulatory Disclosures unaudited Global Data Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Amount of assets engaged in TRS AIFMD Disclosures The following table represents the total value of assets Investment Objective and Leverage engaged in TRS: A description of the investment strategy and objectives of the Company, the types of assets in which the Company may 000 % of AUM invest, the techniques it may employ, any applicable TRS 34,410 2.9 investment restrictions, the circumstances in which it may use Concentration Data leverage, the types and sources of leverage permitted and the Counterparties associated risks, any restrictions on the use of leverage and the maximum level of leverage which the AIFM and Portfolio The following table provides details of the counterparties and Manager are entitled to employ on behalf of the Company and their country of incorporation based on gross volume of the procedures by which the Company may change its outstanding transactions with exposure on a gross basis in investment strategy and or the investment policy can be found respect of TRS as at the balance sheet date: on page 6 under the heading Investment Strategy.
Country of The table below sets out the current maximum permitted Incorporation 000 limit and actual level of leverages for the Company: As a Goldman Sachs U. S. A 96,444 percentage of net assets JPMorgan U. S. A 20,482 Gross Commitment Aggregate transaction data Method Method Type, quality, maturity, tenor and currency of collateral Maximum level of leverage 140.0% 140.0% Actual level at 31 March 2017 119.0% 116.9% No collateral was received by the Company in respect of TRS during the year to 31 March 2017.
The collateral provided by the Company to the above counterparties is set out below.
Remuneration of AIFM Staff Following completion of an assessment of the application of Type Currency Maturity Quality 000 the proportionality principle to the FCAs AIFM Remuneration Cash USD less than n a 17,081 Code, the AIFM has disapplied the pay-out process rules with 1 day respect to it and any of its delegates.
This is because the AIFM considers that it carries out non-complex activities and Maturity tenor of TRS is operating on a small scale.
The following table provides an analysis of the maturity tenor of open TRS positions with exposure on a gross basis as at Further disclosures required under the AIFM Rules can be the balance sheet date: found within the Investor Disclosure Document on the TRS Companys website: www.
Value Maturity 000 Security Financing Transactions Disclosures 1 to 3 months 19,540 As defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, 3 to 12 months 58,620 securities financing transactions SFT include repurchase more than 1 year 38,766 transactions, securities or commodities lending and 116,926 securities or commodities borrowing, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions.
Whilst the Company does not engage in such SFTs, it does engage in Total Return Swaps TRS therefore, in accordance with Article 13 of the Regulation, the Companys involvement in and exposure to Total Return Swaps for the accounting year ended 31 March 2017 are detailed below.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 83 Further Information Regulatory Disclosures unaudited Settlement and clearing OTC derivative transactions including TRS are entered into by the Company under an International Swaps and Derivatives Associations, Inc. Master Agreement ISDA Master Agreement.
An ISDA Master Agreement is a bilateral agreement between the Company and a counterparty that governs OTC derivative transactions including TRS entered into by the parties.
All OTC derivative transactions entered under an ISDA Master Agreement are netted together for collateral purposes, therefore any collateral disclosures provided are in respect of all OTC derivative transactions entered into by the Company under the ISDA Master agreement, not just total return swaps.
Safekeeping of collateral There was no non-cash collateral provided by the Company in respect of OTC derivatives including TRS with the counterparties noted above as at the statement of financial position date.
Return and cost All returns from TRS transactions will accrue to the Company and are not subject to any returns sharing arrangements with the Companys AIFM, Portfolio Manager or any other third parties.
Returns from those instruments are disclosed in Note 9 to the Companys financial statements.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 84 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Further Information Company Information Directors Depositary Strategic Report Governance Sir Martin Smith Chairman J. P. Morgan Europe Limited 1Financial Highlights 26-27 Board of Directors Sarah Bates 25 Bank Street 2Key Information 28-30 Report of the Directors Dr David Holbrook London E14 5JP Samuel D. Isaly 3CompanyPerformance 31 Statement of Directors Auditors Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Responsibilities 4-5 Chairmans Statement Doug McCutcheon  LLP 32-39 Corporate Governance 6-7 Investment Objective and Policy 7 More London Riverside Company Registration Number London SE1 2RT 40-42 Audit Committee Report 8-10 Portfolio 3023689 Registered in England 43-45 Directors Remuneration Report 11 OrbiMed Capital LLC Prime Broker The Company is an investment company as defined under 46-51 Independent Auditors Report J. P. Morgan Securities LLC formerly J. P. Morgan 12-15 Portfolio Managers Review Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 Clearing Corp 15 Contribution by Investment The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on Suite 1, Metro Tech Roadway 14 February 1995.
The Company was incorporated as 16-19 Sector Outlook Brooklyn, NY 11201 Finsbury Worldwide Pharmaceutical Trust PLC.
USA 20-25 Business Review Website Registrars Website: www.
com Capita Asset Services The Registry Registered Office 34 Beckenham Road One Wood Street Beckenham London EC2V 7WS Kent BR3 4TU Telephone in UK : 0871 664 0300 Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Telephone from overseas : 44 371 664 0300 Financial Statements Further Information Company Secretary and Administrator E-mail: shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk 52 Income Statement 71 Shareholder Information Frostrow Capital LLP Website: www.
com 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL 53 Statement of Changes in Equity 72-73 Glossary Please contact the Registrars if you have a query about a Telephone: 0203 008 4910 certificated holding in the Companys shares.
54 Statement of Financial Position 74-75 How to Invest E-mail: info@frostrow.
com Calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone companys access charge and may 55-70 Notes to the Financial Statements 76-80 Notice of Annual General Meeting Website: www.
com be recorded for training purposes.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority applicable international rate.
Lines are open between 09.00 and 17.30 Monday 81-82 Explanatory Notes to the Resolutions to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
83-84 Regulatory Disclosures If you have an enquiry about the Company or if you would like to receive a copy of the Companys monthly fact sheet by Inside Stockbroker e-mail, please contact Frostrow Capital using the above Winterflood Securities Limited Cover Company Information e-mail address.
The Atrium Building Cannon Bridge, 25 Dowgate Hill Portfolio Manager London EC4R 2GA OrbiMed Capital LLC Keep up to date with 601 Lexington Avenue, 54th Floor Share Price Listings Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC New York NY 10022 The price of your shares can be found in various publications Website: www.
com including the Financial Times, The Daily Telegraph, The For more information about Registered under the U. S. Securities & Exchange Commission Times and The Scotsman.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Winner: The Companys net asset value per share is announced daily visit the website at and is available, together with the share price, on the Investment Week, Investment Company of the www.
com TrustNet website at www.
Year 2016, Follow us on Twitter Category: Specialist including Hedge Funds Identification Codes Shares: SEDOL : 0338530 ISIN : GB0003385308 @worldwidewh Highly Commended: BLOOMBERG : WWH LN EPIC : WWH Money Observer Trust Awards 2015, Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA Category: Best Large Trust IRS Registration Number GIIN : FIZWRN.
826 Legal Entity Identifier : 5493003YBCY4W1IMJU04 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Disability Act Copies of this annual report and other documents issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger type as appropriate.
You can contact the Registrar to the Company, Capita Registrars, which has installed telephones to allow speech and hearing impaired people who have their own telephone to contact them directly, without the need for an intermediate operator, for this service please call 0800 731 1888.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours to answer queries via this service.
Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk operator provided by the RNID you should dial 18001 followed by the number you wish to dial.
A member of the Association of Investment Companies This report is printed on Revive 100% White Silk a totally recycled paper produced using 100% recycled waste at a mill that has been awarded the ISO 14001 certificate for environmental management.
The pulp is bleached using a totally chlorine free TCF process.
This report has been produced using vegetable based inks.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 25 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1AL www.
