Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC we have not received all the information and explanations purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown we require for our audit: or or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received What an audit of financial statements involves from branches not visited by us: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the financial statements and the part of the Directors disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free with the accounting records and returns.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or We have no exceptions to report arising from this error.
This includes an assessment of: responsibility.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Directors remuneration Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration made by the Directors: and Report to be audited has been properly prepared in the overall presentation of the financial statements.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Other Companies Act 2006 reporting Directors judgements against available evidence, forming Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors financial statements.
remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no We test and examine information, using sampling and other exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We Corporate governance statement obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
We have nothing to report having In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial performed our review.
information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to Responsibilities for the financial statements and identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect the audit based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we Our responsibilities and those of the Directors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Responsibilities set out on page 31, the Directors are With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the responsible for the preparation of the financial statements Directors, we consider whether those reports include the and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Sandra Dowling Senior Statutory Auditor This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for for and on behalf of  LLP and only for the Companys members as a body in Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act London 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these 14 June 2017 opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 51
