Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Other required reporting The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Company and of the principal risks that would Consistency of other information and compliance with threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Company applicable requirements Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if Companies Act 2006 reporting we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course relation to: of the audit: the Directors confirmation on page 22 of the Annual the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the that they have carried out a robust assessment of the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the principal risks facing the Company, including those that financial statements: and would threaten its business model, future performance, the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have solvency or liquidity.
been prepared in accordance with applicable legal We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those Company and its environment obtained in the course of the risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
audit, we are required to report if we have identified any We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report the Directors explanation on page 25 of the Annual of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, as ISAs UK & Ireland reporting to how they have assessed the prospects of the Company, Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, over what period they have done so and why they consider in our opinion: that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to information in the Annual Report is: whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet materially inconsistent with the information in the its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their audited financial statements: or assessment, including any related disclosures drawing apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the We have no exceptions to report.
Directors statement that they have carried out a robust the statement given by the Directors on page 31, in assessment of the principal risks facing the Company and accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term Governance Code the Code, that they consider the viability of the Company.
Our review was substantially less in Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries understandable and provides the information necessary and considering the Directors process supporting their for members to assess the Companys position and statements: checking that the statements are in alignment performance, business model and strategy is materially with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering inconsistent with our knowledge of the Company acquired whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge in the course of performing our audit.
acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
We have no exceptions to report.
the section of the Annual Report on page 40, as required by Adequacy of accounting records and information and provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit explanations received Committee does not appropriately address matters Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 50 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017
