Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors have delegated responsibility for the maintenance the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and and integrity of the corporate and financial information regulations.
included on the Companys pages of the Managers website at www.
Visitors to the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial website need to be aware that legislation in the UK governing the statements for each financial period.
Under that law they have preparation and dissemination of the Financial Statements may elected to prepare the Financial Statements in accordance with differ from legislation in their jurisdictions.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Financial Statements are required by law The Directors confirm that to the best of our knowledge: to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss for the period.
The Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view In preparing these Financial Statements the Directors are of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the requiredto: Company: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The Annual Report includes a fair review of the development consistently: and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and uncertainties it faces.
prudent: The Directors consider the Annual Report and Financial state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and to any material departures disclosed and explained in the understandable and provide the information necessary for Financial Statements: and shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Company will Approved by the Board on 9 June 2017 and signed on its continue in business.
behalfby: The Directors are responsible for ensuring that adequate accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking Nicholas Bull reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Chairman other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Corporate Governance Statement and a Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 31 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
