GLOSSARY Adjusted net debt is the Group net debt and Development uplift is the total increase EPRA net initial yield is the annualised rents the Groups share of joint venture and funds in the value after taking account of capex generated by the portfolio, after the deduction of net debt excluding the mark-to-market on and capitalised interest of properties held an estimate of annual recurring irrecoverable effective cash flow hedges and related debt for development during the period.
It also property outgoings, expressed as a percentage adjustments and non-controlling interests.
includes any developers profit recognised of the portfolio valuation adding notional A reconciliation between Group net debt and by valuers in the period.
purchasers costs, excluding development adjusted net debt is included in Table A within and residential properties.
EPRA is the European Public Real Estate Association, the industry body EPRA NNNAV is the EPRA NAV adjusted to AGM is the Annual General Meeting of The for European REITs.
reflect the fair value of debt and derivatives and British Land Company PLC.
The 2017 AGM will to include deferred taxation on revaluations.
be held on 18 July 2017 at The Hyatt Regency EPRA cost ratio including direct London The Churchill, 30 Portman Square, vacancy costs is a proportionally consolidated EPRA occupancy rate is the ERV of occupied London W1H 7BH commencing at 11.00am.
measure of the ratio of net overheads and space divided by ERV of the whole portfolio, operating expenses against gross rental excluding developments and residential Annualised rent is the gross property rent income with both amounts excluding ground property.
receivable on a cash basis as at the reporting rents payable.
Net overheads and operating date.
Additionally, it includes the external expenses relate to all administrative and EPRA topped-up net initial yield is the valuers estimate of additional rent in respect operating expenses, net of any service fees, current annualised rent, net of costs, toppedof unsettled rent reviews, turnover rent and recharges or other income specifically intended up for contracted uplifts, where these are sundry income such as that from car parks to cover overhead and property expenses.
not in lieu of rental growth, expressed as and commercialisation, less any ground a percentage of capital value adding rents payable under head leases.
EPRA cost ratio excluding direct notional purchasers costs.
vacancy costs is the ratio calculated above, Assets under management is the full value but with direct vacancy costs removed EPRA vacancy rate is the ERV of vacant space of all assets owned and managed by British from the net overheads and operating divided by ERV of the whole portfolio, excluding Land and includes 100% of the value of all expenses balance.
assets owned by joint ventures and funds.
EPRA earnings is the IFRS profit after Estimated rental value ERV is the external BREEAM Building Research Establishment taxation attributable to shareholders of valuers opinion of the open market rent which, Environmental Assessment Method assesses the Company excluding investment and on the date of valuation, could reasonably be the sustainability of buildings against a range development property revaluations, gains expected to be obtained on a new letting or of social and environmental criteria.
losses on investing and trading property rent review of a property.
disposals, changes in the fair value of Capital return is calculated as the change financial instruments and associated ERV growth is the change in ERV over a in capital value of the portfolio, less any close-out costs and their related taxation.
period on the standing investment properties capex incurred, expressed as a percentage These items are presented in the capital expressed as a percentage of the ERV at the of capital employed start value plus capital and other column of the income statement.
ERV growth is calculated expenditure over the period, as calculated A reconciliation between profit attributable monthly and compounded for the period subject by IPD.
Capital returns are calculated to shareholders of the Company and to measurement, as calculated by IPD.
monthly and indexed to provide a return EPRA earnings is included in Table B over the relevant period.
Fair value movement is the accounting adjustment to change the book value of Contracted rent is the annualised rent EPRA NAV per share is EPRA NAV divided an asset or liability to its market value.
adjusting for the inclusion of rent subject by the diluted number of shares at the to rent free periods.
Footfall is the estimated annualised number of visitors entering our assets.
Customer satisfaction combines survey EPRA net asset value EPRA NAV is a results on overall experience ratings from proportionally consolidated measure, Footfall growth is the like-for-like movement decision makers, property directors, store representing the IFRS net assets excluding in footfall against the same period in the prior managers and visitors across our retail the mark-to-market on effective cash flow year, on properties owned throughout both and office businesses.
hedges and related debt adjustments, the comparable periods, aggregated at British mark-to-market on the convertible bonds Lands ownership share for each asset.
Developers profit is the profit on cost as well as deferred taxation on property estimated by the valuers that a developer and derivative valuations.
It includes the Gross investment activity is our share of would expect.
The developers profit valuation surplus on trading properties acquisitions, sales and capital expenditure is typically calculated by the valuers to and is adjusted for the dilutive impact on investments and development.
be a percentage of the estimated total of share options.
A reconciliation between development costs, including land and IFRS net assets and EPRA NAV is included Gross rental income is the gross accounting notional finance costs.
in Table B within the Supplementary rent receivable quoted either for the period Disclosures.
or on an annualised basis prepared under Development cost is the total cost of IFRS which requires that rental income from construction of a project to completion, fixed minimum guaranteed rent reviews and excluding site values and finance costs tenant incentives is spread on a straight-line finance costs are assumed by the valuers basis over the lease period to earliest at a notional rate of 5% per annum.
This can result in income being recognised ahead of cash flow.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 177 Other information GLOSSARY CONTINUED Group is The British Land Company PLC Net development value is the estimated end Over rented is the term used to describe and its subsidiaries and excludes its share value of a development project as determined when the contracted rent is above the estimated of joint ventures and funds where not treated by the external valuers when the building is rental value.
as a subsidiary on a line-by-line basis completed and fully let taking into account i. e. not proportionally consolidated.
tenant incentives and notional purchasers Overall topped-up net initial yield TUNIY costs.
It is based on the valuers view on ERVs, is the EPRA topped-up net initial yield, adding Headline rent is the contracted gross rent yields, letting voids and tenant incentives.
all contracted uplifts to the annualised rents.
receivable which becomes payable after all the tenant incentives in the letting have expired.
Net effective rent is the contracted gross Passing rent is the gross rent, less any rent receivable taking into account any ground rent payable under head leases.
IFRS are the International Financial Reporting rent-free period or other tenant incentives.
Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The incentives are treated as a cost-to-rent Property income distributions PIDs are and spread over the lease period to the profits distributed to shareholders which are Income return is calculated as net income earliest termination date.
subject to tax in the hands of the shareholders expressed as a percentage of capital employed as property income.
PIDs are normally paid over the period, as calculated by IPD.
Income Net equivalent yield NEY is the time weighted net of withholding tax, currently at 20%, which returns are calculated monthly and indexed average return after adding notional purchasers the REIT pays to the tax authorities on behalf of to provide a return over the relevant period.
costs that a property will produce.
Certain types of shareholder with usual practice, the equivalent yield as e. g. pension funds are tax exempt and receive Interest cover is the number of times net determined by the external valuers assume PIDs without withholding tax.
REITs also financing costs are covered by Underlying rent is received annually in arrears.
pay out normal dividends, called non-PIDs, Profit before net financing costs and taxation.
which are taxed in the same way as dividends Net initial yield NIY is the current annualised received from non REIT companies: these IPD is a brand of real estate indices, owned by rent, net of costs, expressed as a percentage are not subject to withholding tax and for MSCI, which produce independent benchmarks of capital value, after adding notional UK individual shareholders qualify for the of property returns and British Land UK purchasers costs.
Net rental income is the rental income Portfolio valuation is reported by the Groups Lettings and lease renewals are compared receivable in the period after payment of direct external valuers.
In accordance with usual both to the previous passing rent as at property outgoings which typically comprise practice, they report valuations net, after the the start of the financial year and the ground rents payable under head leases, void deduction of notional purchasers costs, including ERV immediately prior to letting.
Letting costs, net service charge expenses and other stamp duty land tax, agent and legal fees.
performance against ERV compares of direct irrecoverable property expenses.
Net achieved letting terms on long term lettings rental income is quoted on an accounting basis.
Proportionally consolidated measures include and renewals against valuation assumptions Net rental income will differ from annualised the Groups share of joint ventures and funds on like-for-like space, calculated on a net net cash rents and passing rent due to the and exclude non-controlling interests in the effective basis, aggregated at British Lands effects of income from rent reviews, net Groups subsidiaries.
ownership share for each asset.
property outgoings and accounting adjustments for fixed and minimum contracted rent reviews Rack rented is the term used to describe when Leverage see loan to value LTV.
the contracted rent is in line with the estimated rental value, implying nil reversion.
Like-for-like rental income growth Net reversionary yield NRY is the anticipated is the growth in net rental income on properties yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall Rent-free period see Tenant or lease incentives.
owned throughout the current and previous once the rent reaches the estimated rental value.
This growth rate includes REITs are property companies that allow revenue recognition and lease incentive Occupancy rate is the estimated rental value of people and organisations to invest in commercial adjustments but excludes properties held let units as a percentage of the total estimated property and receive benefits as if they directly for development in either period and lease rental value of the portfolio, excluding owned the properties themselves.
The rental accounting adjustments related to fixed and development and residential properties.
It income, after costs, is passed directly to minimum rent reviews.
includes accommodation under offer, subject shareholders in the form of dividends.
In the to asset management where they have been UK REITs are required to distribute at least Loan to value LTV is the ratio of principal taken back for refurbishment and are not 90% of their tax exempt property income to value of gross debt less cash, short term available to let as at the measurement date shareholders as dividends.
As a result, over deposits and liquid investments to the or occupied by the Group.
time, a significant proportion of the total return aggregate value of properties and investments.
for shareholders is likely to come from dividends.
Omni-channel retailing seeks to provide the The effect is that taxation is moved from the Managed portfolio consists of multi-let customer with a seamless shopping experience corporate level to the investor level as investors properties where we have control of facilities across channels, including stores, online and are liable for tax as if they owned the property and utilities management.
This empowers customers to switch directly.
British Land became a REIT in between channels during the shopper journey January 2007.
Mark-to-market is the difference between according to their preferences.
For example, they the book value of an asset or liability and its can use mobile in-store to research or make a market value.
purchase, buy online and collect in-store, or they can buy in-store and initiate a return online.
178 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Rent reviews take place at intervals agreed Reversion is change in rent estimated by Under rented is the term used to describe in the lease typically every five years and the external valuers, where the passing rent when the contracted rent is below the their purpose is usually to adjust the rent to is different to the estimated rental value.
estimated rental value ERV, implying the current market level at the review date.
For The increase or decrease of rent arises on a positive reversion.
upwards-only rent reviews, the rent will either rent reviews and letting of vacant space or remain at the same level or increase if market re-letting of expiries.
Underlying earnings per share EPS rents have increased at the review date.
consists of Underlying Profit after tax divided Scrip dividend For certain periods, British by the diluted weighted average number of Rents with fixed and minimum uplifts are Land offers its shareholders the opportunity to shares in issue during the period.
either where rents are subject to contracted receive dividends in the form of shares instead uplifts at a level agreed at the time of letting: or of cash.
This is known as a Scrip dividend.
Underlying Profit is the pre-tax EPRA earnings where the rent is subject to an agreed minimum measure with additional Company adjustments.
level of uplift at the specified rent review.
Standing investments are assets which are No Company adjustments were made in either not in the course of, or held for, development.
the current or prior period.
Retailer sales growth is the like-for-like movement in retailer in-store sales against Tenant or lease incentives are incentives Valuation movement is the change in the the same period in the prior year, on occupiers offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
portfolio valuation and sales receipts of remaining in the same unit, providing sales Typically this will be an initial rent-free period, or properties sold during the period, net of data throughout both comparable periods, a cash contribution to fit-out.
Under accounting capital expenditure, capitalised interest and aggregated at British Lands ownership rules the value of lease incentives is amortised development team costs, and transaction costs share for each asset.
through the income statement on a straightincurred, expressed as a percentage of the line basis to the earliest lease termination date.
portfolio valuation at the start of the period plus Retail planning consents are separated between net capex, capitalised interest and development A1, A2 and A3 as set out in The Town and The residual site value of a development is team costs, and transaction costs.
Country Planning Use Classes Order.
Within the calculated as the estimated net development A1 category, Open A1 permission allows for the value, less development profit, all development Virtual freehold represents a long leasehold majority of types of retail including fashion to be construction costs, finance costs assumed at tenure for a period of up to 999 years.
A accommodated, while Restricted A1 permission a notional rate of a project to completion and peppercorn, or nominal, rent is paid annually.
places limits on the types of retail that can operate notional site acquisition costs.
The residual is for example, a restriction that only bulky goods determined to be the current site value.
Weighted average debt maturity is calculated operators are allowed to trade at that site.
by multiplying each tranche of debt by the Topping out is a traditional construction remaining period to its maturity, with the Class Description Use for all any of the ceremony to mark the occasion when sum of the results being divided by total following purposes the structure of the building reaches debt in issue at the period end.
A1 Shops Shops, retail warehouses, the highest point.
hairdressers, undertakers, Weighted average interest rate is the loan travel and ticket agencies, Total property return is calculated as interest and net derivative costs per annum post offices, pet shops, the change in capital value, less any capex at the period end, divided by total debt in sandwich bars, showrooms, incurred, plus net income, expressed as issue at the period end.
domestic hire shops dry a percentage of capital employed over the cleaners, funeral directors period, as calculated by IPD.
Total property Weighted average unexpired lease term and internet cafes.
returns are calculated monthly and indexed is the average lease term remaining to to provide a return over the relevant period.
first break, or expiry, across the portfolio A2 Financial Financial services such as weighted by contracted rental income and banks and building societies, Total accounting return is the growth in including rent-frees.
The calculation professional professional services other EPRA NAV per share plus dividends paid, excludes residential leases and properties services than health and medical and this can be expressed as a percentage allocated as developments.
services and including of EPRA NAV per share at the beginning estate and employment of the period.
Yield on cost is the estimated annual rent agencies.
It does not include of a completed development divided by betting offices or pay day Total shareholder return is the growth the total cost of development including loan shops these are now in value of a shareholding over a specified site value and notional finance costs to classed as sui generis uses.
period, assuming dividends are reinvested the point of assumed rent commencement, A3 Restaurants For the sale of food and to purchase additional units of stock.
and cafes drink for consumption on the premises restaurants, Total tax contribution is a more Yield shift is a movement usually expressed snack bars and cafes.
comprehensive view of tax contributions in bps in the net equivalent yield of a property D2 Assembly Cinemas, music and concert than the accountancy-defined tax figure asset, or like-for-like portfolio, over a given and leisure halls, bingo and dance quoted in most financial statements.
period, weighted by net capital value.
halls but not night clubs, It comprises taxes and levies paid directly, swimming baths, skating as well as taxes collected from others rinks, gymnasiums or areas which we administered.
for indoor or outdoor sports and recreations.
Turnover rent is where all or a portion of the rent is linked to the sales or turnover of the occupier.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 179 Forward-looking statements This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements.
Such statements reflect current views on, among other things, our markets, activities, projections, objectives and prospects.
Such forward-looking statements can sometimes, but not always, be identified by their reference to a date or point in the future or the use of forward-looking terminology, including terms such as believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, forecasts, intends, due, plans, projects, goal, outlook, schedule, target, aim, may, likely to, will, would, could, should or similar expressions or in each case their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve inherent risks, assumptions and uncertainties because they relate to future events and depend on circumstances which may or may not occur and may be beyond our ability to control or predict.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution as actual results may differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such statements.
Important factors that could cause actual results, performance or achievements of British Land to differ materially from any outcomes or results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements include, among other things: a general business and political, social and economic conditions globally, b the consequences of the referendum on Britain leaving the EU, c industry and market trends including demand in the property investment market and property price volatility, d competition, e the behaviour of other market participants, f changes in government and other regulation, including in relation to the environment, health and safety and taxation in particular, in respect of British Lands status as a Real Estate Investment Trust, g inflation and consumer confidence, h labour relations and work stoppages, i natural disasters and adverse weather conditions, j terrorism and acts of war, k British Lands overall business strategy, risk appetite and investment choices in its portfolio management, l legal or other proceedings against or affecting British Land, m reliable and secure IT infrastructure, n changes in occupier demand and tenant default, o changes in financial and equity markets including interest and exchange rate fluctuations, p changes in accounting practices and the interpretation of accounting standards and q the availability and cost of finance.
The Companys principal risks are described in greater detail in the section of this Annual Report headed Risk Management and Principal Risks.
Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report, or the British Land website or made subsequently, which are attributable to British Land or persons acting on its behalf should therefore be construed in light of all such factors.
Information contained in this Annual Report relating to British Land or its share price or the yield on its shares are not guarantees of, and should not be relied upon as an indicator of, future performance, and nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast or profit estimate.
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of British Land speak only as of the date they are made.
Such forward-looking statements are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above and no representation, assurance, guarantee or warranty is given in relation to them whether by British Land or any of its associates, directors, officers, employees or advisers, including as to their completeness, accuracy or the basis on which they were prepared.
Other than in accordance with our legal and regulatory obligations including under the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Market Abuse Regulations, British Land does not intend or undertake to update or revise forwardlooking statements to reflect any changes in British Lands expectations with regard thereto or any changes in information, events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
This document shall not, under any circumstances, create any implication that there has been no change in the business or affairs of British Land since the date of this document or that the information contained herein is correct as at any time subsequent to this date.
180 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Design and production Addison Group addison-group.
net Print Pureprint Group The text for this Annual Report is printed on Amadeus 50 Silk and the cover is printed on Amadeus 100 Silk.
Both papers are FSC certified.
The Amadeus Silk contains 50% and 100% recovered fibre respectively.
Both stocks are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF bleached.
Printed in the UK using vegetable based inks throughout.
Both the manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to Environmental Management System ISO14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 BRITISH LAND Head Office and registered office York House 45 Seymour Street London W1H 7LX Telephone 44 0 20 7486 4466 Fax 44 0 20 7935 5552 ww w. britishland.
