SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Financial calendar 2017 18 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date 29 June 2017 Fourth quarter dividend payment date 4 August 2017 First quarter ex-dividend date 05 October 2017 First quarter dividend payment date 10 November 2017 Half year results 16 November 2017 Second quarter ex-dividend date January 2018 Second quarter dividend payment date February 2018 Third quarter ex-dividend date March 2018 Third quarter dividend payment date May 2018 Full year results May 2018 Fourth quarter ex-dividend date June 2018 Fourth quarter dividend payment date August 2018 If offered, the Board will announce the availability of a Scrip dividend alternative via the Regulatory News Service no later than four business days before each ex-dividend date.
Scrip dividend alternatives will not be enhanced.
The split between PID and non-PID income for each dividend will be announced at the same time.
Reflecting the long term nature of our business, we will cease publication of first and third quarter trading updates going forward.
We will continue to provide trading updates ahead of our AGM each year.
The next AGM is scheduled for 18 July 2017 and we will continue to provide timely updates on the business as appropriate.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 175 Other information SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED Registrars Annual General Meeting ShareGift British Land has appointed Equiniti Limited The Annual General Meeting of The British Shareholders with a small number of shares, Equiniti to administer its shareholder register.
Land Company PLC will be held at The Hyatt the value of which makes it uneconomic to Equiniti can be contacted at: Regency London The Churchill, 30 Portman sell them, may wish to consider donating their Square, London W1H 7BH on 18 July 2017 shares to charity.
ShareGift is a registered Aspect House, Spencer Road, at 11.00am.
1052686 which collects and sells Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA unwanted shares and uses the proceeds Tel: 0371 384 2143 UK callers Dividends to support a wide range of UK charities.
Tel: 44 0 121 415 7047 Overseas callers As a REIT, British Land pays Property A ShareGift donation form can be obtained Income Distribution PID and non-Property from Equiniti and further information is Lines are open from 8:30am to 5:30pm Income Distribution non-PID dividends.
available at: Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
More information on REITs and PIDs can be found in the Glossary on page 177 or ShareGift Equinitis website is: ww w. shareview.
co. uk in the Investors section of our website at The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited, By registering with Shareview, shareholders can: ww w. britishland.
com dividends 17 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AH view your British Land shareholding online: British Land dividends can be paid directly Tel: 44 0 20 7930 3737 update your details: and into your bank or building society account Website: ww w. sharegift.
org elect to receive shareholder instead of being despatched by cheque.
More information about the benefits of having Unsolicited mail dividends paid directly into your bank or British Land is required by law to make its Equiniti is also the Registrar for the BLD building society account, and the mandate share register available on request to other Property Holdings Limited Stock.
form to set this up, can be found in the organisations.
This may result in the receipt Investors section of our website at of unsolicited mail.
To limit this, shareholders British Lands Debentures Registrar is Capita ww w. britishland.
com dividends may register with the Mailing Preference and can be contacted at: Service.
For more information, or to register, Scrip Dividend Scheme visit: ww w. mpsonline.
uk The Registry British Land may offer shareholders the 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent opportunity to participate in the Scrip Dividend Honorary President BR3 4TU Scheme by offering a Scrip Alternative to a In recognition of his work building British Land Tel: 0871 664 0300 particular dividend from time to time.
The into the industry leading company it is today, Scrip Dividend Scheme allows participating Sir John Ritblat was appointed as Honorary Calls cost 10 pence per minute plus network shareholders to receive additional shares President on his retirement from the Board extras.
Lines are open from 9.00am to 5.30pm, instead of a cash dividend.
Monday to Friday excluding public holidays.
is available on the Investors section of our website at ww w. britishland.
com Tax Share dealing facilities  The Group elected for REIT status on 1 January By registering with Shareview, Equiniti 2007, paying a 308m conversion charge to also provides existing and prospective UK Website and shareholder communications HMRC in the same year.
As a consequence of shareholders with a share dealing facility The British Land corporate website contains a the Groups REIT status, tax is not levied within for buying and selling British Land shares wealth of material for shareholders, including the corporate group on the qualifying property online or by phone.
the current share price, press releases and rental business but is instead deducted from information dividends.
The website can be distributions of such income as Property For more information, contact Equiniti accessed at ww w. britishland.
com Income Distributions to shareholders.
co. uk dealing or call income which does not fall within the REIT 03456 037 037.
Lines are open Monday to British Land encourages its shareholders regime is subject to tax within the Group in the Friday, 8.00am to 4.30pm.
Existing British Land to receive shareholder communications usual way.
This includes profits on property shareholders will need the reference number electronically.
This enables shareholders to trading activity, property related fee income given on your share certificate to register.
receive information quickly and securely as and interest income.
We continue to comfortably well as in a more environmentally friendly and pass all REIT tests ensuring that our REIT Similar share dealing facilities are provided by cost-effective manner.
If you would like further status is maintained.
other brokers, banks and financial services.
information, please visit ww w. shareview.
co. uk or telephone the Shareholder Helpline.
We work proactively and openly to maintain Registered office a constructive relationship with HMRC.
We The registered office of The British Land Shareholder fraud warning discuss matters in real-time with HMRC and Company PLC is situated at: Shareholders are reminded to be very vigilant disclose all relevant facts and circumstances, of share fraud.
This might include unsolicited particularly where there may be tax uncertainty York House telephone calls or letters offering free or the law is unclear.
HMRC assigns risk ratings 45 Seymour Street investment advice or offers to buy and sell to all large companies.
We have a low appetite London W1H 7LX shares at discounted or inflated prices.
for tax risk and HMRC considers us to be Low Tel: 44 0 20 7486 4466 Risk a status we have held since 2007 when Website: ww w. britishland.
com The Financial Conduct Authority FCA has the rating was first introduced by HMRC.
published lots of useful advice on how to protect yourself from investment scams.
This information is available on the FCA website ww w. fca.
uk scams or by calling the Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768.
176 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017
