pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 71 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Other Information for Shareholders Glossary of Terms Benchmark Leverage Ongoing Charges Ratio An index against which performance is Leverage, for the purposes of the This is calculated in accordance with compared.
For the Company this is the Alternative Investment Fund Managers guidance issued by the AIC as follows: FTSE All-Share Index.
Directive AIFMD, is not synonymous the annualised ongoing charges, with gearing as defined above.
In including those charged to capital but Discount Premium addition to borrowings, it encompasses excluding interest, incurred by the The amount by which the share price of anything that increases the Companys Company, expressed as a percentage of an investment trust is lower higher than exposure, including foreign currency the average undiluted net asset value the net asset value per share.
The and exposure gained through at market value reported in the discount premium is normally expressed derivatives.
as a percentage of the net asset value of Companys exposure as a ratio of the the share.
Two Return methods of calculating such exposure The return generated in a period from Dividend Yield are set out in the AIFMD, gross and the investments.
The annual dividend expressed as a commitment.
Under the gross method, percentage of the current share price.
exposure represents the aggregate of all Capital Return the Companys exposures other than Reflects the return on capital, excluding Gearing cash balances held in base currency and any income returns.
The gearing percentage reflects the without any offsetting.
The commitment amount of borrowings that a company method takes into account hedging and Total Return has invested, with debt at par.
This other netting arrangements designed to Reflects the aggregate of capital and figure indicates the extra amount by limit risk, offsetting them against the income returns in the period.
which shareholders funds would move if total return reflects capital changes in a companys investments were to rise or the NAV and dividends paid in the fall.
A positive percentage indicates the Net Asset Value NAV period.
extent to which shareholders funds are Also described as shareholders funds, geared: a nil gearing percentage, or nil, the NAV is the value of total assets less Share Price Total Return shows a company is ungeared.
Liabilities for this purpose The share price total return reflects the A negative percentage indicates that include current and long-term liabilities.
change in the share price with dividends a company is not fully invested.
The NAV per share is calculated by reinvested in the period, and is also dividing the net asset value by the known as total shareholder return.
There are several methods of number of ordinary shares in issue.
For calculating gearing and the following has accounting purposes assets are valued been used in this report: at fair usually market value and liabilities are valued at par their Gross Gearing repayment often nominal value.
An This reflects the amount of gross alternative, NAV with debt at market borrowings in use by a company and value, values long term liabilities at their takes no account of any cash balances.
It is based on gross borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Gearing This reflects the amount of net borrowings invested, ie borrowings less cash and investments in money market funds.
It is based on net borrowings as a percentage of shareholders funds.
