pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 66 Other Information for Shareholders Notice of Annual General Meeting securities into, shares up to an aggregate nominal amount within the meaning of sections 551 3 and 6 of the Act of THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 4,891,668, this being 10% of the Companys issued ordinary IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to share capital as at 25 May 2017, such authority to expire at the what action to take, you should consult your stockbroker, conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company solicitor, accountant or other appropriate independent or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, professional adviser authorised under the Financial whichever is the earlier unless the authority is renewed or Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or revoked at any other general meeting prior to such time, but so otherwise transferred all your shares in The Edinburgh that this authority shall allow the Company to make offers or Investment Trust plc, please forward this document and agreements before the expiry of this authority which would or the accompanying Form of Proxy to the person through might require shares to be allotted, or rights to be granted, after such expiry as if the authority conferred by this resolution had whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
That: Notice Of Annual General Meeting subject to the passing of resolution number 13 set out in the notice of this meeting the Section 551 Resolution and in Notice is hereby given that the one hundred and twenty substitution for any existing authority under sections 570 and eighth Annual General Meeting of The Edinburgh Investment 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act but without Trust plc will be held at The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EP on 20 July 2017 at 11 am, for date of this resolution, the Directors be and are hereby the following purposes: empowered, in accordance with sections 570 and 573 of the Act as amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 560 1, 2 and 3 of the Act for cash, Ordinary Business either pursuant to the authority given by the Section 551 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution or if such allotment constitutes the sale of relevant resolutions all of which will be proposed as Ordinary shares which, immediately before the sale, were held by the Resolutions.
Company as treasury shares otherwise, as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this 1.
To receive and consider the Annual Financial Report for power shall be limited: the year ended 31 March 2017: 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy: a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with 3.
To approve the Annual Statement and Report on a rights issue in favour of all holders of a class of equity Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2017: securities where the equity securities attributable 4.
To declare a final dividend on the ordinary shares: respectively to the interests of all holders of securities of 5.
To re-elect Jim Pettigrew as a Director of the Company: such class are either proportionate as nearly as may be 6.
To re-elect Gordon McQueen as a Director of the to the respective numbers of relevant equity securities Company: held by them or are otherwise allotted in accordance with 7.
To re-elect Maxwell Ward as a Director of the Company: the rights attaching to such equity securities subject in 8.
To re-elect Victoria Hastings as a Director of the either case to such exclusions or other arrangements as Company: the Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation 9.
To re-elect Glen Suarez as a Director of the Company: to fractional entitlements or legal, regulatory or practical 10.
To re-elect Sir Nigel Wicks as a Director of the Company: problems under the laws of, or the requirements of, any 11.
To reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company: and regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or 12.
To authorise the Audit Committee to determine the otherwise : and remuneration of the auditor.
b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to a rights issue of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,891,668, this being 10% of the Companys Special Business issued ordinary share capital as at 25 May 2017 To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions of which 13 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and and this power shall expire at the conclusion of the next resolutions 14, 15 and 16 as Special Resolutions: Annual General Meeting of the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the 13.
THAT earlier, unless the authority is renewed or revoked at any in substitution for any existing authority under section 551 of other general meeting prior to such time, but so that this the Companies Act 2006 the Act but without prejudice to the power shall allow the Company to make offers or agreements exercise of any such authority prior to the date of this resolution before the expiry of this power which would or might require the Directors of the Company be generally and unconditionally equity securities to be allotted after such expiry as if the authorised in accordance with section 551 of the Act as power conferred by this resolution had not expired: and so that words and expressions defined in or for the purposes of amended from time to time prior to the date of the passing of this resolution, to exercise all powers of the Company to allot Part 17 of the Act shall bear the same meanings in this shares and grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any resolution.
66 pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 67 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc 15.
That: the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter appears Notes unconditionally authorised in accordance with section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the AGM is within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of the issued entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak ordinary shares of 25p each in the capital of the Company and vote in his stead.
Where more than one proxy is Shares appointed, each proxy must be appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares.
A proxy Provided always that: need not be a member of the Company.
In order to be a the maximum number of Shares hereby authorised to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of purchased shall be 29,330,443 ordinary shares being the following methods: 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the via Capita Registrars website www.
com: or Company as at 25 May 2017 : in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to b the minimum price which may be paid for a Share shall be the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset Services, 25p: PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent c the maximum price which may be paid for a Share must BR3 4ZF: or not be more than the higher of: i 5 per cent.
above the in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST average of the mid-market values of the Shares for the electronic proxy appointment service in accordance five business days before the purchase is made: or ii that with the procedures set out below stipulated by the regulatory technical standards adopted by the EU pursuant to the Market Abuse Regulation from and in each case, to be received by the Company not less time to time: than 48 hours before the time of the meeting.
Any d any purchase of Shares will be made in the market for amended proxy appointment must be received by this time.
cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value per Share as determined by the Directors : 2.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by e the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the may do so by utilising the procedures described in the Company or the date fifteen months after the passing of CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST this resolution, whichever is the earlier, unless the sponsored members, and those CREST members who have authority is renewed or revoked at any other general appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their meeting prior to such time: CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be f the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be such authority which will or may be executed wholly or valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy partly after the expiration of such authority and may make Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such contract: and with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specifications and g any shares so purchased shall be cancelled, or, if the must contain the information required for such instructions, Directors so determine and subject to the provisions of as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless section 724 to 731 of the Companies Act 2006 and any of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an applicable regulations of the United Kingdom Listing amendment to the instruction given to a previously Authority, be held or otherwise dealt with in accordance appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted with section 727 or 729 of the Companies Act 2006 as so as to be received by the issuers agent ID RA10 by the treasury shares.
latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in this document.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be 16.
That: taken to be the time as determined by the time stamp the period of notice required for general meetings of the applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host Company other than AGMs shall be not less than 14 days.
from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any changes of instructions to The resolutions are explained further in the Directors Report on pages 35 and 36. proxies through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
CREST members and, where applicable, By order of the Board their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular Invesco Asset Management Limited messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will Company Secretary therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member th concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Dated this 25 May 2017 personal member or sponsored member or has appointed Following the Annual General Meeting, shareholders will have a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives from sponsor or voting service provider s take s, such action as the Manager informally.
67 pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 68 Other Information for the Shareholders Notice of Annual General Meeting shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted 8.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In more corporate representatives who may exercise on its this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are not do so in relation to the same shares.
referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST 9.
Any member attending the AGM has the right to ask system and timings.
The CREST Manual can be reviewed at questions.
Under section 319A of the Companies Act www.
2006 the Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the 3.
A form of appointment of proxy is enclosed.
Appointment AGM but no such answer need be given if: a to do so of a proxy whether by completion of a form of would interfere unduly with the preparation for the AGM appointment of proxy, or other instrument appointing a or involve the disclosure of confidential information: b proxy or any CREST Proxy Instruction does not prevent the answer has already been given on a website in the a member from attending and voting at this meeting.
form of an answer to a question: or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the To be effective, the form of appointment of proxy, duly AGM that the question be answered.
completed and executed, together with any power of attorney or other authority under which it is signed 10.
You may not use any electronic address within the or a notarially certified copy thereof must be lodged at meaning of section 333 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the office of the Companys Registrars, Capita Asset provided in this Notice or in any related documents Services, PXS 1, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, including the proxy form to communicate with the Kent BR3 4ZF by no later than 11 amon 18 July 2017.
Company for any purposes other than those expressly stated.
A person entered on the Register of Members at close of business on 18 July 2017 a member is entitled to 11.
As at 25 May 2017 being the last practicable day prior to attend and vote at the Meeting pursuant to Regulation 41 the publication of this Notice the Companys issued share of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Any capital consists of 195,666,734 ordinary shares of 25p changes to the Register of Members after such time and each carrying one vote each.
Therefore, the total voting date shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any rights in the Company as at that date are 195,666,734. person to attend and or vote at the Meeting.
If the Meeting is adjourned, entitlement to attend and vote at 12.
A copy of this notice which is at the back of the annual the adjourned meeting, and the number of votes which financial report, and other information required by may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found the Companys register of members 48 hours before the at www.
time fixed for the adjourned meeting.
Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant 5.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Management to requests made by members of the Company under Engagement and Nominations Committees and the section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company Letters of Appointment for Directors will be available for may be required to publish on a website a statement inspection at the Companys AGM.
setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and 6.
A copy of the Articles of Association is available for the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during AGM for the financial year beginning on 1 April 2016: or normal business hours on any business day excluding ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the public holidays until the close of the AGM and will also be Company appointed for the financial year beginning on available at the AGM for at least 15 minutes prior and 1 April 2016 ceasing to hold office since the previous during the meeting.
meeting at which the annual financial report was laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006 7.
Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person in each case that the members propose to raise at the nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to relevant AGM.
enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may have a The Company may not require the members requesting right, under an agreement between him her and the any such website publication to pay its expenses in shareholder by whom he she was nominated, to be appointed complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Act 2006.
Where the Company is required to place a meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy statement on a website under section 527 of the appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may Companies Act 2006, it must forward the statement to have a right, under such an agreement, to give instructions to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
makes the statement available on the website.
The The statement of the above rights of the shareholders in business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any relation to the appointment of proxies does not apply to statement that the Company has been required under Nominated Persons.
Those rights can only be exercised by section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on shareholders of the Company.
