pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 69 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Other Information for the Shareholders Shareholder Information the Managers website, which is located The Companys Incorporation at www.
co. uk The Edinburgh Investment Trust was edinburgh.
The contents of websites referred to in this document, or accessible from links How to Invest in The Edinburgh within those websites, are not Investment Trust plc The Company incorporated in to, nor do they form The Companys shares are quoted on the part of this annual financial report.
There are a variety of ways by which investors can buy the shares.
In addition to the Managers Financial Calendar in-house schemes listed below, shares may be purchased through discretionary wealth In addition, the Company publishes managers, banks, independent financial information according to the following advisers and via a large number of calendar: execution-only trading platforms.
The Managers website contains a list of some Announcements of the larger dealing platforms as well as Annual financial report May June a link to unbiased.
co. uk, for those seeking Half-yearly financial report November financial advice, and to the AICs website for detailed information on investment Dividend Payable Timetable trusts.
1st interim November 2nd interim February 3rd interim May Share Price Final July The price of your ordinary shares can be found in the Financial Times, Daily Debenture Stock Telegraph and The Times.
Interest payable on September and 3 7 % 2022 March 4 In addition, share price information can be found using the EDIN ticker code and Annual General Meeting July on the Companys section of the Managers website of Year End 31 March www.
Location of AGM NAV Publication The one hundred and twenty eighth The NAV of the Companys ordinary Annual General Meeting of the Company shares is calculated by the Manager on a will be held at the The Merchants Hall, daily basis and is notified to the Stock 22 Hanover Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EP Exchange on the next business day.
published daily in the newspapers detailed above.
The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, will make a presentation about the Company Managers Website after the AGM.
Information relating to the Company can be found on the Companys section of 69
