pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 72 Other Information for Shareholders Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the AIFMD, the Directive The Company falls within the definition of an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the Directive and, as such, is required to have or be an authorised AIFM.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML was authorised as an AIFM, and appointed by the Company effective from 22 July 2014.
Amongst other things, regulations implementing AIFMD require certain information to be provided to prospective investors.
This information can be found in the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk edinburgh in a downloadable document entitled AIFMD Investor Information.
There have been no material changes to this information in the year to 31 March 2017 or up to the date of this report.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the Directive will be disclosed through a primary information provider.
In addition, the Directive requires information in relation to the Companys leverage both gross and commitment see Glossary on page 71 and the remuneration of the Companys AIFM IFML to be made available to investors.
Accordingly: the leverage calculated for the Company at its year end was 113.0% for both gross and commitment 2016: both 112.6%.
The limits the AIFM has set for the Company remain unchanged at 250% and 200%, respectively: the AIFM remuneration policy is available from the Companys company secretary, on request see contact details on page 70 : and the AIFM remuneration paid for the year to 31 December 2016 is set out below.
AIFM Remuneration The AIFM remuneration paid is based on the latest financial year of the AIFM, which was to 31 December 2016.
IFML does not employ any staff directly.
All staff involved in the AIF related activities of IFML are employed and paid by Invesco UK Limited or other entities in the Invesco Limited Group.
Remuneration for staff involved in AIF related activities has been apportioned based on the average assets under management of 3.6 billion for the nine AIFs managed by IFML during the reporting period.
The aggregate total remuneration apportioned to IFMLs AIF related activities for performance year 2016 is 6,631,628, of which 3,852,051 is fixed remuneration and 2,779,577 is variable remuneration.
The number of beneficiaries is 35.
IFML has identified individuals considered to have a material impact on the risk profile of IFML or the AIFs it manages AIFMD Code Staff, including Board members of IFML, senior management, heads of control functions and other risk takers whose professional activities can exert material influence on IFMLs risk profile or on an AIF it manages.
The aggregate total remuneration paid to the AIFMD Code Staff of IFML for AIF related activities is 988,243 of which 435,714 is paid to senior management and 552,529 is paid to other AIFMD Code Staff.
The total remuneration for AIFMD Code Staff excludes remuneration for staff employed by delegates.
72 pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 73 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager of The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
Invesco Fund Managers Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Invesco Limited and is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Invesco is one of the largest independent global investment management firms, with assets under management of $841.4 billion.
We aim to provide the highest returns available from markets, through active management, but in a controlled manner, conscious of the risks involved and within our clients objectives.
Assets under management as at 30 April 2017 73 pp64-74 Shareholder 30 05 2017 15:12 Page 74 Other Information for Shareholders Investment Companies Managed by Invesco Perpetual Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Investing for Income, Income Growth UK Equity Portfolio Investing for Total Returns and Capital Growth from equities, Aims to generate long-term capital and fixed interest securities or property income growth with real growth in Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc dividends from investment, primarily in Balanced Risk Portfolio The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc the UK equity market.
The portfolio may Aims to provide shareholders with an Invests primarily in UK securities with use bank borrowings.
attractive total return in differing the long-term objective of achieving: economic and inflationary environments Keystone Investment Trust plc and with low correlation to equity and 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value Aims to provide shareholders with bond market indices by gaining exposure per share in excess of the growth in long-term growth of capital mainly from to three asset classes: debt securities, the FTSE All-Share Index: and UK investments.
The Company has two equities and commodities.
2. growth in dividends per share in debenture stocks in issue.
excess of the rate of UK inflation.
The portfolio is constructed so as to Perpetual Income and Growth balance risk, is long-only, using The Company has a debenture stock in Investment Trust plc transparently-priced exchange-traded issue and, in addition, may use bank Aims to provide shareholders with futures contracts and other derivative borrowings.
capital growth and real growth in instruments to gain such exposure and dividends over the medium to longer to provide leverage.
City Merchants High Yield Trust term from a portfolio of securities listed Limited mainly in the UK equity markets.
The A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended Company has secured loan stock in Investing in Multiple Asset Classes Company that aims to generate a high issue and, in addition, may use bank borrowings.
level of income from a variety of fixed Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc income instruments combined.
The UK Equity Portfolio Company may use bank borrowings.
Global Equity Income Portfolio Investing in Smaller Companies Managed Liquidity Portfolio Invesco Income Growth Trust plc Balanced Risk Portfolio Aims to produce income and capital Invesco Perpetual UK Smaller growth superior to that of the UK stock Companies Investment Trust plc A choice of four investment policies and market and dividends paid quarterly Aims to achieve long-term total returns objectives, each intended to generate that, over time, grow at above the rate for the Companys shareholders attractive risk-adjusted returns from of inflation.
The Company may use bank primarily by investment in a broad segregated portfolios, with the ability to borrowings.
cross-section of small to medium sized switch between them, four times a year, UK quoted companies.
The Company free from capital gains tax liability.
Invesco Perpetual Enhanced Income may use bank borrowings.
Dividends are paid quarterly, apart from Limited Balanced Risk which will not normally A Jersey-incorporated closed-ended pay dividends.
Company that aims to provide a high Investing Internationally level of income, paid gross to UK investors, whilst seeking to maximise Invesco Asia Trust plc For more information total return through investing, primarily Aims to provide long-term capital in a diversified portfolio of high-yielding growth by investing in a diversified Please contact our Client Services Team corporate and government bonds.
The portfolio of Asian and Australasian on 0800 085 8677 if you would like Company seeks to balance the securities.
The Company aims to more information about the investment attraction of high-yield securities with achieve growth in its net asset value in trusts or other specialist funds listed the need for protection of capital and to excess of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan above.
Further details are also available manage volatility.
The Company uses Index, total return, in sterling terms.
on the following website: repo financing to enhance returns.
The Company may use bank borrowings.
co. uk investmenttrusts Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc Managed Liquidity Portfolio Global Equity Income Portfolio Aims to generate income from a variety Aims to provide an attractive and of fixed income instruments combined growing level of income return and with a high degree of security.
Income capital appreciation over the long term, will reduce during periods of very low predominantly through investment in a interest rates.
diversified portfolio of equities worldwide.
The portfolio may use bank borrowings.
Linkway Financial Printers Typeset and Printed in London UK 16779 74 Edinburgh Cover A4 05 06 2017 10:50 Page 03 Edinburgh Cover A4 05 06 2017 10:50 Page 1 www.
co. uk investmenttrusts Invesco Perpetual Client Services Team Freephone 0800 085 8677 Telephone lines are open Monday to Friday 8.30am - 6.30pm.
Telephone calls may be recorded and monitored for security and training purposes.
