Information for shareholders continued Subject to the relevant legislation, the shareholders can, by passing a provision under which a member of the group has an obligation an ordinary resolution, ratify any particular contract carried out in or entitlement which is, or may be, material to BT or such other breach of those provisions.
Directors appointment and retirement Definitions Under BTs Articles there must be at least two directors, who The definitions apply to the following section titled: Acquisition of manage the business of the company.
The shareholders can vary EE summary of the principal terms.
this minimum and or decide a maximum by ordinary resolution.
The Board and the shareholders by ordinary resolution may appoint Acquisition: the acquisition by BT of EE a person who is willing to be elected as a director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional director.
Articles: the articles of association of BT in force from time to time At every annual general meeting, all directors must automatically Board: the Directors of the Company from time to time retire.
A retiring director is eligible for re-election.
BT Pension Scheme: BTs main defined benefit pension scheme In addition to any power of removal under the 2006 Act, the Buy-Back Resolution: the resolution to approve the buy-back of shareholders can pass an ordinary resolution to remove a director, Ordinary Shares from Deutsche Telekom and or Orange pursuant to even though his or her time in office has not ended.
They can elect a the CP Contracts person to replace that director subject to the Articles, by passing an ordinary resolution.
A person so appointed is subject to retirement by CP Contracts: the DT CP Contract and Orange CP Contract rotation when the director replaced would have been due to retire.
Company: BT Group plc Directors borrowing powers To the extent that the legislation and the Articles allow, the Board Completion: completion of the Acquisition pursuant to the terms of can exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, to the Share Purchase Agreement which occurred on 29 January 2016 mortgage or charge its business, property and assets present and future and to issue debentures and other securities, and Consideration Shares: the Ordinary Shares to be issued by the give security either outright or as collateral security for any debt, Company to the Sellers pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement liability or obligation of the company or another person.
The Board must limit the borrowings of the company and exercise all the Directors or Board of Directors: the directors of the Company whose companys voting and other rights or powers of control exercisable names appear in the section in the shareholder circular entitled by the company in relation to its subsidiary undertakings so as to Directors, Company Secretary, Registered Office and Advisers ensure that the aggregate amount of all borrowings by the group outstanding, net of amounts borrowed intragroup among other Financial Investor: a Qualified Institutional Buyer as defined in Rule things, at any time does not exceed 35bn.
These borrowing powers 144A under the US Securities Act 1933 or a Qualified Investor may only be varied by amending the Articles.
as described in Section I 1 of Annex II to Directive 2004 39 EC, k Sinking fund, liability to further calls and change of control other than any activist fund, or any company licensed as a BTs shares are not subject to any sinking fund provision under telecommunications operator or its affiliates the Articles or as a matter of the laws of England and Wales.
No shareholder is currently liable to make additional contributions of Ordinary Shares: the ordinary shares of nominal value 5 pence each capital in respect of BTs ordinary shares in the future.
There are no in the capital of the Company, including, if the context requires, the provisions in the Articles or of corporate legislation in England and Consideration Shares Wales that would delay, defer or prevent a change of control.
Sellers: Deutsche Telekom and Orange l Disclosure of interests in shares Under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the UK Shareholder: a holder of Ordinary Shares and Shareholders shall be Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a statutory obligation construed accordingly on a person who acquires or ceases to have a notifiable interest in the relevant share capital of a public company like BT to notify the Sponsor: JP Morgan Cazenove company of that fact.
These Rules also Transaction Documents: the Share Purchase Agreement, the deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or debentures Relationship Agreement, the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement and of companies in which they are directors and certain associated the CP Contracts companies.
Under section 793 of the 2006 Act referred to in a above, BT may ascertain the persons who are or have within the last three years been interested in its shares and the nature of those Acquisition of EE summary of the principal interests.
The UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes terms strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also Share Purchase Agreement on their respective associates during the course of an offer period.
On 5 February 2015, the Share Purchase Agreement was entered into between the Company, the Sellers, who held 100% of the Material contracts issued share capital of EE on a combined basis, Deutsche Telekom The contracts summarised below not being entered into in the AG as guarantor of Deutsche Telekom and Orange SA as guarantor ordinary course of business have been entered into in the two years of Orange.
Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, the Sellers preceding the date of this document by BT or another member of agreed to sell, and the Company agreed to acquire, the entire issued the group and are, or may be, material to the group or have been share capital of EE.
The Acquisition completed on 29January 2016. entered into by BT or another member of the group and contain 268 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 269
