Information for shareholders continued The above statements are intended as a general guide to the In addition, during our integration of the EE business, we discovered current position.
Certain categories of person including recognised a roaming agreement between EE and Syriatel Mobile Telecom, an market makers, brokers and dealers may not be liable to stamp entity designated under UK EU sanctions.
Following an internal duty or SDRT or may, although not liable for the tax, be required investigation, we ceased providing services under the agreement to notify and account for it under the Stamp Duty Reserve Tax and made a voluntary disclosure to HM Treasury.
investigating whether there are additional implications under other sanctions regimes.
EE is now fully subject to BTs sanctions UK inheritance and gift taxes in connection with ordinary shares compliance policies and procedures.
and or ADSs The rules and scope of domicile are complex and action should not Limitations affecting security holders be taken without advice specific to the individuals circumstances.
There are no government laws, decrees, regulations, or other UK A lifetime gift or a transfer on death of ordinary shares and or ADSs legislation which have a material effect on the import or export of by an individual holder, who is US domiciled for the purposes of the capital, including the availability of cash and cash equivalents for UK US Estate and Gift Tax Convention and who is not a UK national use by the company except as otherwise described in Taxation US as defined in the Convention will not generally be subject to UK Holders.
inheritance tax if the gift is subject to US federal gift or US estate tax unless the tax is not paid otherwise than as a result of a specific There are no limitations under UK law restricting the right of nonexemption, deduction, exclusion, credit or allowance.
residents to hold or to vote shares in the company.
Further note on certain activities In addition, under Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, which added Section 13 r to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we are required to disclose whether BT or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or certain designated individuals or entities.
Disclosure is required even when the activities were conducted outside the US by non-US entities and even when they were conducted in compliance with applicable law.
During 2016 17, certain of the groups non-US subsidiaries or other non-US entities conducted limited activities in, or with persons from, certain countries identified by the US Department of State as State Sponsors of Terrorism or otherwise subject to US sanctions.
These activities, which generally relate to the provision of communications services to embassies and diplomatic missions of US-allied governments, other Communication Providers, news organisations, multinational corporations and other customers that require global communications connectivity, are insignificant to the groups financial condition and results of operations.
BT has a contract in place with Telecommunication Infrastructure Company TIC, to make and receive voice calls from Iran to the UK.
BT entered into a Framework Agreement with Rafsanjan Industrial Complex RIC for business consultancy services in May 2010 and provided an initial consultancy engagement under phase 1 of the agreement.
In February 2011, phase 2 was agreed with RIC however BT stopped work in December 2011 due to the geopolitical situation.
RIC made an advance payment to BT of 384,120 to carry out the phase 2 work.
We continue to explore whether the amount can be refunded.
BTs subsidiary, EE the acquisition of which was completed on 29 January 2016, has in place roaming partner agreements with Mobile Company of Iran MCI, and Taliya Company also known as Rafsanjan Industrial Complex.
These bilateral agreements allow the transmission of mobile calls.
There has been no traffic with Taliya in 2016 17.
The amounts received by EE under these contracts were less than 405,000.
In addition, EE also exchanges SMS traffic with MCI, Mobile Telecommunications Company of Esfahan and Telecommunication Kish Company.
The amounts received by EE under these contracts were less than 6,500.
274 274 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB
