THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 29.
Related party transactions Key management personnel comprise executive and non-executive directors and members of the Operating Committee.
Compensation of key management personnel is disclosed in note 5.
Amounts paid to the groups retirement benefit plans are set out in note 20.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities Financial commitments were as follows: 2017 2016 At 31 March m m Capital commitments 889 922 Other commitments 367 481 Device purchase commitments 423 260 TV programme rights commitments 2,644 2,026 Total 4,323 3,689 TV programme rights commitments, mainly relating to football broadcast rights, are those for which the licence period has not yet started.
Future minimum operating lease payments were as follows: a 2017 2016 m m Payable in the year ending 31 March: 2017 642 2018 650 614 2019 610 564 2020 558 517 2021 532 493 2022 505 453 Thereafter 4,305 4,188 Total future minimum operating lease payments 7,160 7,471 a We have revised prior year information to be on a consistent basis.
Operating lease commitments were mainly in respect of land and buildings which arose from a sale and operating leaseback transaction in 2001.
Leases have an average term of 15 years 2015 16: 16 years and rentals are fixed for an average of 15 years 2015 16: 16 years.
Other than as disclosed below, there were no contingent liabilities or guarantees at 31 March 2017 other than those arising in the ordinary course of the groups business and on these no material losses are anticipated.
Weve insurance cover to certain limits for major risks on property and major claims in connection with legal liabilities arising in the course of our operations.
Otherwise, the group generally carries its own risks.
Commitments and guarantees BDUK Under the Broadband Delivery UK programme, grants received by the group may be subject to reinvestment or repayment to the customer depending on the level of take-up.
Telefnica UK Limited leases Weve provided guarantees relating to certain leases entered into by Telefnica UK Limited formerly O2 UK Limited prior to the demerger of mmO2 from BT on 19 November 2001. mmO2 plc now part of the Telefnica Group has given BT a counter indemnity for these guarantees.
There is no exposure in the event of credit default in respect of amounts used to defease future lease obligations.
The guarantee lasts until Telefnica UK Limited has discharged all its obligations.
Legal proceedings The group is involved in various legal proceedings, including actual or threatened litigation, government or regulatory investigations.
However, save as disclosed below, the group does not currently believe that there are any legal proceedings, government or regulatory investigations that may have a material adverse impact on the operations or financial condition of the group.
In respect of each of the claims below, the nature and progression of such proceedings and investigations can make it difficult to predict the impact they will have on the group.
There are many reasons why we cannot make these assessments with certainty, including, among others, that they are in early stages, no damages or remedies have been specified, and or the often slow pace of litigation.
228 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 229 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities continued Italian business Following the groups announcement with respect to our investigation into our Italian business in January 2017, three purported securities class action complaints were filed against the company and certain current and former officers in United States courts.
All three actions are purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of BT Group ADRs between May 2012 or May 2013 and January 2017.
The actions allege that the company made materially false and or misleading statements between 2012 and 2016 regarding its internal controls, ethics and corporate governance, and financial outlook in its submissions to and filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and other public disclosure.
Plaintiffs counsel have filed motions to appoint lead plaintiff and lead counsel, and decisions on these motions have not yet been made.
We intend to defend these claims vigorously.
The issues in Italy have also resulted in engagement with certain of our regulators and other authorities in the UK and elsewhere.
As would be expected, we are cooperating fully with these bodies including the Italian authorities.
Phones 4U In December 2016, the administrators of Phones 4U Limited P4U started legal proceedings in the High Court in the United Kingdom against EE, claiming 66m in payments under a retail trading agreement, which relate to a revenue share for certain customers prior to P4Us insolvency.
We are contesting these claims and have brought counter-claims against P4U, including damages arising from P4U ceasing trading.
The administrators have also indicated an intention to start separate High Court proceedings, alleging that EE and other mobile network operators colluded to procure P4Us insolvency.
We also dispute these allegations vigorously.
Hutchison 3G Limited In May 2016, Hutchison 3G Limited H3G brought legal proceedings in the High Court in the United Kingdom against EE, alleging breach of contract relating to alleged delays in the roll out of certain free carrier coverage to H3G.
H3G is entitled to this free carrier coverage under arrangements agreed following the merger of Orange and T-Mobile, predecessors of EE.
The litigation is also at a relatively early stage and we are contesting the claims.
H3G claims damages relating to loss of business of 167m, although we dispute that there is a basis for the claim and the substantiation of the claimed damages.
Brazilian tax claims The Brazilian state tax authorities have made tax demands against certain Brazilian subsidiaries relating to the Tax on Distribution of Goods and Services ICMS, an indirect tax imposed on the provision of telecommunications services in Brazil.
The state tax authorities are seeking to impose ICMS on revenues earned on activities that the company does not consider as being part of the provision of telecommunications services, such as equipment rental and managed services.
We have disputed the basis on which ICMS is imposed and the rate which the tax authorities are seeking to apply.
We are currently contesting 35 cases, eight of which are pending appeal to the Sao Paulo Court of Appeal: and the judicial process is likely to take many years.
The current potential total of the claims is 232m.
We are vigorously contesting these tax demands.
Regulatory matters In respect of regulatory risks, the group provides for anticipated costs where an outflow of resources is considered probable and a reasonable estimate can be made of the likely outcome.
Estimates are used in assessing the likely value of the regulatory risk.
The ultimate liability may vary from the amounts provided and will be dependent upon the eventual outcome of any settlement.
We hold provisions for regulatory risks of 479m at 31 March 2017.
These provisions cover the following issues: Deemed Consent Deemed Consent is an agreed process between Openreach and its Communications Provider CP customers, which allows Openreach to halt the installation and reschedule the delivery date for providing dedicated business services known as Ethernet in a number of specific circumstances where it is beyond its control.
Ofcom found that Openreach had breached its contractual and regulatory obligations by inadequately and retrospectively applying Deemed Consent to reduce compensation payments to CPs between January 2013 and December 2014.
We hold a provision of 300m for Deemed Consent relating to estimated compensation payments to CPs resulting from Ofcoms deemed consent investigation.
The precise amount will result from discussions with affected parties, and could result in lower or higher payments than the 300m provided.
We also hold 42m within trade payables being the Ofcom fine in relation to their investigation into Ethernet deemed consent, and is therefore certain.
Court of Appeal judgment on Ethernet Dispute On 20 December 2012, Ofcom made determinations resolving disputes between BT and five communications providers C&W Worldwide, Sky, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, and Verizon concerning BTs charges for certain Ethernet services.
The Determinations found that BT had overcharged C&W Worldwide, Sky, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, and Verizon for certain Ethernet services for varying periods from April 2006 to March 2011.
All parties appealed the determinations to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT, which largely confirmed Ofcoms assessment of overcharging, and ordered BT to pay interest on the amounts overcharged.
BT and TalkTalk appealed the CATs judgment to the Court of Appeal, the hearing took place in March 2017.
230 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 231 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 30.
Financial commitments and contingent liabilities continued On 4 May 2017, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment, dismissing TalkTalks appeal that Ofcom should have used a different cost standard in assessing cost orientation, which would have resulted in higher repayments to CPs.
The Court of Appeal also dismissed BTs appeal which would have reduced the repayments.
This confirmed our view that no additional amounts were payable in relation to TalkTalks appeal.
Both BT and TalkTalk may appeal the Court of Appeal judgment to the Supreme Court.
Other regulatory matters The remaining provision reflects managements estimates of regulatory risks across a range of issues, including price and service issues.
The precise outcome of each matter depends on whether it becomes an active issue, and the extent to which negotiation or regulatory decision will result in financial settlement.
230 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 231
