THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The Relationship Agreement provides for the establishment of a ii where any third party makes or announces under Rule 2.7 of new committee of BT the Conflicted Matters Committee which the Code an offer to acquire the issued ordinary share capital of shall assess whether and to what extent the Board papers and Board BT, whether such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT meetings of BT are likely to consider or refer to any matter in respect or not: and of which the Conflicted Matters Committee believes that either: iii where BT makes any offering or issue of shares or other securities and the Orange Group takes up its rights to subscribe i BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group are competitors: or for or acquire the shares or other securities offered to it by BT.
ii there is an actual or potential conflict of interest between BT and the Deutsche Telekom Group a Conflicted Matter.
After expiry of the standstill period, the Orange Group will otherwise be free to increase its shareholding in BT.
The Conflicted Matters Committee shall comprise of at least three members including at all times the Secretary to the Board, the 3.
Lock-up Provisions Head of Competition and Regulatory Law and the Director of The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains lock-up provisions Governance.
The Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall not pursuant to which Orange SA and Orange undertake for a period of be a member of the Conflicted Matters Committee.
The Deutsche 12 months from the date of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement, Telekom Representative Director shall not attend any Board meeting subject to certain exceptions, that neither they nor any of their of BT unless a senior compliance officer of Deutsche Telekom AG has group members will, directly or indirectly, effect any Disposal.
The received prior confirmation that the Conflicted Matters Committee exceptions include: has considered whether such attendance raises any concerns in relation to a Conflicted Matter.
In the event that the Conflicted i any Disposal to the Deutsche Telekom Group: Matters Committee has a serious or immediate concern in relation to a ii where Orange SA or Orange accepts any offer by a third party Conflicted Matter, the Deutsche Telekom Representative Director shall for the whole of the ordinary share capital of BT, whether not attend any Board meetings in relation to the Conflicted Matter and by tender offer or scheme of arrangement, or provides an shall not receive any information in relation to the Conflicted Matter.
irrevocable undertaking or letter of intent to accept or vote in favour of any such offer: Deutsche Telekom AG is also entitled to receive, subject to compliance iii any Disposal to any member of the Orange Group, provided by BT with its legal and regulatory obligations, such financial or other that the transferee agrees to be bound by the restrictions of the information in relation to the BT Group as is necessary or reasonably Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: required by Deutsche Telekom AG in order to comply with its iv any sale of shares via any single off-market trade to a Financial reporting requirements and legal, regulatory or tax obligations.
Investor of up to all the shares of BT in which the Orange Group has an interest, provided that the transferee enters into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA and Orange lock-up agreement on substantially similar terms to the lock-up 1.
Standstill and Lock-up Agreement provisions of the Standstill and Lock-up Agreement: and BT entered into a Standstill and Lock-up Agreement with Orange SA v if the Orange Group owns 2% or less of the issued ordinary and Orange on Completion, which regulates the ability of the Orange share capital of the Company, any Disposal which is by way of a Group to deal in shares and other securities of BT.
The Standstill and swap or other agreement to transfer the economic ownership of Lock-up Agreement terminates if a the Ordinary Shares are no the shares.
longer listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market 4.
Orange CP Contract for listed securities or b the Orange Group ceases to be interested in Prior to any Disposal by Orange SA, Orange or any of their group more than 3% of the issued ordinary share capital of BT.
members, in accordance with paragraph 3 iv above, BT has a right of first offer in relation to the relevant shares subject to the passing 2.
Standstill Provisions of the Buy-Back Resolution, and such right is set out in the Orange The Standstill and Lock-up Agreement contains standstill provisions CP Contract.
pursuant to which Orange SA undertakes on behalf of itself and its group for a period of three years from the date of the Standstill and Pursuant to the Orange CP Contract, prior to an intended Disposal Lock-up Agreement, subject to certain exceptions, not to: to Financial Investors, the relevant selling entity is obliged to issue a notice to BT specifying the number of Ordinary Shares proposed i acquire or offer to acquire any interest in any shares or other to be sold or transferred.
BT has nine Business Days within which securities of BT as a result of which the aggregate interest of to make an offer for all of the shares detailed in the notice, or else the Orange Group and its concert parties increases above 4% of its right to make an offer will lapse.
If the offer is not accepted, the Ordinary Shares in issue at any time: selling entity may make the sale or transfer within three months of ii act in concert with any person in respect of the holding, voting the delivery of the notice to BT at a price equal to or greater than or disposition of any shares or other securities of BT: the price offered by BT.
If BT does not make an offer within the iii solicit or participate in any solicitation of Shareholders to vote in allotted time, the selling entity may sell the Ordinary Shares within a particular manner at any meeting of the Shareholders: or three months of the delivery of the notice to BT at any price.
The iv actively or publicly make any proposals for any merger, Orange CP Contract will terminate 12 months from Completion.
consolidation or share exchange involving shares or other securities of BT for the purposes of this Part only, the Standstill Provisions.
The notice from the selling entity may be issued to BT during a close period or prohibited period as such terms are defined in the Model The exceptions to the Standstill Provisions include: Code of Chapter 9 of the Listing Rules of BT.
If any such period does not expire prior to the end of the nine Business Day period within i where the Orange Group announces an offer under Rule 2.7 of which BT may elect to make an offer to buy-back the shares, BT will the Code or takes any action requiring it to make an offer under not be able to exercise its right of first offer.
Rule 9 of the Code, in each case if such offer is recommended by the Directors of BT: When exercised in conjunction with BTs right of first offer in relation to Ordinary Shares held by Deutsche Telekom AG and Deutsche Telekom, the maximum amount of Ordinary Shares BT can acquire 270 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 271
