Information for shareholders continued Articles of Association Articles c Changes in capital The following is a summary of the principal provisions of BTs Articles, The company may by ordinary resolution: a copy of which has been filed with the Registrar of Companies.
A holder of shares and a shareholder is, in either case, the person i divide all or any of its share capital into shares with a smaller entered on the companys register of members as the holder of the nominal value: and relevant shares.
Shareholders can choose whether their shares are to ii consolidate and divide all or part of its share capital into shares be evidenced by share certificates ie in certificated form or held in of a larger nominal value.
electronic ieuncertificated form in CREST the electronic settlement system in the UK.
The company may also: BT adopted new Articles of Association with effect from July i buy back its own shares: and 2015, to provide additional flexibility for BT when trying to trace ii by special resolution reduce its share capital, any capital shareholders and to amend the provisions in line with the UK redemption reserve and any share premium account.
Corporate Governance code by providing for automatic retirement of all the directors at each AGM.
d Dividends The companys shareholders can declare dividends by passing a Voting rights an ordinary resolution provided that no dividend can exceed the Subject to the restrictions described below, on a show of hands, amount recommended by the directors.
Dividends must be paid every shareholder present in person or by proxy at any general out of profits available for distribution.
If the Board considers that meeting has one vote and, on a poll, every shareholder present in the profits of the company justify such payments, they can pay person or by proxy has one vote for each share which they hold.
interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide.
Fixed dividends will be Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands unless paid on any class of shares on the dates stated for the payments of a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least thosedividends.
five shareholders at the meeting who are entitled to vote or their The directors can offer ordinary shareholders the right to choose to proxies, or by one or more shareholders at the meeting who are receive new ordinary shares, which are credited as fully paid, instead entitled to vote or their proxies and who have, between them, at of some or all of their cash dividend.
Before they can do this, the least 10% of the total votes of all shareholders who have the right companys shareholders must have passed an ordinary resolution to vote at the meeting.
authorising the directors to make this offer.
No person is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to Any dividend which has not been claimed for ten years after it was attend or vote at any general meeting or to exercise any other right declared or became due for payment will be forfeited and will belong conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person appearing to the company.
to be interested in those shares has been sent a notice under section793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public e Distribution of assets on winding up companies the power to require information with respect to interests If the company is wound up whether the liquidation is voluntary, in their voting shares and they or any interested person has failed under supervision of the court or by the court the liquidator can, with to supply to the company the information requested within 14 days the authority of a special resolution passed by the shareholders, divide after delivery of that notice.
among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the company.
These restrictions end seven days after the earlier of the date This applies whether the assets consist of property of one kind or the shareholder complies with the request satisfactorily or the different kinds.
For this purpose, the liquidator can place whatever company receives notice that there has been an approved transfer of value the liquidator considers fair on any property and decide how theshares.
the division is carried out between shareholders or different groups of shareholders.
The liquidator can also, with the same authority, transfer b Variation of rights any assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of shareholders Whenever the share capital of the company is split into different which the liquidator decides.
The liquidation of the company can classes of shares, the special rights attached to any of those classes then be finalised and the company dissolved.
No past or present can be varied or withdrawn either: shareholder can be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the Articles which could give that shareholder a liability.
i with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class: or f Transfer of shares ii with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in Certificated shares of the company may be transferred in writing nominal value of the issued shares of that class.
either by an instrument of transfer in the usual standard form or in another form approved by the Board.
The transfer form must be At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two persons signed or made effective by or on behalf of the person making the holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal transfer.
The person making the transfer will be treated as continuing amount of the issued shares of the class in question but at any to be the holder of the shares transferred until the name of the adjourned meeting, any person holding shares of the class or his person to whom the shares are being transferred is entered in the proxy is a quorum.
register of members of the company.
The company can issue new shares and attach any rights and The Board may refuse to register any transfer of any share held in restrictions to them, as long as this is not restricted by special rights certificated form: previously given to holders of any existing shares.
Subject to this, the rights of new shares can take priority over the rights of existing i which is in favour of more than four joint holders: or shares, or existing shares can take priority over them, or the new ii unless the transfer form to be registered is properly stamped shares and the existing shares can rank equally.
to show payment of any applicable stamp duty and delivered to the companys registered office or any other place the Board 266 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 267 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION decide.
The transfer must have with it: the share certificate services which the Board consider extend beyond the ordinary duties for the shares to be transferred: any other evidence which of a director.
the Board ask for to prove that the person wanting to make the transfer is entitled to do this: and if the transfer form is The directors may grant pensions or other benefits to, among executed by another person on behalf of the person making the others, any director or former director or persons connected with transfer, evidence of the authority of that person to do so.
However, BT can only provide these benefits to any director or former director who has not been an employee or held any other Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using office or executive position in the company or any of its subsidiary a relevant system as defined in the Uncertificated Securities undertakings, or to relations or dependants of, or people connected Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
The Board can refuse to to, those directors or former directors, if the shareholders approve register a transfer of an uncertificated share in the circumstances this by passing an ordinary resolution.
Directors votes If the Board decide not to register a transfer of a share, the Board A director need not be a shareholder, but a director who is not a must notify the person to whom that share was to be transferred shareholder can still attend and speak at shareholders meetings.
giving reasons for its decision.
This must be done as soon as possible and no later than two months after the company receives the Unless the Articles say otherwise, a director cannot vote on a transfer or instruction from the operator of the relevant system.
resolution about a contract in which the director has an interest this will also apply to interests of a person connected with the director.
g Untraced shareholders The company may sell any shares if the shares have been in issue If the legislation allows, a director can vote and be counted in the for at least ten years, during that period at least three dividends quorum on a resolution concerning a contract: have become payable on them and have not been cashed and BT i in which the director has an interest of which the director is not has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to the aware: or which cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give dividends by transmission.
BT must take all reasonable steps in the rise to a conflict of interest: circumstances, to trace shareholders.
This can include engaging an ii in which the director has an interest only because the director asset reunification company or other tracing agent to search for is a holder of shares, debentures or other securities of BT, or by shareholders who have not kept their details up-to date, or taking reason of any other interest in or through BT: any other steps the company considers appropriate.
Shareholders iii which involves: the giving of any security, guarantee or whose shares are sold following this process will not be able to claim indemnity to the director or any other person for money lent or the proceeds of the sale.
BT will be able to use the proceeds in any obligations incurred by the director or by any other person at way the Board from time to time thinks fit.
the request of or for the benefit of BT or the benefit of any of its subsidiary undertakings: or a debt or other obligation which h General meetings of shareholders is owed by BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings to that other Every year the company must hold an annual general meeting.
The person if the director has taken responsibility for all or any part Board can call a general meeting at any time and, under general law, of that debt or obligation by giving a guarantee, security or must call one on a shareholders requisition.
At least 21 clear days indemnity: written notice must be given for every annual general meeting.
For iv where BT or any of its subsidiary undertakings is offering every other general meeting, at least 14 clear days written notice must any shares, debentures or other securities for subscription be given.
The Board can specify in the notice of meeting a time by or purchase to which the director is or may be entitled to which a person must be entered on the register of shareholders in order participate as a holder of BT securities: or where the director will to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
The time specified be involved in the underwriting or sub-underwriting: must not be more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
v relating to any other company in which the director has an i Limitations on rights of non-resident or foreign shareholders interest, directly or indirectly including holding a position The only limitation imposed by the Articles on the rights of in that company or is a shareholder, creditor, employee or non-resident or foreign shareholders is that a shareholder whose otherwise involved in that company these rights do not apply registered address is outside the UK and who wishes to receive if the director owns 1% or more of that company or of the notices of meetings of shareholders or documents from BT must give voting rights in that company: the company an address within the UK to which they may be sent.
vi relating to an arrangement for the benefit of BT employees or former BT employees or any of BTs subsidiary undertakings j Directors which only gives the directors the same benefits that are Directors remuneration generally given to the employees or former employees to whom Excluding remuneration referred to below, each director will be the arrangement relates: paid such fee for his services as the Board decide, not exceeding vii relating to BT buying or renewing insurance for any liability 65,000 a year and increasing by the percentage increase of for the benefit of directors or for the benefit of persons who the retail prices index as defined by section 833 2 Income and include directors: Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for any 12-month period beginning viii relating to the giving of indemnities in favour of directors: 1 April 1999 or an anniversary of that date.
The company may ix relating to the funding of expenditure by any director or by ordinary resolution decide on a higher sum.
This resolution can directors: on defending criminal, civil or regulatory proceedings increase the fee paid to all or any directors either permanently or for or actions against the director or the directors: in connection a particular period.
The directors may be paid their expenses properly with an application to the court for relief: or on defending incurred in connection with the business of the company.
the director or the directors in any regulatory investigations: or which enables any director or directors to avoid incurring The Board can award extra fees to a director who: holds an executive expenditure as described in this paragraph: and position: acts as chairman or deputy chairman: serves on a Board x in which the directors interest, or the interest of directors committee at the request of the Board: or performs any other generally, has been authorised by an ordinary resolution.
266 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 267
