General information In January 2017 we reported that the investigations had revealed US Regulation that the extent and complexity of the improper practices were greater than previously identified and that these had resulted in New York Stock Exchange an overstatement of profits over a number of years.
We concluded BT, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares listed on the that the errors were not individually material to any of the groups New York Stock Exchange NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant previously issued financial statements, but that the correction of ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from the 268m in the current year would materially misstate the current year.
corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
Therefore in our financial statements for and as of 31 March 2017, we have revised our prior year income statements, balance sheets and We have reviewed the NYSEs listing standards and believe that our cash flow statements.
corporate governance practices are consistent with them, with the following exception where we do not meet the strict requirements in As part of the investigation, we also commissioned KPMG, with the standards.
These state that companies must have a nominating support and oversight from our Legal, Governance and Compliance corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent function and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting directly to directors and with written terms of reference which, in addition to both the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee and BT Group chairman, identifying individuals qualified to become board members, develops to conduct a detailed independent review to determine how the and recommends to the Board a set of corporate governance collusion and override of controls within our Italian business remained principles applicable to the company.
We have a Nominating & undetected, while management conducted its own review.
These Governance Committee whose terms of reference include governance controls, investigations and reviews are now completed.
and compliance issues see Nominating & Governance Committee Chairmans report on pages 116 to 117.
The Nominating & Management had implemented a series of remedial and compensating Governance Committees terms of reference are in line with the actions after the issues were first identified in October 2016 requirements set out in the standards.
However, the committee is and, informed by the results of their own review and the recently chaired by the chairman, Sir Michael Rake, who is not considered completed KPMG investigation, has since implemented, and plans to independent under the NYSEs listing standards.
The Board and the implement, further such actions.
These actions include suspending Nominating & Governance Committee are made up of a majority of the key members of the senior management team in Italy who have independent, non-executive directors.
now left the business and appointing a new senior management team in Italy, strengthening the monitoring controls and escalation The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the US mechanisms in our finance shared services centres, transferring Italy Securities and Exchange Commission SEC and NYSE listing standards customer billing activities to group billing services and performing require companies to comply with certain provisions relating to detailed substantive reviews of the balance sheet of our Italian their audit committee.
These include the independence of audit business and other large country operations outside the UK.
committee members and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters.
We comply fully with these As a result of the implementation of these remedial and compensating requirements.
actions, management has made all necessary adjustments in our consolidated financial statements.
Management has concluded that US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 our consolidated financial statements for the year ended, and as of, 31 March 2017 fairly present, in all material respects, our financial BT has securities registered with the SEC.
As a result, we must comply condition and results of operations.
Management also concluded that with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act which apply to the impact of all facts known to management to date are reflected in foreign issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements the consolidated financial statements.
introduced under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, in so far as they apply.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures The Audit & Risk Committee includes Nick Rose who, in the opinion of We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed the Board, is an audit committee financial expert and is independent to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports as defined for this purpose.
The Board considers that the committees under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, and the members have broad commercial knowledge and extensive business rules and regulations thereunder, is recorded, processed, summarised leadership experience, having held between them various prior roles and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and in major business, financial management, and financial function forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated supervision and that this constitutes a broad and suitable mix of to our management, including our chief executive and group finance business and financial experience on the committee.
director to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, The code of ethics we have adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanesmanagement recognises that any controls and procedures, no Oxley Act applies to the chief executive, group finance director and matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable senior finance managers.
assurance of achieving their objectives and management necessarily applies its judgement and makes assumptions about the likelihood of Controls and Procedures future events.
There can be no assurance that any design will succeed Background in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, Our assessment of our controls and procedures for this year has been regardless of how remote.
affected by the issues that have been identified in our Italian business.
We have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and In October 2016 we reported that following an initial investigation procedures.
Based upon that evaluation, our chief executive and group we had identified improper accounting practices in our Italian business finance director concluded that as a result of the material weakness and had appointed KPMG, with support and oversight from our Legal, described below, as of 31 March 2017, our disclosure controls and Governance and Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus procedures were not effective to provide reasonable assurance that Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the Audit & Risk information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file Committee and BT Group chairman, to perform an independent or furnish under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised investigation, alongside our own detailed balance sheet review and continuing investigation.
148 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 149 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION and reported, within the time periods specified in the applicable rules Remediation and forms.
Since October 2016, and later informed by the results of the recently completed KPMG investigation and managements own Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial review, management has been actively engaged in the design and Reporting implementation of remediation efforts that are intended to address Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate the identified material weakness.
The design and implementation of internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Internal control these and other remedial efforts are the responsibility of management.
over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of The actions are intended to strengthen our internal control, consolidated financial statements for external reporting purposes in governance and compliance environment and remediate the material accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as adopted by weakness described above.
These include the following: the EU.
We suspended a number of BT Italys senior management team Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial who have now left the business.
The president of our European reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore even operations has also left the business.
We have appointed a new those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable president of our European operations and a new CEO and CFO of assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and BT Italy from outside the Italian executive management team.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness 2.
We strengthened our monitoring controls and escalation to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become mechanisms as they relate to our Italian business, including in inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of relation to the reviews of reconciliations and journals.
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
We transferred the Italy customer billing activities to our group billing services function.
Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2017 based We also are in the process of evaluating additional actions to remediate on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework the material weakness and strengthen our internal control, governance 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the and compliance environment, including increasing the resources and Treadway Commission COSO.
improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit function outside the UK, and further developing our integrated risk Following this assessment, management has concluded that our and assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our controls internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of and compliance programme to reinforce the importance of doing 31 March 2017 due to the material weakness described below.
business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
Material Weakness in Internal Control over Financial Reporting Notwithstanding the identified material weakness, management has A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in concluded that our consolidated financial statements for the year internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable ended, and as of 31 March 2017 fairly present, in all material respects, possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial our financial condition and results of operations.
Management has also statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
concluded that the impact of all facts known to management to date are reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
Our Italian business is managed by a local management team within the Global Services line of business.
Individuals in Italy colluded to Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting override the period end financial close controls and overstate the Changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred results, and the monitoring controls which include the review of during 2016 17, which have materially affected, or are reasonably reconciliations, journals, results and financial position, did not operate likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting effectively to identify the overstatement in a timely manner.
are described in points 2 and 3 above under Remediation.
The group did not maintain effective controls to prevent or detect the UK Internal control and risk management collusive circumvention or override of controls related to our Italian The Board is responsible for the groups systems of internal control business.
Specifically management has identified the following internal and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of those control deficiencies related to our Italian business and the failure systems each year.
These systems are designed to manage, rather than to detect the circumvention or override of controls that together eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any system constitute a material weakness in the control environment i failure in can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the review of reconciliations ii failure in the review of journals and iii material misstatement or loss.
failure in our monitoring controls over the results and financial position of our Italian business.
For details of our assessment of our internal controls, as affected by the issues identified in our Italian business, see US Regulation on This material weakness could result in a misstatement of the account page 148. balances and disclosures relating to our Italian business that would represent material misstatements in our annual consolidated financial The Board also takes account of significant social, environmental statements that would not be prevented or detected.
and ethical matters that relate to BTs businesses and reviews BTs corporate responsibility policy annually.
The companys workplace Audit of the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial practices, specific environmental, social and ethical risks and Reporting opportunities and details of underlying governance processes are dealt Our independent registered public accounting firm, with on pages 26 to 38 in the Delivering our strategy section.
 LLP, has audited the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as stated in their report as of We have enterprise-wide risk management processes for identifying, 31 March 2017, which is included herein.
evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the group.
These processes have been in place throughout the year and have continued 148 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 149 General information continued up to the date on which this document was approved.
The processes Capital management and funding policy are in accordance with the FRC guidance on risk management, internal The objective of our capital management policy is to target an overall control and related financial and business reporting.
level of debt consistent with our credit rating objectives while investing in the business, supporting the pension fund and paying progressive Risk assessment and evaluation take place as an integral part of BTs dividends.
We have a detailed risk management process which identifies the key risks facing the group, each line of The Board reviews the groups capital structure regularly.
proposes actions which reflect the groups investment plans and risk characteristics as well as the macro-economic conditions in which we The key features of our enterprise-wide risk management and internal operate.
control process covering financial, operational and compliance controls are: Our funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and have groups anticipated requirements.
We use a combination of capital created a Group Risk Register describing the risks, owners and market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing and committed mitigation strategies.
The Group Risk Panel and the Operating borrowing facilities to fund the group.
When issuing debt, group Committee review this before it is reviewed and approved by the treasury will take into consideration the maturity profile of the groups Board: debt portfolio as well as forecast cash flows to avoid refinancing risk.
the lines of business and TSO carry out risk assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to those operations and Details of our treasury policy are included in note 27 to the ensure that the key risks are addressed: consolidated financial statements.
senior executives with responsibility for major group operations report quarterly their opinion on the effectiveness of the Financial instruments operation of internal controls in their areas of responsibility: Details of the groups financial risk management objectives and policies the groups internal auditors carry out continuing assessments of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and of the quality of risk management and control, report to foreign exchange are given in note 27 to the consolidated financial management and the Audit & Risk Committee on the status of statements.
specific areas identified for improvement and promote effective Credit risk management policy risk management in the lines of business and TSO: We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments and the effectiveness of the groups internal control procedures during derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury function the financial year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively auditors and reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit & Risk manages any exposures which arise.
Management within the lines Committee has carried out these actions for 2016 17: and of business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading the Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the balances.
effectiveness of risk management arrangements across the group.
In support of this, an annual review meeting is held with the Off-balance sheet arrangements group chief executive and the CEOs of each line of business.
Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities disclosed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements, there We have not dealt with joint ventures and associates, which BT does are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably not control, as part of the group risk management process.
They are likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial responsible for their own internal control assessment.
condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital resources.
Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 176 to 181.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing Legal proceedings verification through management review and independent review by The group is involved in various legal proceedings, including actual or internal and external auditors.
threatened litigation, government or regulatory investigations.
For The processes supporting the preparation and consolidation of the further details of legal and regulatory proceedings to which the group financial statements have been documented and are subject to annual is party please see note 30 to the consolidated financial statements on verification through the programme of testing done by our internal pages 229 to 231. auditors.
This serves to confirm the operation of the internal controls over financial reporting and compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Save as disclosed below and in note 30 to the consolidated financial The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published financial results, statements, the group does not currently believe that there are any related disclosures and accounting judgements.
The committees legal proceedings, government or regulatory investigations that may activities are set out on pages 112 to 115. have a material adverse impact on the operations or financial condition of the group.
In respect of each of the claims described in note 30 The Board has approved the formal statement of matters which the nature and progression of such proceedings and investigations are reserved to it for consideration, approval or oversight.
It has can make it difficult to predict the impact they will have on the group.
also approved the groups corporate governance framework, which There are many reasons why we cannot make these assessments with sets out the high level principles by which BT is managed and the certainty, including, among others, that they are in early stages, no responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee and the damages or remedies have been specified, and or the often slow pace groups senior executives.
As part of this framework, the development of litigation.
and implementation of certain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are reserved to identified senior executives.
Italian business Following the groups announcement with respect to our investigation into our Italian business in January 2017, three purported securities class action complaints were filed against the company and certain current and former officers in United States courts.
All three actions 150 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 151 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION are purportedly brought on behalf of purchasers of BT Group ADRs The following disclosures arent covered elsewhere in this Annual between May 2012 or May 2013 and January 2017.
The actions Report: allege that the company made materially false and or misleading BT has two employee share ownership trusts that hold BT shares statements between 2012 and 2016 regarding its internal controls, for satisfying awards under the various employee share plans.
ethics and corporate governance, and financial outlook in its submissions The Trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Investment Plan to and filings with the US Securities and Exchange Commission and may invite participants, on whose behalf it holds shares, to direct other public disclosure.
Plaintiffs counsel have filed motions to appoint it how to vote in respect of those shares.
If there is an offer for lead plaintiff and lead counsel, and decisions on these motions have not the shares or other transaction which would lead to a change of yet been made.
We intend to defend these claims vigorously.
control of BT, participants may direct the Trustee to accept the offer or agree to the transaction.
In respect of shares held in the The issues in Italy have also resulted in engagement with certain of our BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust, the Trustee abstains regulators and other authorities in the UK and elsewhere.
As would from voting those shares.
be expected, we are cooperating fully with these bodies including the If theres an offer for the shares, the Trustee doesnt have to Italian authorities.
accept or reject the offer but will have regard to the interests of the participants, may consult them to obtain their views on the offer and may otherwise take the action with respect to the offer Other information Listing Rules it thinks fair.
4CR, the information required to be No person holds securities carrying special rights with regard to disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R is on these pages: control of the company.
Proxy appointment and voting instructions must be received by Section Information Page the registrars not less than 48 hours before a general meeting see also page 266.
1 Interest capitalised Not material for Any amendment of BTs Articles of Association requires the group shareholder approval in accordance with applicable legislation.
2 Publication of unaudited financial information 20 to 21 The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and 4 Details of unusual long-term incentive schemes Not applicable the Articles of Association.
The directors are authorised to issue and allot shares, and to undertake purchases of BT shares subject 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable to shareholder approval at the AGM.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable We have no agreements with directors providing for 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash 92 and 234 compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a takeover.
There is similarly no provision for this in standard 8 Non pre-emptive issue by a major subsidiary Not applicable contracts for employees.
undertaking We arent aware of any agreements between shareholders that 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed Not applicable may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting subsidiary rights.
10 Contracts of significance involving a director or Not applicable controlling shareholder Political donations 11 Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable Our policy is that no company in the group will make contributions in shareholder cash or kind to any political party, whether by gift or loan.
However, 12 Shareholder waiver of dividends See below the definition of political donations used in the 2006 Act is very much broader than the sense in which these words are ordinarily used.
It 13 Shareholder waiver of future dividends See below could cover things like making members of parliament and others in 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable the political world aware of key industry issues and matters affecting the company, enhancing their understanding of BT.
4R 12 and 13 the trustee of the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust agrees to waive dividends payable on The authority for political donations we are requesting at the AGM the BT shares it holds for satisfying awards under various BT executive isnt intended to change this policy.
It will, however, ensure that share plans.
Under the rules of these share plans, the dividends are rethe group continues to act within the provisions of the 2006 Act invested in BT shares that are added to the relevant share awards.
requiring companies to obtain shareholder authority before they can make donations to EU political parties and or political organisations as defined in the 2006 Act.
During 2016 17, the companys wholly Other statutory information owned subsidiary, British Telecommunications plc, paid the costs of Companies Act 2006 attending corporate days at i the Conservative party conference: ii the Labour party conference and iii costs associated with Certain provisions of the 2006 Act require us to make additional participating in an event as part of the EU referendum debate.
These are described on the pages listed below: costs totalled 6,870 2015 16: 4,192.
No loans were made to any political party by any company in the BT group.
Information Page Structure of BTs share capital including the rights and 168 and 266 obligations attaching to the shares to 268 Restrictions on the transfer of BT shares and voting rights 266 to 268 Significant direct or indirect shareholdings 152 Appointment and replacement of directors 137 and 268 Significant agreements to which BT Group plc is a party 268 to 269 that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover 150 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 151
