THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 3 2 Investing for growth Transforming our costs This year we continued to focus on sustainable long-term growth, Last year our costs went up by 10%, reflecting both our revenue making several investments for the future.
The table below growth and our investment in the mobile market and customer summarises the progress made on the top priorities we set out experience.
To partly offset this we cut costs by: Review of last years priorities consolidating suppliers shared by both Consumer and EE: WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID encouraging customers to adopt a self-service approach more than 1.4m of them now have the My BT app: and We said wed Weve invested in systems and process to finding production and insourcing efficiencies in our TV business.
transform customer improve customer experience, and weve services.
employed more people to make sure that by spring of 2017, 90% of customer calls Performance in the year operating are answered in the UK or Ireland.
Were on We won several awards for our products and track to meet this target, with over 86% of calls now answered in the UK and Ireland.
services over the course of the last year.
Weve also made it easier for customers to interact with us online.
Organisation Publication Award BT product service This year we provided over 800,000 hours Mobile Industry Hottest New BT Mobile of training to our contact centre agents.
Awards MVNO PC Pro Recommended BT Smart Hub We said wed launch This football season we aired 42 Premier our new Premier League matches and 130 live games Expert Reviews Recommended BT Smart Hub League rights and from the UEFA Champions League.
We Tech Advisor Recommended BT Smart Hub Australian cricket on also broadcast 16 international Australian BT Sport.
cricket games exclusively in the UK.
Alphr Recommended BT Smart Hub We said wed trial Following successful trials of G. fastExpert Reviews Recommended BT Halo phone and launch ultrafast powered ultrafast broadband, with over Mobile Choice Awards Best Network BT Mobile broadband using 300 customers already connected across Deal Under 25 Openreach G. fast two locations in the UK Gillingham products.
and Cherry Hinton, were extending Mother & Baby Silver Award BT 7500 Baby to another 15 sites in our plan prior Monitor to our launch.
Expert Reviews Best Buy Whole Home Wi-Fi We said wed launch We launched handsets with BT Mobile Alphr Recommended Whole Home Wi-Fi mobile handsets to and created synergies with EE by create new market consolidating suppliers.
We also launched uSwitch Most Popular BT Broadband opportunities and BT Family SIM.
Provider In November 2016, we launched Plusnet Mobile.
Broadband World Best TV or media BT Sport App Forum innovation We said wed In February 2017 we started to roll out TV Connect Awards Best Content BT TV introduce a new the new BT TV YouView user interface Discovery Service YouView interface YouView user to our customers, a process thats now interface.
The Connies Contribution to YouView on BT TV User Experience The Connies Best TV Video YouView on BT TV We said wed Known as BT Call Protect, we launched Service Update launch our new this innovative new service in January Silver breakthrough 2017. service to help home Sports Technology Most innovative BT Sport phone customers Awards live event avoid nuisance calls.
D&AD Wood pencil Ultra HD We said wed Were making good progress towards this increase the aspiration, but were not there yet.
number of revenue generating units by 2.5m over the next three years.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 59 Lines of business continued Consumer continued Home phone, broadband and TV are reported on a group-wide Plusnet also won several awards: basis in the section below.
Mobile performance is also reported on a group-wide basis and can be found in the EE section on page 62.
Organisation publication Award Broadband Genie Survey Best broadband provider Home phone Awards 2017 Best customer care As of 31 March 2017, BT Group had a combined total of 10.3m home phone customers.
This Most recommended provider represents a market share of 39%.
Best technical support Most trustworthy provider home phone Best value provider customers uSwitch Broadband and Broadband provider of the year Mobile Awards 2017 Best provider customer service 10.3m Best value broadband provider Cable.
co. uk Awards 2016 Best broadband provider Broadband This year we maintained our position as the UKs Best reliability largest provider of retail fixed broadband services Best customer service with 9.3m customers, representing a market share of 37%.
Best value Over half of our retail broadband customers have a fibre broadband connection and benefit from faster internet speeds than ever before.
broadband customers 9.3m TV We have 1.7m TV customers, divided between BTTV, YouView TV on Plusnet and EE TV.
29,800 commercial premises have a BT Sport subscription, up from 27,000 last year.
BT Sport is the only place to watch BT Sports average daily viewing figures went up by the Premier League, Champions 12% in 2016.
During this time, our BT Sport app League, Europa League and FA Cup was downloaded more than 2.2m times.
all season long BT Sport channels BT Sports daily viewing figures 5 12% 60 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 61
