THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued 2017 2016 At 31 March m m The carrying amount of land and buildings, including leasehold improvements, comprised: Freehold 269 296 Leasehold 216 232 Total land and buildings 485 528 Network infrastructure Some of our network assets are jointly controlled by EE Limited with Hutchison 3G UK Limited.
These relate to shared 3G network and certain elements of network for 4G rural sites.
The net book value of the groups investment in this shared operation is 591m 2015 16: 519m and is recorded within network infrastructure.
Included within this is 179m 2015 16: 128m, being the groups share of assets owned by its joint operation MBNL.
Within network infrastructure are assets with a net book value of 8.0bn which have useful economic lives of more than 18 years.
Government grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK contracts The group receives government grants in relation to the BDUK programme and other rural superfast broadband contracts.
Where weve achieved certain service levels, or delivered the network more efficiently than anticipated, weve an obligation to either re-invest or repay grant funding.
Where this is the case, we assess and defer the income with a corresponding increase in capital expenditure.
What estimates and critical judgements have we made in accounting for our BDUK contracts?
Assessing the timing of whether and when we change the estimated take-up assumption is judgemental as it involves considering information which is not always observable.
Our consideration on whether and when to change the base case assumption is dependent on our expectation of the long term take-up trend.
Our assessment of how much grant income to defer includes consideration of the difference between the take-up percentage agreed with the local authority and the likelihood of actual take-up.
The value of the government grants deferred is disclosed in note 18.
We receive grant funding mainly under the BDUK programme which reduces the capital expenditure incurred by Openreach.
Under the terms of the programme, we have a potential obligation to either re-invest or repay grant funding depending on factors including the level of take-up achieved.
In the current year we had a net grant deferral of 28m 2015 16: 109m net grant funding mainly related to our activity on the BDUK programme.
Our base case assumption for take-up in BDUK areas has been increased to 39% following our review of the level of customer take-up.
14. Business combinations All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method regardless of whether equity instruments or other assets are acquired.
What critical judgements do we apply in accounting for business combinations?
We exercise judgement in allocating the purchase consideration to acquired assets and liabilities.
We also take into account future integration and our plan on how goodwill will be monitored post acquisition.
Assessing how much of the estimated synergies are buyer or market specific is also judgemental as it requires us to determine what a market participant could reasonably achieve, which is inherently judgemental.
Buyer specific synergies support the goodwill amount recognised while market specific synergies are factored into the fair value measurement of the acquired assets and liabilities.
We also exercise judgement in identifying all of the intangible assets we have acquired.
What other critical estimates and assumptions have we made?
We initially measure identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination, with limited exceptions, at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The fair value of an asset or liability represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or the price paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
In determining the fair value of the intangible assets acquired for EE we generally used risk-adjusted future cash flows discounted using discount rates specific to the asset.
In determining the cash flows, we have used a combination of historical data and estimates regarding revenue growth, profit margins and operating cash flows.
Tangible assets were valued by estimating current cost to purchase or replace the assets.
We used independent valuers to assist in the valuation for EE.
We didnt make any material acquisitions in the year ended 31 March 2017.
We have however revisited the provisional fair values ascribed to our acquisition of EE which took place on 29 January 2016.
This acquisition resulted in us acquiring the entire share capital of EE Limited EE from Deutsche Telekom and Orange.
The total purchase consideration amounted to 10,971m with a goodwill value of 6,430m after considering the provisional fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired of 4,541m.
During the year, weve received a purchase consideration refund from the previous owners of 20m following the finalisation of the audit of the completion balance sheet and have also finalised our reassessment of the provisional fair values within the measurement period.
This resulted in a revision to previously recognised brand, customer relationship and prepaid assets which decreased by 15m.
Our reassessment also led to a 14m decrease in receivables and an 198 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 199
