THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Operating Committee This is our key management committee.
It meets weekly and is chaired by the chief executive.
The Operating Committee has collective responsibility for running our business and Gavin Patterson Simon Lowth Marc Allera Luis Alvarez Gerry McQuade executing our strategy.
It Chief Executive Group Finance Director CEO, EE CEO, Global Services CEO, Wholesale and Ventures monitors the groups financial, Appointed as chief executive in September Appointed to the Board as group finance Appointed February 2016.
Luis was formerly Appointed March 2016.
Gerry was 2013 and on the Board since June 2008. director in July 2016.
Simon was CFO and formerly chief commercial officer for EE from president of the Europe, Middle East, Africa formerly chief sales and marketing officer at operational and customer Gavin was previously CEO, BT Retail and executive director of BG Group before the 2011 to 2015.
Prior to EE, Marc spent ten and Latin America operations of BT Global EE responsible for the Business, Wholesale service performance, and has from 2004 to 2008 was managing director, takeover by Royal Dutch Shell in February years at Three UK where he held a number Services serving some of our biggest global Product and development areas which he had BT Consumer BT Retail.
Previously Simon was CFO and an of senior positions, including chief customers.
Luis also led BT Global Services overseen since the merger in 2010 of Orange cross-business oversight of all BT, Gavin was managing director of the executive director of both AstraZeneca and commercial officer and sales and marketing Telecom Markets unit, managing business and T-Mobile.
He joined the board of Orange our lines of business.
It also consumer division of Telewest now Virgin ScottishPower.
Prior to that, Simon was a director.
Prior to his 16 years experience in with carriers and operators outside the UK.
in January 2008, and prior to Orange he was Media.
Prior to that, he spent nine years at director at McKinsey &Company.
the mobile industry Marc was GM for Sega UK Before joining BT, Luis worked at Ericsson, founding director of Virgin Mobile.
reviews the groups principal Procter & Gamble, rising to become European and Europe.
Luis has a risks and considers potential marketing director.
More specifically the Operating Committee: develops BTs strategy and budgets for the Boards approval: recommends to the Board capital expenditure and investment budgets: allocates resources across BT within plans agreed by the Board: prepares and delivers major programmes: and reviews the senior talent base and Ed Petter John Petter Graham Sutherland Howard Watson Alison Wilcox succession arrangements.
Group Corporate Affairs Director CEO, Consumer CEO, Business and Public Sector CEO, Technology, Service & Operations Group HR Director Appointed November 2016.
Alison was formerly The Operating Committee can approve, previously deputy director of corporate affairs formerly managing director, BT Consumer formerly managing director, BT Business, formerly chief architect and managing regional HR director for Vodafone Europe up to certain limits set by the Board, at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to that BT Retail and prior to that, chief operating responsible for the small and medium-sized director global IT systems and led the and prior to that, regional HR director for capital expenditure, disposals of fixed assets, had held corporate affairs roles at McDonalds officer in BT Consumer.
John was appointed enterprises unit within BT Retail and prior to technical teams behind the launch of Vodafones Africa, Middle East and Asia Pacific investments and divestments.
Some of these Europe, McKinsey & Company and the Blue chairman of the Plusnet Board in 2008 and that, CEO of BT Ireland.
Howard joined BT in 2011 footprint.
Alison joined Vodafone in 2006 as approvals are passed to sub-committees Rubicon communications consultancy, having has overseen its development as a key part and has 30 years of telecoms experience group director of leadership following a career such as the Design Council page 25 and Before joining BT, Graham held a number previously worked as a news producer and of BTs strategy.
Prior to joining BT, John held having spent time at Telewest now Virgin in consulting.
of senior management positions including editor at the BBC.
roles as marketing and commercial director Media and Cartesian, a telecommunications managing director of NTL in the Republic of at Telewest now Virgin Media and brand consultancy and software company.
Tony Chanmugam, formerly group finance Ireland.
Graham is qualified as a chartered manager at Procter & Gamble.
director, left during the year.
Dan Fitz Clive Selley Company Secretary Invitee, CEO, Openreach Sean Williams Dan is the group general counsel & Clive was appointed CEO, Openreach in Chief Strategy Officer company secretary of BT Group plc.
He was formerly CEO, BT Appointed June 2016.
Sean has led BTs He joined BT in April 2010 as its Technology, Service & Operations, CEO Group strategy, product portfolio, regulation group general counsel and was BT Innovate & Design and before that and policy since 2011 and previously for BT appointed company secretary in president, BT Global Services Portfolio & Retail.
Before joining BT in 2008, Sean was November 2012.
He is an invitee because an executive director on the board of the OFT, spent six years at Misys and 12 years the CEO of Openreach cannot be a of Ofcom, a partner of the strategy consulting at Cable & Wireless.
Dan attends all member of the Operating Committee firm LEK Consulting LLP and a non-executive Operating Committee meetings.
under the provisions of the Undertakings.
director of Williams Lea Group.
14 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 15
