THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Taxation of capital gains passive income.
BT currently believes that it did not qualify as a PFIC Unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is resident for UK tax for the tax year ended 31 March 2017.
If BT were to become a PFIC purposes in the UK or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs for any tax year, US Holders would suffer adverse tax consequences.
carries on a trade, profession, or vocation in the UK through a branch, These consequences may include having gains realised on the agency, or in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs treated as ordinary income the UK, and the ordinary shares and or ADSs have been used, held, rather than capital gains and being subject to punitive interest or acquired for the purposes of that trade, profession or vocation, the charges on certain dividends and on the proceeds of the sale or holder should not be liable for UK tax on capital gains on a disposal of other disposition of the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Furthermore, ordinary shares and or ADSs.
dividends paid by BT would not be qualified dividend income which may be eligible for reduced rates of taxation as described above.
US A US Holder who is an individual and who has ceased to be resident Holders should consult their own tax advisers regarding the potential for tax purposes in the UK on or after 17 March 1998 or who falls application of the PFIC rules to BT.
to be regarded as resident outside the UK for the purposes of any double tax treaty Treaty non-resident on or after 16 March 2005 US information reporting and backup withholding and continues to not be resident in the UK or continues to be Treaty Dividends paid on and proceeds received from the sale, exchange non-resident for a period of less than five years of assessment and or other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject who disposes of his ordinary shares or ADSs during that period may to information reporting to the IRS and backup withholding at a also be liable on his return to the UK to UK tax on capital gains, current rate of 28% which rate may be subject to change.
Certain subject to any available exemption or relief, even though he is not exempt recipients such as corporations are not subject to these resident in the UK or is Treaty non-resident at the time of disposal.
In addition, non-corporate US Holders may be required to report their investment on a Form For US federal income tax purposes, a US Holder generally will 8938.
Backup withholding will not apply, however, to a US Holder recognise capital gain or loss on the sale, exchange or other who provides a correct taxpayer identification number or certificate disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs in an amount equal to the of foreign status and makes any other required certification or who difference between the US Dollar value of the amount realised on is otherwise exempt.
Persons that are US persons for US federal the disposition and the US Holders adjusted tax basis determined in income tax purposes who are required to establish their exempt US Dollars in the ordinary shares or ADSs.
Such gain or loss generally status generally must furnish IRS Form W-9 Request for Taxpayer will be US source gain or loss, and will be treated as long-term Identification Number and Certification.
Holders that are not capital gain or loss if the ordinary shares have been held for more US persons for US federal income tax purposes generally will not than one year at the time of disposition.
Long-term capital gains be subject to US information reporting or backup withholding.
recognised by an individual US Holder generally are subject to US However, such holders may be required to provide certification of federal income tax at preferential rates.
The deductibility of capital non-US status in connection with payments received in the US or losses is subject to significant limitations.
Non-corporate US Holders through certain US-related financial intermediaries.
may also be subject to a 3.8% tax on net investment income in respect of any gains.
Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Amounts withheld as backup withholding may be credited against a holders US federal A US Holders tax basis in an ordinary share or ADS will generally be income tax liability.
A holder may obtain a refund of any excess its US Dollar cost.
The US Dollar cost of an ordinary share or ADS amounts withheld under the backup withholding rules by timely purchased with foreign currency will generally be the US Dollar value filing the appropriate claim for refund with the IRS and furnishing of the purchase price on the date of purchase, or the settlement any required information.
date for the purchase, in the case of ordinary shares or ADSs traded on an established securities market, as defined in the applicable UK stamp duty Treasury Regulations, that are purchased by a cash basis US Holder A transfer of or an agreement to transfer an ordinary share will or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects.
Such an election by generally be subject to UK stamp duty or UK stamp duty reserve an accrual basis US Holder must be applied consistently from year tax SDRT at 0.5% of the amount or value of any consideration to year and cannot be revoked without the consent of the IRS.
The provided rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5. amount realised on a sale or other disposition of ordinary shares or SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser.
It is customarily also ADSs for an amount in foreign currency will be the US Dollar value the purchaser who pays UK stamp duty.
A transfer of an ordinary of this amount on the date of sale or disposition.
On the settlement share to, or to a nominee for, a person whose business is or includes date, the US Holder will recognise US source foreign currency gain the provision of clearance services or to, or to a nominee or agent or loss taxable as ordinary income or loss equal to the difference if of, a person whose business is or includes issuing depositary receipts any between the US Dollar value of the amount received based on gives rise to a 1.5% charge to stamp duty or SDRT of either the the exchange rates in effect on the date of sale or other disposition amount of the consideration provided or the value of the share and the settlement date.
However, in the case of ordinary shares or issued rounded up in the case of stamp duty to the nearest 5.
No ADS traded on an established securities market that are sold by a UK stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of an ADS assuming cash basis US Holder or an accrual basis US Holder that so elects, it is not registered in the UK, provided that the transfer documents the amount realised will be based on the exchange rate in effect on are executed and always retained outside the UK.
the settlement date for the sale, and no exchange gain or loss will be recognised at that time.
Transfers of ordinary shares into CREST will generally not be subject to stamp duty or SDRT unless such a transfer is made for a Passive foreign investment company status consideration in money or moneys worth, in which case a liability A non-US corporation will be classified as a passive foreign to SDRT will arise, usually at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the investment company a PFIC for US federal income tax purposes consideration.
Paperless transfers of ordinary shares within CREST for any taxable year if at least 75% of its gross income consists of are generally liable to SDRT at the rate of 0.5% of the value of the passive income or at least 50% of the average value of its assets consideration.
CREST is obliged to collect SDRT from the purchaser consist of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, of the shares on relevant transactions settled within the system.
272 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 273
