Information for shareholders continued by exercise of its rights of first offer is approximately 14% of BTs Taxation of dividends share capital on an enlarged basis post-Acquisition.
The price at Under current UK tax law, BT will not be required to withhold tax which Ordinary Shares can be bought back shall be no more than at source from dividend payments it makes.
Unless a US Holder of the higher of the closing price of the Ordinary Shares on i the date ordinary shares or ADSs is resident for UK tax purposes in the UK on which BT makes an offer to buy-back the Ordinary Shares and ii or unless a US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs carries on a trade, the last trading day before the buy-back takes place.
After expiry of profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency, or, the lock-up period described above, the Orange Group will be free to in the case of a company, a permanent establishment in the UK, dispose of its shareholding in BT without further restriction.
the holder should not be liable for UK tax on dividends received in respect of ordinary shares and or ADSs.
Taxation US Holders This is a summary only of the principal US federal income tax and For US federal income tax purposes, a distribution will be treated as UK tax consequences of the ownership and disposition of ordinary ordinary dividend income.
The amount of the distribution includible shares or ADSs by US Holders as defined below who hold their in gross income of a US Holder will be the US Dollar value of the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets.
It does not address all distribution calculated by reference to the spot rate in effect on the aspects of US federal income taxation and does not address aspects date the distribution is actually or constructively received by a US that may be relevant to persons who are subject to special provisions Holder of ordinary shares, or by the Depositary.
In the case of ADSs, of US federal income tax law, including: US expatriates: insurance a US Holder who converts Sterling into US Dollars on the date of companies: tax-exempt organisations: banks: regulated investment receipt generally should not recognise any exchange gain or loss.
A companies: financial institutions: securities broker-dealers: traders US Holder who does not convert Sterling into US Dollars on the date in securities who elect a mark-to-market method of accounting: of receipt generally will have a tax basis in Sterling equal to their persons subject to alternative minimum tax: investors that directly, US Dollar value on such date.
Foreign currency gain or loss, if any, indirectly or by attribution own 10% or more of the outstanding recognised by the US Holder on a subsequent conversion or other share capital or voting power of BT: persons holding their ordinary disposition of Sterling generally will be US source ordinary income or shares or ADSs as part of a straddle, hedging transaction or loss.
In addition, in a situation where US holders receive distributions conversion transaction: persons who acquired their ordinary of previously taxed earnings and profits, foreign currency gain or loss shares or ADSs pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise as will generally be recognised as the same source as the associated compensation: or persons whose functional currency is not the US income included under Subpart F rules for US federal income tax Dollar, amongst others.
Those holders may be subject to US federal purposes.
Dividends paid by BT to a US Holder will not be eligible for income tax consequences different from those set forth below.
the US dividends received deduction that may otherwise be available to corporate shareholders.
For the purposes of this summary, a US Holder is a beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that, for US federal income tax purposes, For purposes of calculating the foreign tax credit limitation, is: a citizen or individual resident of the United States: a corporation dividends paid on the ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as or other entity taxable as a corporation for US federal income tax income from sources outside the US and generally will constitute purposes created or organised in or under the laws of the United passive income.
US Holders who do not elect to claim a credit States or any political subdivision thereof: an estate the income with respect to any foreign taxes paid in a given taxable year may of which is subject to US federal income taxation regardless of its instead claim a deduction for foreign taxes paid.
A deduction does sources, or a trust if a US court can exercise primary supervision not reduce US federal income tax on a Dollar for Dollar basis like a over the administration of the trust and one or more US persons tax credit.
The deduction, however, is not subject to the limitations are authorised to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
If a applicable to foreign credits.
partnership holds ordinary shares or ADSs, the US tax treatment of a partner generally will depend upon the status of the partner and Following recent changes in UK tax law effective from 6 April the activities of the partnership.
A partner in a partnership that 2016, UK tax credits no longer attach to any dividends paid on the holds ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult its own tax adviser ordinary shares or ADSs, irrespective of the domicile or residence of regarding the specific tax consequences of owning and disposing of the shareholder.
No question therefore arises as to the entitlement the ordinary shares or ADSs.
of any US Holder to any UK tax credit.
In particular, this summary is based on i current UK tax law and the Certain US Holders including individuals are eligible for reduced practice of Her Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC and US law rates of US federal income tax currently at a maximum of 20% in and US Internal Revenue Service IRS practice, including the Internal respect of qualified dividend income.
There could also be a 3.8% net Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, existing and proposed Treasury investment income tax on dividends to individuals and other nonregulations, rulings, judicial decisions and administrative practice, all corporate holders with income above a certain amount.
For these as currently in effect and available, ii the United Kingdom-United purposes, qualified dividend income generally includes dividends States Convention relating to estate and gift taxes, and iii the paid by a non-US corporation if, among other things, the US Holders United Kingdom-United States Tax Convention that entered into meet certain minimum holding periods and the non-US corporation force on 31 March 2003 and the protocol thereto the Convention, satisfies certain requirements, including that either i the shares or all as in effect on the date of this Annual Report, all of which ADSs with respect to which the dividend has been paid are readily are subject to change or changes in interpretation, possibly with tradable on an established securities market in the US, or ii the retroactive effect.
non-US corporation is eligible for the benefits of a comprehensive US income tax treaty such as the Convention which provides for US Holders should consult their own tax advisers as to the the exchange of information.
BT currently believes that dividends applicability of the Convention and the consequences under UK, paid with respect to its ordinary shares and ADSs should constitute US federal, state and local, and other laws, of the ownership and qualified dividend income for US federal income tax purposes.
Each disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs.
individual US Holder of ordinary shares or ADSs is urged to consult his own tax adviser regarding the availability to him of the reduced dividend tax rate in light of his own particular situation and regarding the computations of his foreign tax credit limitation with respect to any qualified dividend income paid by BT to him, as applicable.
272 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 273
