Notes to the consolidated financial statements a completed contracts that begin and end within the same annual 1.
Basis of preparation reporting period will not be revised: Preparation of the financial statements b for completed contracts that have variable consideration, the These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in transaction price at the date the contract was completed will be accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Article 4 of the IAS used rather than estimating variable consideration amounts in the Regulation and International Accounting Standards IAS and comparative reporting periods: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related interpretations, as adopted by the European Union.
The consolidated c for all reporting periods presented before the date of initial financial statements are also in compliance with IFRS as issued by the application, BT will not disclose the amount of the transaction price International Accounting Standards Board the IASB.
The consolidated allocated to the remaining performance obligations or identify when financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis.
it expects to recognise that amount as revenue.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical IFRS 15 Project cost basis, except for certain financial and equity instruments The group has determined its planned revenue and cost accounting that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial policies under IFRS 15.
Following the acquisition of EE in January statements are presented in Sterling, the functional currency of 2016, the group has extended its future IFRS 15 accounting BT Group plc, the parent company.
New and amended accounting standards effective during The group has deployed a cross-functional project team dedicated the year to the implementation of IFRS 15.
This team has been engaged During the year we revised the presentation of cash pooling in determining accounting policies under the new standard, arrangements under IAS 32, refer to the prior year revision and requantifying the transitional adjustments and selecting and classifications below.
There are no other new or amended standards implementing suitable systems solutions.
The team is also reviewing of interpretations adopted during the year that have a significant the impact on tax, intragroup trading, forecasting, the bid and impact on the financial statements.
tender process and HR and remuneration plans.
There will be a significant impact on the groups billing data and accounting New and amended accounting standards that have been issued platforms.
An IT-based solution is in development for certain areas but are not yet effective and lines of business.
New processes and controls are being designed The following standards have been issued and are effective for in addition to complement this solution.
accounting periods ending on or after 1 April 2017 and are expected to have an impact on the group financial statements.
Performance obligations IFRS 15 requires that at contract inception, we assess the goods or IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers services promised in a contract with a customer and identify as a Background performance obligation each promise to transfer to the customer.
In May 2014, IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers was Promises in a contract can be explicit, or implicit if the promises create a issued.
It was subsequently amended in September 2015 and April valid expectation to provide a good or service based on the customary 2016.
It will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January business practices, published policies, or specific statements.
Transition to IFRS 15 for BT Group plc will take place on 1 April 2018.
Results in the 2018 19 financial year will comply with IFRS 15, IFRS 15 will require disclosures relating to the group's performance with the first Annual Report and Form 20-F published in accordance obligations.
with IFRS 15 being that for the year ended 31 March 2019.
We continue to review our disclosure of revenue by products IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognising revenue and costs and services in the segment disclosure note in the light of the from contracts with customers and includes extensive disclosure requirements of IFRS 15. requirements.
The standard requires entities to apportion revenue earned from contracts to individual promises, or performance The stand-alone selling prices of the groups products and services are obligations, on a relative stand-alone selling price basis, based on a being determined.
These may be regulated prices, list prices, a costfive-step model.
plus derived price, the price of similar products when sold on a standalone basis by BT or a competitor or in some cases the contract price Transition where the price contracted represents a bespoke price that would be BT is planning to adopt IFRS 15 retrospectively and apply the new the same for a similar customer in a similar circumstance.
standard to each prior reporting period presented, ie 2016 17 and 2017 18, in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Financial Impact Accounting Estimates and Errors.
In the year of adoption, the group The group is in the process of quantifying the implications of the will record a cumulative transitional adjustment at 1 April 2016 to standard and the financial impact is not yet reasonably estimable.
All customer contracts in progress but not Based on our analysis to date we expect the acceleration of revenues completed or starting after this date will need to be revised.
notably handset revenues and deferral of costs notably third party contract acquisition costs associated with handset revenues will Our decision to adopt retrospectively depends on a number of factors significantly exceed deferred connection revenues on the adoption considering the time, effort and cost involved in doing so when date.
This will: compared to the benefits to users of the financial statements.
pull forward profits in the periods being restated: The group intends to use the following practical expedients on lead to the recognition of a contract asset: and increase equity transition, because in the view of the group, the costs of providing reserves at 1 April 2016. the information significantly outweigh any benefits: This will give rise to a one-off additional cash tax charge payable split between 2018 19 and 2019 20.
170 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 171
