Lines of business continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Performance in the year operating 2 While usage of our more traditional products Investing for growth declined as expected, in other areas we were This year weve invested in both new connectivity options for able to drive revenue growth as well as a healthy wholesale networks and the services needed to run those networks.
Looking further ahead, were developing a new strategy for the order book.
Network services This year weve trialled two new access options from Openreach: G. fast and Single Order Generic Ethernet Access.
Were ready to offer them as soon as Openreach launches them.
Meanwhile weve been developing the capability to run Ethernet services over 4G mobile networks so we can provide them more quickly and switch over to 4G if the fixed network fails.
Weve also invested in a range of new features for our Hosted Communications Services which well launch during 2017 18.
We have a long track record of running networks on our customers behalf.
This year we created a new team to offer these services on a bigger scale.
These range from taking over a single function like order management, through to outsourcing and transforming a customers entire network.
Internet of Things IoT W&V leads strategy development for IoT across BT.
IoT is a network of connected objects that exchange data to drive insight and action.
Were involved in major IoT projects including MKSmart in Milton Keynes and CityVerve in Manchester.
In December we added 25 locations, including the BT Tower, to the London Things Connected network, which local communities can use to transform their business or daily lives.
3 In October we announced a deal with New BT two partners to replace hundreds of Transforming our costs digital street our phone boxes with new digital units Our many ongoing cost transformation projects continued to deliver which will offer free ultrafast wi-fi, savings through: units free phone calls and free mobile reduction in supplier cost by renegotiating better terms and phone charging.
changing or consolidating suppliers: lowering our network cost by re-engineering existing platforms The first units will be deployed in and improving their utilisation: London in 2017.
We expect them consolidation of legacy and end-of-life platforms: and to generate substantial advertising better productivity, together with rationalisation of support revenue while benefiting the functions and overheads.
communities in which they operate.
This year we signed almost 2bn of orders.
Deals included: extending our MVNO deals with Virgin Media and ASDA: supplying an Avaya Cloud Solution for thousands of contact centre staff at a major utility provider: re-signing a number of large Ethernet contracts, securing those circuits for the future: new IoT solutions for major corporate clients: and taking over management of the Environment Agencys 1,350 vehicles.
78 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 79 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Ethernet base grew by 14% this year, well ahead of the market.
In last years report we set out our top priorities for this year.
Ethernet circuits are still replacing the shrinking number of Partial In the table below we report back on what weve achieved.
The number of broadband lines we provide over fibre grew by over 60,000: but our total broadband base fell Review of last years priorities by 25,000, mainly as a result of some customers own LLU network WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID expansion.
We said wed We launched the new W&V organisation Ethernet installed base integrate the various on 1 April 2016.
Year ended 31 March business units that now comprise W&V.
50,000 We said wed create The many services provided by our new, 40,000 revenue and cost digital street units page 78 draw on synergies as a a wide range of BT capabilities.
These 30,000 result of the new include payphone sites, BT Wi-fi, the fibre organisation.
networks that connect the payphone 20,000 to the internet and to the BT platform providing IP voice calls, BTs Next 10,000 Generation Text Service, and end-to-end service management.
And weve made 0 good progress in creating cost synergies 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in our Supply Chain operations.
This was up 9% on last year, We said wed We achieved our best RFT result for excluding minutes carried for EE.
IPX growth has slowed now that continue to many years.
For Ethernet specifically we more of the UKs major operators have completed their transition improve customer implemented a new and much improved from Time-Division Multiplexing TDM to IP voice networks.
And we designed a new Meanwhile the number of voice minutes that we carried over especially in Ethernet service that will run over 4G: traditional TDM networks fell.
well be trialling this with customers early in the new financial year.
Our SIP Trunks and Hosted Centrex users grew by 24% and 40% respectively.
We said wed further We expanded our Ethernet network to expand our Ethernet another 429 exchanges.
In BT Fleet the number of vehicles under management grew network.
We implemented round-the-clock working in some garages, recruited over a hundred extra technicians and appointed We said wed Our fibre broadband base rose by over 47 Modern Apprentices.
increase the number 60,000 this year.
of customers using We provided professional services to help upgrade and or install over fibre rather than 5,000 4G basestation sites for mobile network operators.
We said wed further Weve upgraded many of our internetstrengthen our facing systems with additional firewall 22bn defences against protection.
attempted cyber voice minutes carried by IPX.
Up 9% on 2016 We said wed We further reduced our own network continue our cost costs and overheads, as well as thirdtransformation party supplier costs.
we helped upgrade and or install over 5,000 4G transmission sites 78 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 79 16,900 24,700 31,400 38,500 43,800
