Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Group cash flow statement 2016 2015 Italian Italian business business As published adjustment Revised As published adjustment Revised For the year ended 31March m m m m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 5,179 28 5,151 4,796 8 4,788 Net cash flow from investing activities 5,145 28 5,117 4,064 8 4,056 Net cash flow from financing activities 42 42 1,028 1,028 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 76 76 296 296 Opening cash and cash equivalents 407 407 684 684 Effect of exchange rate changes 24 24 19 19 Closing cash and cash equivalents 459 459 407 407 2.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of our keyjudgements consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying our accounting policies.
We continually evaluate Basis of consolidation our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries, and include its share of the financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
results of associates and joint ventures using the equity method of Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and accounting.
The group recognises its direct rights to and its share associated disclosures with the Audit and Risk Committee.
The of jointly held assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are operations under the appropriate headings in the consolidated described in the applicable notes to the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements can be identified throughout the notes by the following symbol.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when We have the following critical accounting estimates and key the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its judgements: involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those R evenue from multiple element arrangements, see note 4 returns through its power over the investee.
Sub scriber acquisition and retention costs, see note 5 Curr ent and deferred income tax, see note 9 Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Goodwill, see no te 12 subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those interests at the U seful lives for property, plant and equipment and software, see date of the original business combination and non-controlling share note 13 of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are not Go vernment grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK material to the groups financial statements.
contracts, see note 13 Busines s combinations, see note 14 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year L ong-term customer contracts, see note 17 are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
P roviding for doubtful debts, see note 17 Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been P rovisions and contingent liabilities, see note 19 aligned with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group Pension obligations, see note 20 transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is recognised as a specific item.
176 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 177
