Notes to the company financial statements The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year 1.
BT Group plc accounting policies ended 31March 2017 contain financial instrument disclosures which comply with IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Consequently, Principal activity the company is exempt from the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7 in The principal activity of the company is to act as ultimate holding respect of its financial instruments.
Investments Accounting basis Investments are stated at cost and reviewed for impairment if there As used in these financial statements and associated notes, the term are indicators that the carrying value may not be recoverable.
An company refers to BT Group plc.
These separate financial statements impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying amount of the company are prepared in accordance with, and presented as can not be recovered either by selling the asset or by continuing to required by, the Companies Act 2006.
These financial statements hold the asset and benefiting the net present value of the future cash have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard flows of the investment.
FRS 101 incorporates, with limited amendments, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Taxation Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all temporary As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of differences which have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation date.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that itis to business combinations, share-based payments, non-current regarded as more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable assets held for sale, financial instruments, capital management, and profits from which the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, The deferred tax balances are not discounted.
presentation of a cash flow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.
The company Dividends intends to continue to take advantage of these exemptions in future Dividend distributions are recognised as a liability in the year in which years.
Further detail is provided below.
the dividends are approved by the companys shareholders.
Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid: final dividends when Where required, equivalent disclosures have been given in the authorised in general meetings by shareholders.
Dividend income is consolidated financial statements of BT Group plc.
Financial statements Share capital The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Repurchased shares of the under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of company are recorded in the balance sheet as part of Own shares and certain financial instruments at fair value.
presented as a deduction from shareholders equity at cost.
As permitted by section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, Cash the companys profit and loss account has not been presented.
Cash includes cash on hand and bank deposits repayable on demand.
Exemptions Share-based payments The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year The company does not incur a charge for share-based payments.
ended 31March 2017 contain a consolidated cash flow statement.
However, the issuance by the company of share options and awards to Consequently, as permitted by IAS 7 Statement of Cash flow, the employees of its subsidiaries represents additional capital contributions company has not presented its own cash flow statement.
An addition to the companys investment in subsidiaries is recorded with a corresponding increase in equity The BT Group plc consolidated financial statements for the year ended shareholders funds.
The additional capital contribution is determined 31March 2017 contain related party disclosures.
based on the fair value of options and awards at the date of grant and is recognised over the vesting period.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption in IAS 24, Related Party Disclosures not to disclose transactions with other members of the BT Group.
236 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 237
