THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Interests in joint operations EE Limited and Hutchison 3G UK Limited together the Companies each have a 50% share in the joint operation Mobile Broadband Network Limited MBNL.
MBNLs ongoing purpose is the operation and maintenance of mobile networks through a sharing arrangement.
This includes the efficient management of shared infrastructure and networks on behalf of the Companies, acquiring certain network elements for shared use, and coordinating the deployment of new infrastructure and networks on either a shared or a unilateral basis unilateral elements being network assets or services specific to one company only.
The group is committed to incurring 50% of costs in respect of restructuring the Shared Network, a similar proportion of the operating costs which varies in line with usage, and 100% of any unilateral elements.
Guarantees for the joint operation are given by Deutsche Telekom AG and Hutchison Whampoa Limited.
Deutsche Telekom, Orange and BT have agreed between them to manage any potential liability by arrangements between themselves.
The principal place of business of the joint operation is in the UK.
Associates Group interest in a Company name Activity allotted capital Country of incorporation Held via other group companies British Telecom Al-Saudia Limited Communications related services, systems 49% other New Acaria Commercial Complex, integration and products provider Al-Siteen Street, Malaz, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia BT Global Services North Gulf LLC Communications related services, systems 49% ordinary 1413, 14th Floor, Al Fardan Office integration and products provider Tower, Doha, 31316, Qatar BT Siam Communications Co. Ltd. Communications related services, systems 49% class B Athenee Tower, 23rd Floor, CEO integration and products provider Suite, Suite 38 & 40, 63 Wireless Road, Lumpini, Pathumwan, Bangkok, 10330, Thailand Collectively Limited In liquidation 20% Kings Orchard, 1 Queen Street, Bristol, BS2 0HQ, United Kingdom Digital Mobile Spectrum Limited Mitigation of interference to digital terrestrial 25% ordinary 83 Baker Street, London, W1U 6AG, television United Kingdom Ecquaria Limited Communications related services, systems 50% ordinary c o Offshore Incorporations Limited, integration and products provider P. O.
Box 957, Road Town, Tortola, VirginIslands, British ePLDTSunphilcox JV, Inc Dormant 20% ordinary 32F Philam Life Tower, 8767 Paseo fide Roxas, Makati City, Philippines I2 S. r. l Communications related services, systems 23% Via XII Ottobre 2N, 16121, Genova, integration and products provider Liguria, Italy Infonet Primalliance Shanghai Co. Ltd. Communications related services, systems 28% ordinary Room 601, No.
2 BLDG, 750 West integration and products provider Zhong Shan Rd.
Shanghai, 200051, P R China Infonet Primalliance Shenzhen Co. Ltd. Communications related services, systems 35% ordinary Room 1206, Tower A, United Plaza, integration and products provider 5022 Bin He Avenue, Fu Tian District, Shenzhen, P. R. China Internet Matters Limited Not for profit venture 25% Ambassador House 2nd Floor, St Michaels Street, London, W2 1QS, United Kingdom Mahindra BT Investment Company Investment holding company 43% ordinary c o IFS, IFS Court, TwentyEight, Mauritius Limited Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Midland Communications Distribution Limited Distribution and retailing of mobile telephones, 35% ordinary Unit 1, Colwick Quays Business Park, associated equipment and airtime connections Colwick, Nottingham, Nottinghamshire, NG4 2JY, United Kingdom QXN S. c. p. A.
Communications related services and products 25% ordinary Piazzale Luigi Sturzo, 23, 00144, provider Roma, Italy Real Time Content, Inc.
Provision of Cloud based video services 21% common Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, City of Wilmington, County of New Castle 19801, United States of America SunPhilcox JV, Inc Dormant 20% ordinary 32F Philam Life Tower, 8767 Paseo fide Roxas, Makati City, Philippines Youview TV Limited Not for profit venture Development of 14% voting 10 Lower Thames Street, Third Floor, software to provide TV platform services London, EC3R 6YT, United Kingdom a The proportion of voting rights held corresponds to the aggregate interest in percentage held by the holding company and subsidiary undertakings.
b No shares issued for a branch.
c On 1 April 2016 BT IT Services Limited transferred its business operations to British Telecommunications plc.
d All joint ventures are governed by a joint venture agreement or shareholder agreement.
MBNL is accounted for as a joint operation.
e Cegetel Holdings I B. V. and Gegetel Holdings II B. V. were incorporated in the Netherlands rather than the country of their registered address.
248 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 249
