Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Financial instruments and risk management We issue or hold financial instruments mainly to finance our operations: to finance corporate transactions such as dividends, share buybacks and acquisitions: for the temporary investment of short-term funds: and to manage currency and interest rate risks.
In addition, various financial instruments, for example trade receivables and payables arise directly from operations.
How do we manage financial risk?
Our activities expose us to a variety of financial risks: market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk and liquidityrisk.
Treasury operation We have a centralised treasury operation whose primary role is to manage liquidity and funding requirements as well as our exposure to associated financial and market risks, including credit risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk.
Treasury policy Treasury policy is set by the Board.
Group treasury activities are subject to a set of controls appropriate for the magnitude of borrowing, investments and group-wide exposures.
The Board has delegated authority to operate these policies to a series of panels responsible for the management of key treasury risks and operations.
Appointment to and removal from the key panels requires approval from two of the following: the chairman, the chief executive or the group finance director.
There has been no change in the nature of our risk profile between 31March 2017 and the date of approval of these financial statements.
How do we manage interest rate risk?
Management policy Interest rate risk arises primarily from our long-term borrowings.
Interest cash flow risk arises from borrowings issued at variable rates, partially offset by cash held at variable rates.
Fair value interest rate risk arises from borrowings issued at fixed rates.
Our policy, as set by the Board, is to ensure that at least 70% of ongoing net debt is at fixed rates.
Short-term interest rate management is delegated to the treasury operation while long-term interest rate management decisions require further approval by the group finance director, director of treasury and risk management or the group treasurer who each have been delegated such authority from the Board.
Hedging strategy In order to manage our interest rate profile, we have entered into cross-currency and interest rate swap agreements to vary the amounts and periods for which interest rates on borrowings are fixed.
The duration of the swap agreements matches the duration of the debt instruments.
The majority of the groups long-term borrowings are subject to fixed Sterling interest rates after applying the impact of these hedging instruments.
How do we manage foreign exchange risk?
Management policy Foreign currency hedging activities protect the group from the risk that changes in exchange rates will adversely affect future net cash flows.
The Boards policy for foreign exchange risk management defines the types of transactions typically covered, including significant operational, funding and currency interest exposures, and the period over which cover should extend for each type of transaction.
The Board has delegated short-term foreign exchange management to the treasury operation and long-term foreign exchange management decisions require further approval from the group finance director, director of treasury and risk management or the group treasurer.
Hedging strategy A significant proportion of our external revenue and costs arise within the UK and are denominated in Sterling.
Our non-UK operations generally trade and are funded in their functional currency which limits their exposure to foreign exchange volatility.
We enter into forward currency contracts to hedge foreign currency, capital purchases, purchase and sale commitments, interest expense and foreign currency investments.
The commitments hedged are principally denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Asia Pacific region currencies.
As a result, our exposure to foreign currency arises mainly on non-UK subsidiary investments and on residual currency trading flows.
We use cross-currency swaps to swap foreign currency borrowings into Sterling.
222 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 223
