Glossary of terms 2G: the second generation of mobile telephony systems.
It Dark fibre: an unlit fibre-only connection provided with uses digital transmission to support voice, low-speed data no associated electronics.
communications and short messaging services.
3G: the third generation of mobile systems.
It provides high-speed data transmission and supports multimedia DSL: digital subscriber line a broadband service where applications like video, audio and internet access as well as existing wires between the local telephone exchange and conventional voice services.
a customers telephone sockets are transformed into a high-speed digital line.
4G: the fourth generation of mobile systems.
It is designed to provide faster data download and upload speeds on mobile networks.
EAD: Ethernet access direct a point-to-point access 5G: the coming fifth generation wireless broadband product in the Openreach Ethernet portfolio offering technology which will provide better speeds and coverage high bandwidth connectivity, linking end-user sites, than the current 4G.
communications provider networks and BT exchanges.
Ethernet: high-capacity, high-speed digital connections available throughout the UK.
They tend to be used by ADSL: asymmetric digital subscriber line a digital businesses and offices for which a domestic connection technology that allows the use of a standard telephone line is inadequate when large numbers of devices have to be to provide high-speed data communications.
ARPU: average revenue per user.
BDUK: Broadband Delivery UK the UK Government body Flexible Co-mingling: allows CPs to place their equipment charged with helping to oversee the use of public money in our exchanges.
for rolling out fibre broadband in harder-to-reach parts of the country.
FTTC: fibre-to-the-cabinet a variant of GEA which uses fibre to provide high connection speeds from the exchange BTPS: BT Pension Scheme the defined benefit pension to a street cabinet near to a customer premises, and a scheme which was closed to new members on 31 March copper line for the final connection to the premises.
FTTP:  a variant of GEA which uses BTRSS: BT Retirement Saving Scheme the scheme set up fibre to provide high connection speeds for the whole route on 1 April 2009 as a successor to the BT Retirement Plan.
from the exchange to the customer.
It is a contract-based, defined contribution arrangement.
G. Fast: an innovative technology that uses higher CI: continuous improvement a complementary frequencies than FTTC to provide faster broadband speeds bottom-up approach, empowering our people to make over copper.
small but significant changes to improve customer service and employee engagement while reducing the cost of GEA: generic Ethernet access Openreachs wholesale fibre failure.
Cloud of Clouds: Global Services portfolio strategy which brings together its six core product families and a network of partners to support the delivery of global network and IT IoT: internet of things the interconnection via the infrastructure services.
internet of computing devices embedded in everyday objects, enabling them to send and receive data.
CP: communications provider a provider of communications services telephony, broadband, video on IP: internet protocol a packet-based protocol for demand and other services.
delivering data including voice and video across networks.
IPTV: internet protocol television the combination of broadcast content with broadband content, delivering both through the television.
IPX: IP exchange a telecommunications interconnection model for the exchange of IP-based traffic between customers of separate mobile and fixed operators.
280 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 281 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Ladder pricing: Ladder pricing links the amounts that BT PCP: primary connection point.
charges mobile operators for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 numbers terminating on our network to the PIA: passive infrastructure access this occurs when one retail price charged by mobile operators to their customers.
company accesses ducts owned by another and installs its own fibre optic or other cables.
LLU: local loop unbundling the process by which CPs can rent the copper lines between BTs exchanges and POLOs: payments to other licensed operators typically customer premises from Openreach to provide voice and refers to payments by one CP to another CP when broadband services using their own equipment.
terminating voice traffic on their network to carry the call to the customer receiving the call.
PoPs: points of presence this refers to a location in a city M2M: machine-to-machine M2M communications where we have the ability to connect customers to one of refers to connecting electronic devices to one another.
This can streamline processes and enable tasks to be automated.
PPC: partial private circuit a generic term used to describe a category of private circuits that terminate at a Managed Ethernet Access Service: a product that point of connection between two operators networks.
uses pseudo-wire technology to carry Ethernet traffic between the mobile operators cell and core sites in a single converged packet network.
RFT: Right First Time the internal measure of whether we MBNL: Mobile Broadband Network Limited is a joint are keeping our promises to our customers and meeting or venture arrangement between EE Limited and Hutchison exceeding their expectations.
3G UK Limited with each company owning a 50% share.
MiiS: mobile infill infrastructure solution lets CPs install SDN: software defined networking one of the new their radio equipment in special cabinets linked to antennas generation of networking technologies that are giving us a on telephone poles and use their spectrum to improve new way to build and manage corporate networks that are mobile coverage.
MPF: metallic path facility a circuit comprising a pair of SEP: superfast extension programme.
twisted metal wires between an end-users premises and a main distribution frame.
SIP: session initiation protocol a method for creating, modifying and terminating sessions with one or more MPLS: multi-protocol label switching supports the rapid participants.
These include internet telephone calls, transmission of data across network routers, enabling multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences.
modern networks to achieve high quality of service.
SIP Trunk: this replaces the need for traditional analogue, MSL: minimum service level set by Ofcom in relation to T1-based Public Switched Telephone Network connections the quality of service that Openreach offers.
with termination instead provided over a companys public or private internet connection through a SIP provider.
MVNO: mobile virtual network operator an arrangement where a retailer sells mobile services under SMPF: shared metallic path facility access to the its own brand but uses a mobile network owned by non-voiceband frequencies of the metallic path facility.
another operator to do so.
SVoD: subscription video on demand.
Ofcom: the independent regulator and competition authority in the UK communications industries, with responsibilities across television, radio, telecommunications and wireless communications services.
Undertakings: legally-binding commitments BT made to Ofcom, designed to bring greater transparency and certainty to the regulation of the telecommunications industry in the UK.
They led to the formation of Openreach.
280 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 281 Glossary of terms continued VDSL: very high speed DSL a high-speed variant of DSL technology.
It provides a high headline speed by reducing the length of the access line copper by connecting to fibre at the cabinet.
VoIP: voice over internet protocol a method of transporting speech over the internet.
VPN: virtual private network a secure way to create an apparent dedicated network between nodes over a network infrastructure, which is in reality shared with other services.
WAN: wide area network a computer network that exists over a relatively large geographical area that connects two or more smaller networks.
This enables computers and users in one location to communicate with computers and users in other locations.
WLR: wholesale line rental a product supplied by Openreach which is used by other CPs to offer telephony services using their own brand, pricing structure and billing, but using BTs network.
282 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Notes Notes Notes Notes Notes Notes In this document, references to BT Group, BT, the group, thecompany, we or our are to BT Group plc which includes the activities of British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries and lines of business, internal service unit, or any of them as the context mayrequire.
A reference to a year expressed as 2016 17 is to the financial year ended 31 March 2017 and a reference to a year expressed as 2017 is to the calendar year.
This convention applies similarly to any reference to a previous or subsequent year.
References to this year, the year and the current year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
References to last year and prior year are to the financial year ended 31 March 2016.
BT Group plc Registered ofce: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
4190816 Produced by BT Group PHME 80256 Printed in England by Pindar Scarborough Ltd Design by emperor.
works Typeset by Donnelley Financial Solutions Printed on Amadeus 50 Silk which is made from 50% fide-inked, post-consumer waste and 50% virgin bre www.
