THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Stock exchange listings The principal listing of BT Groups ordinary shares is on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading on the London Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
A. American Depositary Shares ADSs, have been issued by JPMorgan Chase & Co, as Depositary for the American Depositary Receipts ADRs evidencing the ADSs, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
Trading on the New York Stock Exchange is under the symbol BT.
In December 2015 BT changed the ratio of its NYSE-listed American Depositary Receipt ADR programme from the previous ratio of one ADR per ten ordinary shares to one ADR per five ordinary shares.
These changes to the ADR ratio have brought the ADR price broadly in line with the market average.
To implement the change, ADR holders on the record at the close of business on 30 November 2015 received two ADRs for every one ADR held.
There was no change to the underlying ordinary shares.
The prices are the highest and lowest closing middle market prices for BT ordinary shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest closing sales prices of ADSs, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between Sterling and the US Dollar affect the US Dollar equivalent of the Sterling price of the companys ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange and, as a result, are likely to affect the market price of the ADSs on the New York Stock Exchange.
Background BT Group plc is a public limited company registered in England and Wales and listed on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
It was incorporated in England and Wales on 30 March 2001 as Newgate Telecommunications Limited with the registered number 4190816.
Its registered office address is 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ.
The company changed its name to BT Group plc on 11 September 2001.
Following the demerger of mmO2 from BT in November 2001, the continuing activities of BT were transferred to BT Group plc.
British Telecommunications plc is a wholly-owned subsidiary of BT Group plc and encompasses virtually all the businesses and assets of the group.
The successor to the statutory corporation British Telecommunications, it was incorporated in England and Wales as a public limited company, wholly owned by the Government, as a result of the Telecommunications Act 1984.
Between November 1984 and July 1993, the Government sold all of its shareholding in British Telecommunications plc in three public offerings.
260 260 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 261 261
