Independent auditors report Report on the group financial statements had resulted in the overstatement of earnings in the Italian business United Kingdom over a number of years.
We considered the impact of these matters on the group audit risk assessment, the scope of the audit in Our opinion determining which reporting units required audit work and the In our opinion, BT Group plcs group financial statements the extent of the work to be performed in Italy specifically and in other financial statements : reporting units and the audit response to the issues identified.
giv e a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then Overview ended: Overall group materiality: 130 million 2015 16: 130 million ha five been properly prepared in accordance with International which represents approximately 4% of profit before tax.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the F ull scope audits were performed in three reporting units the European Union: and main BT UK trading company British Telecommunications plc, EE ha five been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the and the principal reporting unit in Italy.
These units accounted for Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
over 80% of the groups revenue and groups profit before tax.
Specific audit pr ocedures were performed in four reporting Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB units Spain, Germany, Ireland and the US.
These units As explained in note 1 to the financial statements, the group, in accounted for 7% of the groups revenue.
addition to applying IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Specific audit pr ocedures over certain operating costs were has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting performed in one additional reporting unit in the UK.
Our assessment of the risk of material misstatement also informed In our opinion, the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued our views on the areas of particular focus for our work which are by the IASB.
listed below: As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired What we have audited intangible assets in EE: The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Form As sessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services: 20-F 2017 the Annual Report, comprise: Major c ontracts in Global Services, Business & Public Sector and the gr oup balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: EE: the gr oup income statement for the year then ended: A ccuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems: the gr oup statement of comprehensive income for the year then P ension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the ended: BT Pension Scheme: the gr oup cash flow statement for the year then ended: Litiga tion and regulatory provisions including historical use of the gr oup statement of changes in equity for the year then deemed consent : ended: and R ecognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and the no tes to the financial statements, which include a summary of deferred tax assets: significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
C ost capitalisation and asset lives for property, plant and equipment and software intangible assets: and Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia.
Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are The scope of our audit and our areas of focus identified as audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing European Union, and applicable law.
the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective Our audit approach judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting Context estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future We took into consideration the ongoing integration of EE into the events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits we also wider group and that 2016 17 was the first full year of EEs results addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, being consolidated into the groups financial statements.
EE was including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the also included in the groups internal control over financial reporting directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to framework for the first time.
In addition, in October 2016, the group announced that following The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on allegations of inappropriate management behaviour in BTs Italian our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are business, it had conducted an initial internal investigation.
This initial identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out investigation included a review of accounting practices during which how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to group management had identified certain historical accounting provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any errors and reassessed certain areas of management judgement.
In comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read January 2017, the group announced that its investigations had in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our revealed that the extent and complexity of inappropriate behaviour audit.
in the Italian business was greater than previously identified and 154 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquired We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness intangible assets in EE of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of The group acquired EE on 29 January 2016 and finalised the purchase goodwill and other intangible assets.
We determined that the price accounting in the current year.
The goodwill acquired was 6.5bn controls were designed and operating effectively.
and other intangible assets with finite useful lives of 5.9bn were also recognised on acquisition.
We tested the allocation of EE goodwill to other CGUs.
In testing this we assessed whether managements approach was in As a result of the group reorganisation effective 1 April 2016, the compliance with IAS 36 and tested the calculation.
group allocated goodwill of 2.1bn relating to the acquisition of EE to other cash generating units CGUs on a relative fair value basis in We assessed and challenged management on the assumptions accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
reflected in the future cash flows of the businesses transferred between CGUs as a result of the reorganisation.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is generally considered to be at higher risk of impairment in the first year following In testing the impairment assessment we agreed the cash flow any acquisition.
forecasts used in the impairment model to Board approved forecasts.
We considered managements expectations in respect Management prepared an impairment assessment, for both the of developments in the business and corroborated certain goodwill and the intangible assets acquired, that was based on a information with third party sources where possible and tested value in use calculation.
Management concluded that there was no internal data.
We considered planned operational improvements impairment.
The disclosures in respect of this are included in note 12. and the reasonableness of these in generating future cash flows and whether these were appropriately reflected in the cash flow forecasts.
We compared actual historical cash flows with previous forecasts.
We used internal specialists to independently calculate an appropriate pre-tax discount rate by making reference to market data, and to verify the long-term growth rate used by management to observable market data.
For the other intangible assets, we considered managements assessment of whether there is any indication of an impairment trigger, considering both internal and external sources of information.
We assessed the sufficiency of the sensitivity analyses performed by management, focusing on what we consider to be reasonably possible changes in key assumptions.
Overall we considered the assumptions adopted by management to be within a reasonable range.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure in note 12.
As a result of our work, we determined that the conclusions reached by management in the reallocation of goodwill between CGUs, and that there was no impairment of goodwill or the acquired finite-lived intangible assets, were supportable.
Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness As at 31 March 2017, goodwill relating to the Global Services of managements controls in assessing the carrying value of CGU amounted to 571m out of a total goodwill balance of goodwill.
We determined that the controls were designed and 8bn.
Management prepared an impairment assessment for the operating effectively.
Global Services CGU, as required under accounting standards, We focused on the key assumptions included in the impairment which was based on a value in use calculation.
Similar assessments assessment, being the cash flows for each year of managements were performed by the directors for the other goodwill balances.
detailed forecast, the long-term growth rate and the discount Management concluded that there was no impairment of goodwill in rate.
any CGU, including Global Services.
We focused on the impairment assessment for Global Services as To determine the appropriateness of the future operating cash the headroom of value in use over carrying value was limited and flows, we: the assessment is sensitive to changes in assumptions in particular A greed the cash flow forecasts used in the impairment model the long term growth rate, the discount rate and the assumptions to Board approved forecasts: underlying future operating cash flows.
C onsidered managements expectations in respect of developments in the business and corroborated certain information with third party sources.
We considered planned operational improvements and the reasonableness of these in generating future cash flows and whether these were appropriately reflected in the cash flow forecasts: and Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 155 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Assessment of the carrying value of goodwill in Global Services Compared actual historical cash flow results for the continued Global Services CGU with previous forecasts to determine forecasting accuracy.
We used internal specialists to independently verify the long term growth rate to market data and to independently calculate the pre-tax discount rate used by management by reference to market data.
We assessed the sufficiency of the sensitivity analysis performed by management and performed further sensitivity analyses, focusing on what we considered to be reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions.
As noted in note 12, the conclusion reached by management that no impairment has arisen is highly sensitive to relatively small changes in the assumptions.
Overall we considered the assumptions made to be within a reasonable range.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosures in note 12.
Major contracts in Global Services, Business & Public Sector We tested a sample of major contracts, focusing our work on and EE those which were material by size, and then those which we We focused on these contracts as they involve significant estimates regarded as higher risk because of the nature of the contract, its in respect of: stage of delivery or the related assets on the balance sheet.
In the c ompleteness and adequacy of provisions against contracts performing this sample testing we assessed the appropriateness projected to be loss making: and of the assumptions and judgements underpinning the accounting the r ecoverability of contract-specific assets, including deferred for these major contracts as follows: costs and property, plant and equipment.
W e evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls in respect of the accounting for major Consideration of the completeness and adequacy of provisions contracts.
against contracts and the recoverability of contract-specific assets W e obtained and read the relevant sections of the contracts is dependent on the quantum and timing of recognition of contract agreed between BT and the customer, tested a sample of profits and the assumptions underpinning the lifetime profitability revenue transactions by tracing them to supporting evidence forecasts for the contracts.
of delivery and acceptance and assessed the revenue recognised in the period by comparing it with the contractual The group has deferred costs in respect of major contracts totalling terms and actual pattern of delivery of services.
W e compared the forecast results of certain contracts in our scope with the actual results to assess the performance of the contract and the historical accuracy of forecasting.
We assessed the recoverability of contract-specific assets dedicated to the sampled contracts by examining future forecast profitability of the related contract and the associated deferred revenue.
We assessed the reasonableness of lifetime profitability forecasts by analysing historical contract performance relative to overall contractual commitments.
We assessed managements assumptions on future contract costs, including any forecast savings, by assessing the actions required to achieve these forecasts.
We assessed whether the provisions for loss making contracts are adequate.
Based on our work we did not identify any material misstatement in the related financial statement amounts and found them to be recorded in line with the groups accounting policies as set out in note 3.
156 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Accuracy of revenue due to complex billing systems We evaluated the relevant IT systems and the design of controls, The accuracy of revenue amounts recorded is an inherent industry and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the: risk.
This is because telecom billing systems are complex and process cap ture and recording of revenue transactions: large volumes of data with a combination of different products sold authorisa tion of rate changes and the input of this information and price changes in the year, through a number of different systems.
into the billing systems: and calculation of amounts billed to customers.
We determined that the operation of the controls provided us with evidence over the accuracy of revenue recorded.
We also tested a sample of customer bills and checked these to supporting evidence e. g. customer orders, contracts or subsequent customer communications from the group confirming changes to prices and cash received.
Our testing included customer bills for consumers, corporate customers and wholesale customers.
Based on our work, we noted no significant issues in the accuracy of revenue recorded in the year.
Pension scheme obligations and unquoted investments in the We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness BT Pension Scheme of controls in respect of the determination of the BTPS net We focused on the BT Pension Scheme BTPS because the deficit.
We determined that the operation of the controls valuation of the BTPS obligations 58.6bn at 31 March 2017 provided us with evidence over the valuation of the obligations and unquoted assets, comprised of unquoted equity investments and the assets and thereby also the accuracy of the amounts and property assets, 21.8bn at 31 March 2017 require the recorded in Other Comprehensive Income.
use of estimates and significant judgement, and a small change in the key assumptions can have a material impact on the financial We used our actuarial experts to assess the reasonableness statements.
of the actuarial assumptions used in valuing the BTPS obligations.
This included comparing the assumptions with our internally developed benchmarks.
All the assumptions used by management fell within acceptable ranges.
We tested the existence of the unquoted investments and the valuation of these investments on a sample basis.
Specifically: F or property assets, we: obtained and read valuation reports prepared by third party specialist valuers for management.
We assessed the methods and assumptions used by the valuers and the competence and objectivity of those third party experts: t ested the carrying amount of other property assets by validating these to audited financial statements: F or direct investments held by the BTPS, the valuations of the investments are derived from discounted cash flow models.
These models use assumptions including discount rates and cash flow forecasts.
We assessed the assumptions used in the valuations by checking that the assumptions used were consistent with our internally developed range of discount rates with the support of internal specialists, by comparing the cash flows with historical results and considering the impact of other external information.
We tested the accuracy of the calculations and assessed whether the assumptions used were in line with other market participants and reflected the particular status of the investment shareholding: and F or other unquoted investments we tested internal controls, obtained confirmations of the valuation from the custodians and the investment managers, and tested the carrying amount by validating these to audited financial statements.
We considered the estimates and judgements used by management for the obligations and the unquoted investments to be within an acceptable range.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure in note 20.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 157 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Litigation and regulatory provisions including historical use of We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness deemed consent of controls in respect of the determination of the provisions.
We The group has regulatory provisions of 479m relating to regulatory determined that the operation of the controls provided us with risks, including an additional 300m provision arising in the current evidence over the completeness, accuracy and valuation of the year from the findings of the Ofcom investigation related to the provisions.
historical use of deemed consent in the delivery of Ethernet services.
For regulatory provisions, we read correspondence and Included within the groups other provisions of 246m are provisions pronouncements from the regulator Ofcom and the CAT and for litigation risks.
correspondence from other communication providers CPs.
These provisions are based on judgements and accounting estimates We evaluated the regulatory risk exposures identified by made by management in determining the likelihood and magnitude management against observable data.
We also assessed of claims, and consequently we focused on the judgements and managements regulatory risk likelihood assessment by estimates involved.
comparing its assessment against historical disputes, open claims from CPs, current pronouncements issued by Ofcom and the CAT In particular, the current telecommunications regulatory environment and by considering the nature of the identified regulatory risk has seen an increased frequency and magnitude of matters brought exposure.
to Ofcom and the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT in the UK.
In relation to the historical use of deemed consent in the delivery of Ethernet services, we assessed the provision calculation by comparison to the findings included in the correspondence with Ofcom, examining the methodology applied, testing inputs to source data and testing assumptions by comparison with supporting evidence.
We engaged our statistical experts to review the findings of a third party expert appointed by management to determine an appropriate approach to sampling deemed consent orders.
For litigation provisions, we read the summary of litigation matters provided by management and held discussions with the groups general counsel and head of litigation.
We held discussions with each of the groups external legal advisors with respect to the matters included in the summary.
Where appropriate we examined correspondence connected with the cases.
For regulatory and litigation provisions, we tested the calculation of the provisions, assessed the assumptions against third party data, where available, and assessed the estimates against historical trends.
We considered managements judgements on the level of provisioning to be appropriate.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosures in note 19.
Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness deferred tax assets of controls in place for the determination and recognition of The group operates in a complex multinational tax environment deferred tax balances and uncertain tax positions.
We determined and is subject to a range of tax risks.
There is inherent judgement these controls provided us with evidence for the purposes of our involved in determining provisions for uncertain tax positions.
The group has material unrecognised deferred tax assets in respect We tested the underlying data for the key deferred tax and of brought forward trading losses and other temporary differences, uncertain tax provision calculations.
The recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgement regarding the likelihood of the realisation of these assets, In conjunction with our tax specialists, we evaluated in particular whether there will be taxable profits in future periods managements rationale in relation to the level of tax provisions.
that support recognition of these assets.
We considered the status of recent and current tax audits and enquiries, the results of previous claims and changes to the tax The group has deferred tax assets of 172m relating to EE.
The environments in the markets in which the group operates.
We recognition of these assets requires estimates to be applied in utilised our specialist tax knowledge and experience of similar relation to the associated assessed future profitability of this legal situations elsewhere to examine tax planning arrangements entity, including the potential impact of the ongoing integration of and the global transfer pricing model and assess managements the EE operations into the wider group.
We found that the level of provisioning overall was appropriate.
158 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Recognition and measurement of potential tax exposures and In assessing managements conclusions with respect to the deferred tax assets continued recognition of deferred tax assets, we evaluated the amount of tax losses recognised in light of future projected profitability of the relevant subsidiary companies, by assessing the forecasts against past results and our expectations of future trading performance.
In assessing the EE deferred tax asset we tested controls over the calculation of the asset and managements assessment of its recoverability, using our tax specialists and our knowledge of the group as a whole.
We considered managements judgement on the recoverability of the EE deferred tax asset to be appropriate.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosure in note 9.
Cost capitalisation and asset lives for property, plant and We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness equipment and software intangible assets of controls around the property, plant and equipment cycle and Capitalisation of costs and the useful lives assigned to assets are areas software intangible assets cycle, including the controls over of judgement by management.
whether engineering labour activity is capital or operating in nature.
We determined that the operation of the controls These manifest themselves in the following two audit risks: provided us with audit evidence in respect of the capitalisation the risk tha t amounts being capitalised do not meet capitalisation of costs.
criteria, including the recognition and deferral of related grants: and We tested costs capitalised in the year and considered the ageing the risk tha t the useful economic lives assigned to assets are of assets in the course of construction.
We assessed the nature inappropriate.
of costs incurred in capital projects through testing of amounts recorded and considering whether the expenditure met the We focused on the recognition of capital grants associated with criteria for capitalisation under accounting standards.
We found the Broadband Delivery UK BDUK and Superfast Extension SEP no material misstatements from our testing.
programmes, as the grants may be subject to re-investment or repayment depending on the level of take-up requiring calculation We tested the controls over the annual review of asset lives.
In of grant income to be deferred.
addition, we tested whether managements views on asset lives are supportable by considering our knowledge of the business and results of the wider telecoms industry.
We also tested whether the prior year asset life review has been appropriately applied and assessed the judgements made by management in the current year review.
We found that the asset lives were consistent with those commonly used in the industry and appropriately reflected technological developments.
We tested the controls in place over the recording and reconciliation of grant income deferral.
We assessed the key assumption of the forecast level of end user take-up applied by the management to calculate the deferral.
In addition, we tested other key inputs to supporting evidence and the accuracy of the calculation.
We considered the level of grant recognition to be appropriate.
Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia We incorporated our forensic specialists into our audit team to As further explained on page 6 of the Annual Report, on assess the structure, scope, approach and independence of the 27 October 2016 BT announced that an initial internal investigation commenced by the Board, and to satisfy ourselves investigation of accounting practices in its Italian business had that it considered the risk that the issues identified may be identified certain historical accounting errors, and areas of more pervasive across the BT Group, and that the conclusions management judgement that merited reassessment.
At that time, reached were appropriate.
We also used our forensics specialists management announced the write down of items on the Italian to support us in considering the associated audit risks arising balance sheet by 145 million.
from each of the matters identified by the investigation and determining the impact on our audit risk assessment and developing an appropriate audit response.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 159 Independent auditors report continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia continued We considered the scope of the audit and, in particular, assessed In January 2017, management reported that the investigation which reporting units required additional audit procedures to be into the financial position of the Italian business was substantially performed, including in Italy specifically.
We also instructed our complete and further adjustments had been identified.
The total component teams to perform additional procedures to respond impact amounted to 268m in relation to prior year errors, and to the risk of fraud, including testing additional manual journals 245m for changes in accounting estimates.
The prior year errors throughout the year.
were reflected in the relevant comparative periods and the impact isset out in note 1.
The specific items are described in note 8.
We considered the impact of the investigation on managements internal control environment both in Italy and in other locations.
Further details of the investigation commissioned by the Board, Where deficiencies in controls were identified, we tested which reported to the chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee compensating controls where these existed and performed and the BT Group chairman, are set out on pages 112 and 113. additional substantive testing where there were no appropriate Management's response to the findings of the investigation, compensating controls.
including the associated control deficiencies that were identified, isset out on pages 148 and 149.
Taking the above into account, consistent with our original audit plan, we instructed our component audit team in Italy Our audit focussed on evaluating the impact on the financial to perform a full scope audit on the reporting units complete statements and addressing the risk of similar issues in other financial information, and evaluated the component teams work.
In addition, we performed a significant level of oversight, with senior members of the group engagement team spending time in Italy during the planning, execution and completion phases of the component audit.
As part of these oversight activities, we were involved in the component audit teams risk assessment to identify significant risks of material misstatement, evaluated the appropriateness of the audit procedures to be performed by the component team to respond to the identified significant risks, reviewed certain working papers of the component audit team to evaluate the work performed and held regular meetings with our component audit team and with local, Global Services and Group management to consider the component teams audit work and findings.
Our component team in Italy also specifically tested the prior year revisions and the specific items recorded.
As a result of our work, we satisfied ourselves that the adjustments posted by management following the investigation are materially appropriate.
We also considered the appropriateness of the disclosures made by management in the financial statements, in particular in note 1 and determined that they provided an adequate explanation of the issue and the results of managements investigation.
How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the group, the accounting processes and controls including those performed at the groups shared service centres, and the industry.
The group comprises a number of reporting units, in both the UK and overseas, which relate to the geographic markets in which the group operates.
The groups accounting process is structured around a finance function in each of the reporting units who are supported by one of the groups shared service centres.
The reporting units are responsible for their own accounting records and controls and report to the head office finance team in London through an integrated consolidation system.
In establishing the overall approach to the group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at reporting units by us, as the group engagement team, or component auditors from other PwC network firms operating under our instruction including PwC UK for EE.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Forthree reporting units the main BT UK trading company British Telecommunications plc, EE and Italy an audit of the complete financial information was performed.
These accounted for over 80% of the groups revenue and the groups profit before tax.
Infour reporting units Germany, Ireland, Spain and the US specific audit procedures on revenue and related balance sheet accounts wereperformed.
These accounted for 7% of the Groups revenue.
In one reporting unit based in the UK specific audit procedures on certain operating costs and related balance sheet accounts were performed.
This, together with additional procedures performed on centralised functions and at the group level on the consolidation and other areas of significant judgement including tax and goodwill, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
160 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The group engagement team performed the audit of British Telecommunications plc.
The group engagement team also performed the work on the US reporting unit and the UK reporting unit.
For EE, the group engagement team met regularly with the audit team, who are UK based, and attended meetings with management, including the year end clearance meeting.
As explained in the area of focus Irregular accounting practices in BT Italia above, the group engagement team was heavily involved in oversight of the work performed on the Italy reporting unit.
Senior members of the group engagement team also visited Spain, Germany and Ireland and communicated with our teams on a regular basis.
We also reviewed certain component auditor working papers and participated in the audit clearance meetings for Spain, Germany and Ireland by conference call.
In addition, the group engagement team visited the shared service centres relevant to those reporting units in scope for the group audit.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 130m 2015 16: 130m How we determined it Approximately 4% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark We consider that profit before tax is the primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of applied the group.
In our view, using profit before tax ensures that where certain specific items are recurring in nature our audit work is performed to the lower materiality level that results from using a reported profit before tax measure rather than an adjusted profit before tax measure.
In 2015 16 and previous years we used profit before tax as the benchmark, but used an average of profit before tax for the then current year and the previous 3 years.
The acquisition of EE significantly changed the composition of the group and in light of this we changed the period from the historical approach of using a four year average of profit before tax to now using only the current years profit before tax.
Component materiality For each reporting unit in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than overall Group materiality.
For British Telecommunications plc and EE, the materiality allocated to these units was 110m and 100m respectively.
For all other reporting units the materiality allocated was between 10m and 20m.
We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 10m 2015 16: 5m as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the directors statement, set out on pages 146 and 147, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 161 Independent auditors report continued Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions to report.
ma terially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or appar ently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or o therwise misleading.
the sta tement given by the directors on page 146, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of We have no exceptions to report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
the sec tion of the Annual Report on pages 112 to 114, as required by provision C. 3.8 We have no exceptions to report.
of the Code, describing the work of the Audit & Risk Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit & Risk Committee.
The directors assessment of the prospects of the group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: the dir ectors confirmation on page 146 of the Annual Report, in accordance with We have nothing material to add or to provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the draw attention to.
principal risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclo sures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are We have nothing material to add or to being managed or mitigated.
the dir ectors explanation on page 55 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision We have nothing material to add or to C. 2.2 of the Code, as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over what draw attention to.
period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Lisg Rules we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
162 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Responsibilities for the financial statements directors judgements against available evidence, forming our and the audit own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and those of the directors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We test and examine information, using sampling and other Responsibilities set out on page 146, the directors are responsible auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide for the preparation of the financial statements and for being a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume respect to the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors, we responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where applicable legal requirements.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Other matter What an audit of financial statements involves We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that assurance that the financial statements are free from material is described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor whe ther the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups for and on behalf of  LLP circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors disclosed: London the r easonableness of significant accounting estimates made by 11 May 2017 the directors: and the o verall presentation of the financial statements.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 163
