Independent auditors report to the members ofBTGroup plc Adequacy of accounting records and information and explanations United Kingdom opinion received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Independent auditors report to the members of BT Group plc we ha five not received all the information and explanations we Report on the parent company financial statements require for our audit: or Our opinion adequa te accounting records have not been kept by the parent In our opinion, BT Group plcs parent company financial statements company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been the financial statements : received from branches not visited by us: or giv e a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys the financial sta tements and the part of the Directors affairs as at 31 March 2017: Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom accounting records and returns.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Directors remuneration What we have audited Directors remuneration report - Companies Act 2006 opinion The financial statements, included within the Annual Report & Form In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report 20-F 2017 the Annual Report, comprise: to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the the BT Group plc company balance sheet as at 31 March 2017: Companies Act 2006. the B T Group plc company statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and Other Companies Act 2006 reporting the no tes to the financial statements, which include a summary of Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
We have no exceptions to report The financial reporting framework that has been applied in arising from this responsibility.
the preparation of the financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Framework, and applicable law United Kingdom Generally Our responsibilities and those of the directors Accepted Accounting Practice.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 146, the directors are responsible Other required reporting for the preparation of the financial statements and for being Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & audit: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the inf ormation given in the Strategic Report and the Report Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of the Directors for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only statements: and for the parent companys members as a body in accordance with the S trategic Report and the Report of the Directors have been Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where parent company and its environment obtained in the course of the expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Report of the What an audit of financial statements involves Directors.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures ISAs UK & Ireland reporting in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: information in the Annual Report is: whe ther the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent ma terially inconsistent with the information in the audited companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and financial statements: or adequately disclosed: appar ently materially incorrect based on, or materially the r easonableness of significant accounting estimates made by inconsistent with, our knowledge of the parent company acquired the directors: and in the course of performing our audit: or the o verall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
232 232 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 233 233 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the group financial statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 11 May 2017 232 232 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 Annual R Annual Repor eport 2017 t 2017 B BT Gr T Group plc oup plc 233 233
