THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Lines of business Technology, Service and Operations TSO TSO is our internal technology unit.
Its responsible for creating and operating our global networks, platforms and IT systems.
We work closely with each of our lines of business, creating new products for them and making sure that services evolve to reflect 2 the changing needs of their customers.
And we make sure that BTs Investing for growth networks and systems are reliable and resilient.
This year weve completed the rollout of our new Ethernet switches.
Theyre now installed in 585 exchanges so even more businesses can We manage BTs research and development and our worldwide access BT Ethernet services.
Were also embracing new technologies such as programmable There are more than 13,000 people in TSO, and this year we networks.
These deliver services faster and provide real-time visibility recruited over 220 graduates and apprentices.
TSO people work on and control of a customers network.
With the launch of Dynamic a wide variety of rapidly-changing technologies so weve developed Network Services were offering these capabilities to Global Services comprehensive training and career pathways to attract and retain the customers.
For example, we now offer Degree Apprenticeships that allow apprentices to achieve a full bachelors degree while training on Weve also completed the first voice calls on our single fixed and mobile the job.
infrastructure which enables us to offer new converged services such as high-definition voice calling.
Products and services 3 We manage the infrastructure for BTs products, Transforming our costs services and internal systems, such as our IT Following the acquisition of EE weve taken the opportunity to systems and voice, data and TV networks.
review and rationalise the number of applications we use.
BT manages networks for many of the worlds top companies.
Were also migrating applications onto our Enterprise Cloud, making Our people design and deliver the solutions that make this happen.
them easier to manage and lowering their running cost.
Performance in the year strategic Performance in the year operating Were always looking for new ways to maintain and refresh the technology in our networks and 1 service platforms.
Delivering great customer experience To overcome wi-fi problems that people can encounter in the Weve seen record levels of data traffic sustained throughout the year, and home, we developed and launched the BT Smart Hub.
This uses our investments have been focused to maintain high levels of performance.
smart technology such as improved antennas to improve wi-fi performance.
For example, we installed infrastructure that cuts congestion in the core network to improve the UK broadband experience.
See page 30 We also developed the systems behind the new BT Call Protect for more on the improvements weve been making to our networks.
service, designed to stop companies that regularly pester our customers with nuisance calls.
Weve improved the reliability of the IT systems we use to trade with our customers for the fourth year in a row.
Weve also continued to cut our costs and the groups energy consumption.
See page 42 for more details.
PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 81 Lines of business continued Technology, Service and Operations TSO continued The table below summarises the progress weve made on the top Priorities for the year ahead priorities we set out in last years report.
Review of last years priorities Over the next 12 months well carry on WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID improving our networks, platforms and IT We said wed develop We successfully trialled Long-Reach VDSL systems, and doing everything possible to technology solutions at Isfield, Sussex and North Tolsta on the help deliver a great customer experience.
that increase the Isle of Lewis.
broadband speeds for homes at the end of long copper lines.
Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Enhance the UK broadband experience We said wed move Weve started running wholesale and deploy architectural and infrastructure improvements to cope from a technology communications provider trials of with broadband traffic growth and improve the quality of the trial to a live IPvoice.
customer trial of an all-IP voice service.
Extend 4G coverage deliver upgrades to existing mobile cell sites and deploy new We said wed Weve performed perception tests to cell sites to increase 4G coverage in support of the Emergency investigate see what viewers think of the latest Service Network contract.
technology that developments in TV technology.
could provide better Improve systems reliability picture quality on continue to improve the reliability of our IT and network our TV platform.
platforms, ensuring theyre as resilient as possible.
We said wed We added a new software-defined enhance the cloudWAN service to Global Services dynamic based services network services portfolio.
that we offer to businesses.
We said wed We turned off some of the equipment continue in our PSTN network that we no longer our network needed, saving over 1m in energy rationalisation.
By removing this older equipment, weve also released spares to avoid repair costs and help contribute to the best performance of the PSTN in eight years.
82 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB
