Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 1.
Basis of preparation continued Group cash flow statement 2016 2015 Italian Italian business business As published adjustment Revised As published adjustment Revised For the year ended 31March m m m m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 5,179 28 5,151 4,796 8 4,788 Net cash flow from investing activities 5,145 28 5,117 4,064 8 4,056 Net cash flow from financing activities 42 42 1,028 1,028 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 76 76 296 296 Opening cash and cash equivalents 407 407 684 684 Effect of exchange rate changes 24 24 19 19 Closing cash and cash equivalents 459 459 407 407 2.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of our keyjudgements consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless requires the use of accounting estimates and assumptions.
requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying our accounting policies.
We continually evaluate Basis of consolidation our estimates, assumptions and judgements based on available The group financial statements consolidate the financial statements information and experience.
As the use of estimates is inherent in of BT Group plc and its subsidiaries, and include its share of the financial reporting, actual results could differ from these estimates.
results of associates and joint ventures using the equity method of Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and accounting.
The group recognises its direct rights to and its share associated disclosures with the Audit and Risk Committee.
The of jointly held assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of joint areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity are operations under the appropriate headings in the consolidated described in the applicable notes to the financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and key judgements can be identified throughout the notes by the following symbol.
A subsidiary is an entity that is controlled by another entity, known as the parent or investor.
An investor controls an investee when We have the following critical accounting estimates and key the investor is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its judgements: involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those R evenue from multiple element arrangements, see note 4 returns through its power over the investee.
Sub scriber acquisition and retention costs, see note 5 Curr ent and deferred income tax, see note 9 Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated Goodwill, see no te 12 subsidiaries, which consist of the amounts of those interests at the U seful lives for property, plant and equipment and software, see date of the original business combination and non-controlling share note 13 of changes in equity since the date of the combination, are not Go vernment grants relating to Broadband Delivery UK BDUK material to the groups financial statements.
contracts, see note 13 Busines s combinations, see note 14 The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year L ong-term customer contracts, see note 17 are consolidated from and up to the date of change of control.
P roviding for doubtful debts, see note 17 Where necessary, accounting policies of subsidiaries have been P rovisions and contingent liabilities, see note 19 aligned with the policies adopted by the group.
All intra-group Pension obligations, see note 20 transactions including any gains or losses, balances, income or expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
When the group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
The profit or loss on disposal is recognised as a specific item.
176 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 177 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The percentage of completion method relies on estimates of 3.
Significant accounting policies continued total expected contract revenues and costs, as well as reliable measurement of the progress made towards completion.
Unless the Revenue financial outcome of a contract can be estimated with reasonable Revenue represents the fair value of the consideration received or certainty, no attributable profit is recognised.
In such circumstances, receivable for communications services and equipment sales, net of revenue is recognised equal to the costs incurred to date, to the discounts and sales taxes.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable extent that such revenue is expected to be recoverable, or costs are that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to accrued to bring the margin to nil.
Recognised revenue and profits the group and the amount of revenue and associated costs can be are subject to revisions during the contract if the assumptions measured reliably.
The accounting for revenue sharing arrangements regarding the overall contract outcome are changed.
The cumulative depends on the analysis of the facts and circumstances surrounding impact of a revision in estimates is recorded in the period in which these transactions.
such revisions become likely and can be estimated.
Where the actual and estimated costs to completion exceed the estimated revenue for Where we act as an agent in a transaction, we recognise revenue net a contract, the full contract life loss is recognised immediately.
Multiple element arrangements and bundles Services Revenue from multiple element arrangements and bundles is Revenue arising from separable installation and connection services described in note 4. is recognised when it is earned, upon activation.
Revenue from the rental of analogue and digital lines and private circuits is recognised Operating and reportable segments on a straight line basis over the period to which it relates.
Revenue Our operating segments are reported based on financial information from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over our provided to the Operating Committee, as detailed on page14, network.
Subscription fees, consisting primarily of monthly charges which is the key management committee and represents the chief for access to broadband and other internet access or voice services, operating decision maker.
are recognised as revenue as the service is provided.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data traffic between other Our organisational structure reflects the different customer groups telecommunications operators is recognised at the time of transit to which we provide communications products and services via our across our network.
customer-facing lines of business: Consumer, EE, Business and Public Sector, Global Services, Wholesale and Ventures and Openreach.
Revenues from telephone service and internet access subscription The customer-facing lines of business are supported by an internal fees as well as those from wholesale access revenues are recognised service unit: Technology, Service & Operations TSO.
on a straight line basis over the period to which they relate.
Revenue from calls is recognised at the time the call is made over the groups The customer-facing lines of business are our reportable segments network.
Revenue from the interconnection of voice and data traffic and generate substantially all of our revenue.
We aggregate the between other telecommunications operators is recognised at the remaining operations and include within the Other category to time of transit across the groups network.
reconcile to the consolidated results of the group.
The Other category includes TSO and our centralised functions including Equipment sales procurement and property management.
Revenue from the sale of equipment is recognised when all the significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the Provisions for the settlement of significant legal, commercial and customer, which is normally the date the equipment is delivered and regulatory disputes, which are negotiated at a group level, are accepted by the customer.
initially recorded in the Other segment.
On resolution of the dispute, the full impact is recognised in the results of the relevant Long-term contractual arrangements line of business and offset in the group results through the utilisation Revenue from long-term contractual arrangements, including fixed of the provision previously charged to the Other segment.
price contracts to design and build software solutions, is recognised Settlements which are particularly significant or cover more than based on the percentage of completion method.
The stage of one financial year may fall within the definition of specific items as completion is estimated using an appropriate measure according to detailed on page 252. the nature of the contract such as the proportion of costs incurred relative to the estimated total contract costs, or other measures of The costs incurred by TSO are recharged to the customer-facing lines completion such as the achievement of contract milestones and of business to reflect the services it provides to them.
In the case of time and materials contracts, and amortisation incurred by TSO in relation to the networks and revenue is recognised as the service is rendered.
systems it manages and operates on behalf of the customerfacing lines of business is allocated to the lines of business based Costs related to delivering services under long-term contractual on their respective utilisation.
Capital expenditure incurred by TSO arrangements are expensed as incurred except for an element for specific projects undertaken on behalf of the customer-facing of costs incurred in the initial contract set-up, transition or lines of business is allocated based on the value of the directly transformation phase, which is deferred and recorded within attributable expenditure incurred.
Where projects are not directly non-current assets.
These costs are then recognised in the income attributable to a particular line of business, capital expenditure statement on a straight line basis over the remaining contract term, is allocated between them based on the proportion of estimated unless the pattern of service delivery indicates a different profile is future economic benefits.
TSO and the groups centralised functions more appropriate.
These costs are directly attributable to specific are not reportable segments as they did not meet the quantitative contracts, relate to future activity, will generate future economic thresholds as set out in IFRS8 Operating Segments for any of the benefits and are assessed for recoverability on a regular basis.
176 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The estimated useful lives assigned to principal categories of assets 3.
Significant accounting policies continued are as follows: Performance of each reportable segment is measured based on adjusted EBITDA, defined as EBITDA before specific items, as included Land and buildings in the internal financial reports reviewed by the Operating Committee.
Freehold buildings 14 to 50 years EBITDA is defined as the operating profit or loss before depreciation, Short-term leasehold improvements Shorter of 10 years or amortisation, net finance expense and taxation.
Adjusted EBITDA is lease term considered to be a useful measure of the operating performance of Leasehold land and buildings Unexpired portion of lease or the lines of business because it approximates the underlying operating 40 years, whichever is the shorter cash flow by eliminating depreciation and amortisation and also provides a meaningful analysis of trading performance by excluding Network infrastructure specific items, which are disclosed separately by virtue of their size, Transmission equipment nature or incidence.
Specific items are detailed in note8 and are not allocated to the reportable segments as this reflects how they are Duct 40 years reported to the Operating Committee.
Finance expense and income Cable 3 to 25 years are not allocated to the reportable segments, as the central treasury Fibre 5 to 20 years function manages this activity, together with the overall net debt Exchange equipment 2 to 13 years position of the group.
Other network equipment 2 to 20 years The comparative results for all six customer facing lines of business Other assets have been revised to reflect the 1 April 2016 reorganisation of the reporting segments, see note 1.
Motor vehicles 2 to 9 years Computers and office equipment 3 to 7 years Retirement benefits The groups net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter isthe present value of the defined benefit obligation less the fair of the lease term or their useful economic life.
Residual values and value of the plan assets.
useful lives are reassessed annually and, if necessary, changes are recognised prospectively.
The calculation of the obligation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method and key actuarial Network share assets assumptions at the balance sheet date.
Certain assets have been contributed to a network share arrangement by both EE and Hutchison 3G UK Limited, with The income statement expense is allocated between an operating legal title remaining with the contributor.
This is considered to charge and net finance income or expense.
The operating charge be a reciprocal arrangement.
The groups share of the assets on reflects the increase in the defined benefit obligation resulting from acquisition of EE was recognised at fair value within tangible assets, the pension benefit earned by active employees in the current period, and depreciated in line with the groups policy.
Subsequent additions the costs of administering the plans and any past service costs credits are recorded at cost.
For further information see note 13. such as those arising from curtailments or settlements.
The net finance income or expense reflects the interest on the net retirement Intangible assets benefit obligations recognised in the group balance sheet, based on Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the group controls the discount rate at the start of the year.
Actuarial gains and losses are the asset, it is probable that future economic benefits attributable recognised in full in the period in which they occur and are presented to the asset will flow to the group and the cost of the asset can in the group statement of comprehensive income.
All intangible assets, other than goodwill, are amortised over their useful economic life.
The method of The group also operates defined contribution pension plans and the amortisation reflects the pattern in which the assets are expected income statement expense represents the contributions payable for to be consumed.
If the pattern cannot be determined reliably, the theyear.
straight line method is used.
Property, plant and equipment Goodwill Property, plant and equipment are included at historical cost, net of Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the accumulated depreciation, government grants and any impairment fair value of the groups share of the identifiable net assets including charges.
Property, plant and equipment acquired through business intangible assets of the acquired business.
combinations are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently accounted for on the same basis as the groups existing assets.
An For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal business combination is allocated to each of the Cash Generating or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise from the Units CGUs that is expected to benefit from the business continued use of the asset.
The difference between the sale proceeds combination.
Each CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the and the net book value at the date of disposal is recognised in lowest level within the group at which the goodwill is monitored for operating costs in the income statement.
Included within the cost of network infrastructure and equipment Acquired intangible assets customer relationships and brands are direct and indirect labour costs, materials and directly Intangible assets such as customer relationships or brands acquired attributable overheads.
through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at amortised Depreciation is provided on property, plant and equipment on a cost.
Assumptions are used in estimating the fair values of these straight line basis from the time the asset is available for use, to write relationships or brands and include managements estimates of off the assets cost over the estimated useful life taking into account revenue and profits to be generated by them.
Freehold land is not depreciated.
178 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 179 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Programme rights are tested for impairment in accordance with the 3.
Significant accounting policies continued groups policy for impairment of non-financial assets set out below.
Related cash outflows are classified as operating cash flows in the Telecommunications licences cash flow statement.
Licence fees paid to governments, which permit telecommunications activities to be operated for defined periods, are initially recorded at Inventories cost and amortised from the time the network is available for use to Network maintenance equipment and equipment to be sold to the end of the licence period or where our usage can extend beyond customers are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value, the licence period, over the period we expect to benefit from the taking into account expected revenues from the sale of packages use of the licences, which is typically 20 years.
Licences acquired comprising a mobile handset and a subscription.
Cost corresponds to through business combinations are recorded at fair value at the date purchase or production cost determined by either the first in first out of acquisition and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
The fair FIFO cost or average cost method.
value is based on managements assumption of future cash flows using market expectations at acquisition date.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the group has a present legal or Computer software constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that Computer software comprises computer software licences purchased an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and from third parties, and also the cost of internally developed the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are determined by software.
Computer software licences purchased from third parties discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that are initially recorded at cost.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and Costs directly associated with the production of internally developed the risks specific to the liability.
Financial liabilities within provisions are software, including direct and indirect labour costs of development, initially recognised at fair value and subsequently carried at amortised are capitalised only where it is probable that the software will cost using the effective interest method.
Onerous lease provisions are generate future economic benefits, the cost of the asset can be measured at the lower of the cost to fulfil or to exit the contract.
reliably measured and technical feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an intangible asset on the balance Current and deferred income tax sheet.
Costs which do not meet these criteria and research costs are Current income tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted expensed as incurred.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date in the countries where the groups subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures operate The groups development costs which give rise to internally and generate taxable income.
The group periodically evaluates developed software include upgrading the network architecture or positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which functionality and developing service platforms aimed at offering new applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation, and the group services to the groups customers.
See research and development on establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of the amounts page 32. expected to be paid to tax authorities.
Other Deferred tax is recognised, using the liability method, in respect of Other intangible assets include website development costs and other temporary differences between the carrying amount of the groups licences.
Items are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight line assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred income tax assets basis over their useful economic life or the term of the contract.
and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when Estimated useful economic lives the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes The estimated useful economic lives assigned to the principal levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity categories of intangible assets are as follows: or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Any remaining deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can Computer software 2 to 10 years be regarded as probable that there will be suitable taxable profits, Telecommunications licences 2 to 20 years within the same jurisdiction, in the foreseeable future against which Customer relationships and brands 1 to 15 years the deductible temporary difference can be utilised.
Programme rights Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that are expected to Programme rights are recognised on the balance sheet from apply in the periods in which the asset is realised or liability settled, the point at which the legally enforceable licence period begins.
based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively Rights for which the licence period has not started are disclosed as enacted by the balance sheet date.
Payments made to receive commissioned or acquired programming in advance of the legal right Impairment of non-financial assets to broadcast the programmes are classified as prepayments.
Intangible assets with finite useful lives and property, plant and equipment are tested for impairment if events or changes in Programme rights are initially recognised at cost and are amortised circumstances assessed at each reporting date indicate that the from the point at which they are available for use, on a straight line carrying amount may not be recoverable.
When an impairment test basis over the programming period, or the remaining licence term, as is performed, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the appropriate, this is generally 12 months.
The amortisation charge is higher of the net present value of the expected future cash flows recorded within operating costs in the income statement.
value in use of the relevant cash generating unit and the fair value less costs to dispose.
Programmes produced internally are recognised within current assets at production cost, which includes labour costs and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads, and charged to the income statement over the period of the related broadcast.
178 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 179 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Leases 3.
Significant accounting policies continued The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement and requires Goodwill is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Impairment an assessment of whether the fulfilment of the arrangement is losses are recognised in the income statement, as a specific item.
If dependent on the use of a specific asset or assets and whether the a cash generating unit is impaired, impairment losses are allocated arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
firstly against goodwill, and secondly on a pro-rata basis against intangible and other assets.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the group holds substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified Government grants as finance leases.
Finance lease assets are capitalised at the Government grants are recognised when there is reasonable commencement of the lease term at the lower of the present value of assurance that the conditions associated with the grants have been the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the leased asset.
The complied with and the grants will be received.
obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are recognised as liabilities.
Leases are subsequently Grants for the purchase or production of property, plant and measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
equipment are deducted from the cost of the related assets and reduce future depreciation expense accordingly.
Grants for the Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards are held reimbursement of operating expenditure are deducted from the by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Rentals are charged related category of costs in the income statement.
Government to the income statement on a straight line basis over the period of grants received relating to the BDUK programme and other rural the lease.
superfast broadband contracts are accounted for as described under Critical accounting estimates and key judgements.
Own shares Own shares represent the shares of the parent company BT Group Once a government grant is recognised, any related contingent plc that are held in treasury or by employee share ownership trusts.
liability or contingent asset is treated in accordance with IAS37 Own shares are recorded at cost and deducted from equity.
When Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
shares vest unconditionally or are cancelled they are transferred from the own shares reserve to retained earnings at their weighted Foreign currencies average cost.
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Share-based payments transaction.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the The group operates a number of equity settled share-based settlement of transactions and the translation of monetary assets payment arrangements, under which the group receives services and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at period end from employees in consideration for equity instruments share exchange rates are recognised in the income statement line which options and shares of the group.
Equity settled share-based most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction.
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
Marketbased performance criteria and non-vesting conditions for example, On consolidation, assets and liabilities of foreign undertakings are the requirement for employees to make contributions to the share translated into Sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results of purchase programme are reflected in this measurement of fair foreign undertakings are translated into Sterling at average rates value.
The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised as of exchange for the year unless this average is not a reasonable an expense on a straight line basis over the vesting period, based on approximation of the cumulative effects of the rates prevailing the groups estimate of the options or shares that will eventually vest on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are and adjusted for the effect of non market-based vesting conditions.
translated at the dates of the transactions.
Foreign exchange Fair value is measured using either the Binomial options pricing differences arising on retranslation are recognised directly in a model or Monte Carlo simulations, whichever is more appropriate to separate component of equity, the translation reserve.
In the event of the disposal of an undertaking with assets and Service and performance conditions are vesting conditions.
Any liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, the cumulative other conditions are non-vesting conditions which have to be taken translation difference associated with the undertaking in the into account to determine the fair value of equity instruments translation reserve is charged or credited to the gain or loss on granted.
In the case that an award or option does not vest as a disposal recognised in the income statement.
result of a failure to meet a non-vesting condition that is within the control of either counterparty, this is accounted for as a Research and development cancellation.
Cancellations are treated as accelerated vesting and all Research expenditure is recognised in the income statement in the remaining future charges are immediately recognised in the income period in which it is incurred.
As the requirement to save under an employee saveshare the cost of internally developed software, is recognised in the income arrangement is a non-vesting condition, employee cancellations are statement in the period in which it is incurred unless it is probable treated as an accelerated vesting.
that economic benefits will flow to the group from the asset being developed, the cost of the asset can be reliably measured and technical No adjustment is made to total equity for awards that lapse or are feasibility can be demonstrated, in which case it is capitalised as an forfeited after the vesting date.
intangible asset on the balance sheet.
Capitalisation ceases when the asset being developed is ready for use.
Research and development Termination benefits costs include direct and indirect labour, materials and directly Termination benefits leaver costs are payable when employment is attributable overheads.
terminated before the normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts voluntary redundancy in exchange for these benefits.
The group recognises termination benefits when it is demonstrably committed to the affected employees leaving the group.
180 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 181 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Derivative financial instruments 3.
Significant accounting policies continued The group uses derivative financial instruments mainly to reduce exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
The groups Financial instruments policy is not to use derivatives for trading purposes.
However, Financial liabilities at amortised cost derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting or are specifically Trade and other payables not designated as a hedge where natural offset is more appropriate Financial liabilities within trade and other payables are initially are initially recognised and subsequently measured at fair value recognised at fair value, which is usually the original invoiced through profit and loss.
Any direct transaction costs are recognised amount, and subsequently carried at amortised cost using the immediately in the income statement.
Gains and losses on reeffective interest method.
measurement are recognised in the income statement in the line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or transaction to Loans and other borrowings which they relate.
Derivative financial instruments are classified as Loans and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value current assets or current liabilities where they have a maturity period of amounts received net of transaction costs.
Loans and other within 12 months.
Where derivative financial instruments have a borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using maturity period greater than 12 months, they are classified within the effective interest method and, if included in a fair value hedge either non-current assets or non-current liabilities.
relationship, are re-valued to reflect the fair value movements on the hedged risk associated with the loans and other borrowings.
The Where the fair value of a derivative contract at initial recognition resulting amortisation of fair value movements, on fide-designation is not supported by observable market data and differs from the of the hedge, is recognised in the income statement.
transaction price, a day one gain or loss will arise which is not recognised in the income statement.
Such gains and losses are Available-for-sale investments deferred and amortised to the income statement based on the Liquid and other investments are classified as available-for-sale remaining contractual term and as observable market data becomes investments and are initially recognised at fair value plus direct available.
transaction costs and then re-measured at subsequent reporting dates to fair value, with unrealised gains and losses except Hedge accounting for changes in exchange rates for monetary items, interest, Where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of dividends and impairment losses, which are recognised in the any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the hedge.
income statement recognised in equity until the financial asset is To qualify for hedge accounting, hedge documentation must be derecognised, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously prepared at inception and the hedge must be expected to be highly recognised in equity is taken to the income statement, in the effective both prospectively and retrospectively.
The hedge is tested line that most appropriately reflects the nature of the item or for effectiveness at inception and in subsequent periods in which transaction.
On disposal or impairment of the investments, any gains the hedge remains in operation.
Hedge accounting is discontinued and losses that have been deferred in other comprehensive income when the hedging instrument expires, or is sold, terminated or no are re-classified to the income statement.
Dividends on equity longer qualifies for hedge accounting or the group chooses to end investments are recognised in the income statement when the the hedge relationship.
The group designates certain derivatives as groups right to receive payment is established.
Equity investments either cash flow hedges or fair value hedges.
are recorded in non-current assets unless they are expected to be sold within one year.
Cash flow hedges When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge Loans and receivables of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a Trade and other receivables highly probable transaction, the effective part of any gain or loss on Trade and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value, the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in equity, which is usually the original invoiced amount, and are subsequently in the cash flow reserve.
For cash flow hedges of recognised assets carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest method, or liabilities, the associated cumulative gain or loss is removed from less provisions made for doubtful receivables.
Provisions are made equity and recognised in the same line of the income statement and specifically where there is evidence of a risk of non-payment, in the same period or periods that the hedged transaction affects taking into account ageing, previous losses experienced and general the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness arising on a cash flow economic conditions.
hedge of a recognised asset or liability is recognised immediately in the same income statement line as the hedged item.
Where Cash and cash equivalents ineffectiveness arises on highly probable transactions, it is recognised Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and current in the income statement line which most appropriately reflects the balances with banks and similar institutions, which are readily nature of the item or transaction.
convertible to cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value and have an original maturity of three months or less.
For Fair value hedges the purpose of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash When a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge equivalents are as defined above net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
of the variability in fair value of a recognised asset or liability, or Bank overdrafts are included within loans and other borrowings, in unrecognised firm commitment, the change in fair value of the current liabilities on the balance sheet.
derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge is recorded in the income statement at each reporting date, together with Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through any changes in fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is profit or loss attributable to the hedged risk.
All of the groups derivative financial instruments are held for trading and classified as fair value through profit or loss.
180 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 181
