Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149 Notice of Annual General Meeting This document is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you should seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares, please send this document, together with the accompanying documents, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, fordelivery to the purchaser or transferee.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting or to convert any security into shares in the Company of the members of LondonMetric Property Plc Registered together Relevant Securities up to an aggregate number 7124797 will be held at The Connaught, Carlos nominal amount of 23,099,069 such amount to Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL on 11 July 2017 at 10.00 am.
be reduced by the nominal amount of any equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 of the Resolutions 1 to 17 inclusive will be proposed as ordinary 2006 Act allotted under paragraph 17b below in resolutions and resolutions 18 to 21 inclusive will be excess of 23,099,069 : and proposed as special resolutions.
b. to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot 1.
That the Annual Report and Audited Financial equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 Statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 be of the 2006 Act up to a maximum nominal amount considered and approved.
of 46,198,137 such amount to be reduced by 2.
That the Remuneration Policy in the form set out in the any Relevant Securities allotted or granted under Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for paragraph 17a above provided that this authority theyear ended 31 March 2017 be approved.
may only be used in connection with a rights issue in favour of holders of ordinary shares and other 3.
That the Annual Report on Remuneration in the form persons entitled to participate therein where the set out in the Annual Report and Audited Financial equity securities respectively attributable to the Statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 other interests of all those persons at such record date than the part containing the Remuneration Policy as the Directors may determine are proportionate be approved.
as nearly as may be to the respective numbers 4.
That Deloitte LLP be reappointed as auditor of the of equity securities held by them or are otherwise Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next allotted in accordance with the rights attaching to general meeting at which accounts are laid before such equity securities subject to such exclusions or the Company.
other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional 5.
That the Directors be authorised to determine the entitlements or legal difficulties under the laws of remuneration of the auditor.
any territory or the requirements of a regulatory 6.
That Patrick Vaughan be re-elected as a Director.
body or stock exchange or by virtue of shares being represented by depositary receipts or any other 7.
That Andrew Jones be re-elected as a Director.
That Martin McGann be re-elected as a Director.
provided that the authorities in paragraphs 17a and 9.
That Valentine Beresford be re-elected as a Director.
17b shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing 10.
That Mark Stirling be re-elected as a Director.
of this resolution or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the date of the Annual General 11.
That James Dean be re-elected as a Director.
Meeting, except that the Company may before such 12.
That Alec Pelmore be re-elected as a Director.
expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require Relevant Securities or equity securities as 13.
That Andrew Varley be re-elected as a Director.
the case may be to be allotted and treasury shares to 14.
That Philip Watson be re-elected as a Director.
be sold after such expiry and the Directors may allot Relevant Securities or equity securities and sell treasury 15.
That Rosalyn Wilton be re-elected as a Director.
shares in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as 16.
That Andrew Livingston be re-elected as a Director.
if the authority in question had not expired.
That the Directors be and they are hereby generally 18.
That the Directors be and are empowered, in and unconditionally authorised in accordance with accordance with Sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act, Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, to allot equity securities as dened in section 560 1 in substitution for all existing authorities: of the 2006 Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 17 or by way of a sale of treasury a. t o exercise all the powers of the Company to allot shares as if section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply shares and to make offers or agreements to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for 150 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued to its expiry the Company may make offers, and enter to any such allotment or sale, provided that this power into agreements which would, or might, require equity shall be limited to: securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be sold a. the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury after the authority expires and the Directors may allot shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or equity securities and sell treasury shares under any invitation to apply for, equity securities made to but such offer or agreement as if the authority in question in the case of the authority conferred by paragraph had not expired.
17b of resolution 17 above, by way of a rights 20.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and issue only : unconditionally authorised, in accordance with i t o ordinary shareholders in proportion as nearly Section 701 of the 2006 Act, to make market purchases as may be practicable to their existing holdings: within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the 2006 Act and of ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary shares on such terms and in ii t o holders of other equity securities as required such manner as the Directors may from time to time by the rights of those securities or, if the Directors determine provided that: otherwise consider necessary, as permitted by the rights of those securities, a. the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 69,297,206: a nd so that the Directors may impose any limits or restrictions and make any arrangements which they b. the minimum price which may be paid for an consider necessary or appropriate to deal with any ordinary share is 10p being the nominal amount treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, thereof exclusive of expenses payable by legal, regulatory or practical problems in, or under the Company : the laws of, any territory or any other matter: and c. the maximum price which may be paid for an b. the allotment of equity securities or sale of treasury ordinary share exclusive of expenses payable by the shares otherwise than under paragraph 18a above Company cannot be more than the higher of: up to an aggregate nominal amount of3,464,860, i 1 05% of the average market value of an ordinary provided that this power shall expire at the conclusion share for the five business days prior to the day of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company on which the ordinary share is contracted to be or, if earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the purchased: and date of the Annual General Meeting but prior to its ii t he value of an ordinary share calculated on the expiry the Company may make offers, and enter into basis of the higher of: agreements, which would, or might, require equity securities to be allotted and treasury shares to be A. the last independent trade of: or sold after the authority expires and the Directors may B. the highest current independent bid for, allot equity securities and sell treasury shares under any such offer or agreement as if the authority had a ny number of ordinary shares on the trading venue not expired.
where the market purchase by the Company will be carried out: and 19.
That the Directors be and are empowered, in addition to any authority granted under resolution 18, to allot the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion equity securities as dened in Section 560 1 of the 2006 of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by except that the Company may before such expiry resolution 17 or by way of a sale of treasury shares as if make a contract to purchase its own shares which will Section 561 1 of the 2006 Act did not apply to any such or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after allotment or sale, such power to be: such expiry.
a. limited to the allotment of equity securities or sale 21.
That the Company is authorised to call any general of treasury shares up to a nominal amount of meeting of the Company other than the Annual 3,464,860: and General Meeting by notice of at least 14 clear days b. used only for the purposes of nancing or during the period beginning on the date of the passing renancing, if the authority is to be used within six of this resolution and ending on the conclusion of the months after the original transaction a transaction next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
which the Directors determine to be an acquisition By order of the Board or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this notice, Jadzia Duzniak provided that this power shall expire at the end of the Company Secretary next Annual General Meeting of the Company or, if 31 May 2017 earlier, on the date which is 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting but, in each case, prior Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 vii CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by Notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting: utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service i Shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may do so by utilising the procedures described in the may appoint one or more proxies who need not be CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST shareholders to attend, speak and vote on their behalf, sponsored members, and those CREST members who have provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their rights attaching to the different shares held by him or her.
CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be ii Your proxy could be the Chairman, another Director of the able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Company or another person who has agreed to attend to viii In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made represent you.
Your proxy will vote as you instruct and must by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST attend the meeting for your vote to be counted.
Details of message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly how to appoint the Chairman or another person as your authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & proxy using the proxy form are set out in the notes to the Irelands specications and must contain the information proxy form.
required for such instructions, as described in the CREST iii Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes nominated under Section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the information rights a Nominated Person may, under instruction given to a previously appointed proxy, must, an agreement between him her and the shareholder in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be by the issuers agent ID number RA10 by 10 am on 7 July appointed or to have someone else appointed as a 2017.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken tobe proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the Person has no such proxy appointment right, or does not message by the CREST Applications Host from which the wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, issuers agent is able to retrieve the message byenquiry to have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of ix The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation paragraph i above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
The rights described in that paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
x CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that iv To have the right to attend and vote at the meeting you Euroclear UK & Ireland does not make available special must hold ordinary shares in the Company and your name procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
must be entered on the share register of the Company in Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply accordance with note vi below.
in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the v To be valid, Forms of Proxy and the power of attorney or responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or certied copy thereof must be completed and signed sponsored member or has appointed a voting service and received by Capita Asset Services at PXS1, The Registry, provider s, to procure that his or her CREST sponsor or 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4ZF as soon voting service provider s take s such action as shall be aspossible but, in any event, so as to arrive no later than necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by 10am on 7 July 2017.
A Form of Proxy accompanies this means of the CREST system by any particular time.
Completion and return of a Form of Proxy will connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their not preclude members from attending and voting at CREST sponsors or voting system providers are referred, the meeting should they wish to do so.
Where you have in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual appointed a proxy using the hard copy proxy form and concerning practical limitations of the CREST system would like to change the instructions using another hard and timings.
copy proxy form, please contact Capita Asset Services at xi Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or PXS1, The Registry, 34Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent more corporate representatives who may exercise on its BR3 4ZF.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do seeabove also applies in relation to amended instructions.
not do so in relation to the same shares.
Any attempt to terminate or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
xii You may not use any electronic address provided either Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy in this Notice of Annual General Meeting or any related are received in respect of the same share in respect of the documents including the form of proxy to communicate same meeting, the one which is last sent shall be treated with the Company for any purposes other than those asreplacing and revoking the other or others.
vi The time by which a person must be entered on the register xiii As at 30 May 2017 being the closest practical business of members in order to have the right to attend or vote day before the publication of this Notice, the Companys at the meeting is close of business on 7 July 2017.
If the issued share capital consisted of 692,972,064 ordinary meeting is adjourned, the time by which a person must be shares carrying one vote each.
entered on the register of members in order to have the xiv Members satisfying the thresholds in Section 527 of the 2006 right to attend or vote at the adjourned meeting is close Act can require the Company to publish a statement on its of business on the day that is two days before the date website setting out any matter relating to: xed for the adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the a. t he audit of the Companys accounts including the register of members after such times shall be disregarded auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote to be laid before the meeting: or atthe meeting.
152 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued b. a ny circumstances connected with an auditor of the Resolution 2 Remuneration Policy Company ceasing to hold office since the last Annual Resolution 2 is an ordinary resolution to approve the new General Meeting, that the members propose to raise at Directors Remuneration Policy which will replace the the meeting.
Shareholders are invited to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy which is The Company cannot require the members requesting the set out on pages 88 to 99 of the Annual Report.
The policy, which publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed on sets out the Companys forward looking policy on Directors the website must also be sent to the Companys auditor remuneration, is subject to a binding shareholder voteby no later than the time it makes its statement available on ordinary resolution at least every three years.
The business which may be dealt with at the meeting includes any statement that the Company has Once the Directors Remuneration Policy has been approved, been required to publish on its website.
all payments by the Company to the Directors and any former Directors must be made in accordance with the xv Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask policy unless a payment has separately been approved questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any byshareholder resolution.
such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if: If the Company wishes to change the Directors Remuneration Policy, it will need to put the revised policy to a shareholder a. to d o so would interfere unduly with the preparation vote again before it can implement any payments pursuant for the meeting or involve the disclosure of to the amended policy.
If the Directors Remuneration Policy condential information: remains unchanged, the 2006 Act requires the Company to b. t he answer has already been given on a website in the put the policy to shareholders for approval again no later than form of an answer to a question: or 11 July 2020. c. i t is undesirable in the interests of the Company or Resolution 3 Annual Report on Remuneration the good order of the meeting that the question beanswered.
Resolution 3 is an ordinary resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration on the implementation of the xvi A copy of this Notice, and other information required by Remuneration Policy.
Section 439 of the 2006 Act requires UKSection 311A of the 2006 Act, can be found at incorporated listed companies to put their Annual Report on www.
Remuneration to an advisory shareholder vote.
As the vote is xvii The following documents are available for inspection advisory it does not affect the actual remuneration paid to any at the registered office of the Company during normal individual Director.
The Annual Report on Remuneration is set out business hours on each weekday public holidays in full in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
excluded from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Resolutions 4 and 5 Reappointment of auditors Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during Resolution 4 relates to the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the the meeting: Companys auditor to hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and Resolution 5 authorises the a. co pies of the Executive Directors service contracts with Directors to set their remuneration.
the Company: and b. co pies of letters of appointment of NonExecutive Resolutions 6 to 16 Re-election and election of Directors Directors: and Resolutions 6 to 16 deal with re-election of the Directors.
c. a copy of the Articles of Association of the Company.
Biographies of each of the Directors seeking re-election can be found on pages 60 and 61 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
xviii In the case of joint registered holders, the signature of one The Board has confirmed, following a performance review, holder on a proxy card will be accepted and the vote of that all Directors standing for re-election continue to perform the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or effectively and demonstrate commitment to their role.
by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose, seniority shall Resolution 17 Allotment of share capital be determined by the order in which names stand on the At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company the register of members of the Company in respect of the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares in the relevant joint holding.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on the date which is Explanatory notes: 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The information below is an explanation of the business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting.
Your Board considers it appropriate that a similar authority be granted to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the Resolution 1 To receive the Annual Report and Audited Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 23,099,069 Financial Statements representing approximately one third of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 May 2017 during the period The Chairman will present the Annual Report and Audited up to the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 to the the Company.
Such authority is sought in paragraph 17a of meeting.
Resolution 1 is to consider and approve the Report of Resolution 17. the Directors, the financial statements and the Auditors report on the financial statements and on the auditable part of the In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Investment Annual Report on Remuneration for the financial year ended Association, paragraph 17b of Resolution 17 will allow Directors 31 March 2017. to allot, including the shares referred to in paragraph 17a of Resolution 17, shares in the Company in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a rights issue to shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 46,198,137, representing approximately two thirds of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 May 2017.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 Your Board considers it appropriate to seek this additional The Directors have no present intention of exercising the allotment authority at the Annual General Meeting in order authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will to take advantage of the exibility it offers.
However, the keep the matter under review, taking into account the financial Board has no present intention of exercising either authority.
resources of the Company, the Companys share price and If they do exercise the authority, the Directors intend to follow future funding opportunities.
The authority will be exercised only best practice as regards its use, as recommended by the after consideration by the Directors of the effect on net asset Investment Association.
value and if the Directors believe that to do so would be in the interests of shareholders generally.
Any purchases of ordinary As at the date of this Notice the Company does not hold any shares would be by means of market purchases through the ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
Resolutions 18 and 19 General and additional authority to Listed companies purchasing their own shares are allowed disapply pre-emption rights to hold them in treasury as an alternative to cancelling them.
No dividends are paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no At the last Annual General Meeting of the Company the voting rights attach to treasury shares.
Directors were also given authority to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing If Resolution 20 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, shareholders.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the it is the Companys current intention to hold in treasury the Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, on the date which is majority of the shares it may purchase pursuant to the authority 15 months after the date of the Annual General Meeting.
However, in order to respond properly to the Companys capital requirements and prevailing market The passing of Resolutions 18 and 19 would allow the Directors conditions, the Directors will need to reassess at the time of to allot equity securities or sell any shares which the Company any and each actual purchase whether to hold the shares may purchase and hold in treasury without first offering them to in treasury or cancel them, provided it is permitted to do so.
existing holders in proportion to their existing holdings.
The Company may hold a maximum of up to 10% of its issued The authority set out in Resolution 18 is limited to: a allotments or share capital in treasury in accordance with guidelines issued by sales in connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders theInvestment Association.
of other equity securities if required by the rights of those shares: As at 30 May 2017 the latest practicable date before or b otherwise than in connection with a pre-emptive offer, up publication of this Notice, there were share awards over to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,464,860 representing 6,889,357 ordinary shares in the capital of the Company 34,648,600 shares.
This aggregate nominal amount represents representing 0.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at capital.
If the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary 30 May 2017. shares was exercised in full, these awards would represent 0.99% Taking into account the template resolutions published by of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
the UK Pre-Emption Group in May 2016, the authority set out in Resolution 19 is limited to allotments or sales of up to Resolution 21 Notice period for general meetings an aggregate nominal amount of 3,464,860 representing It is proposed in Resolution 21 that shareholders should 34,648,600 shares in addition to the authority set out in approvethe continued ability of the Company to hold general Resolution 18 which are used only for the purposes of nancing meetings other than the Annual General Meeting on 14 clear or renancing, if the authority is to be used within six months days notice.
after the original transaction a transaction which the Directors This resolution is required under Section 307A of the 2006 Act.
determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment Under that section, a traded company which wishes to be of a kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles on able to call general meetings other than an Annual General dis-applying pre-emption rights most recently published by Meeting on 14 clear days notice must obtain shareholders the UK Pre-Emption Group prior to the date of this Notice.
This aggregate nominal amount represents an additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at The resolution is valid up to the next Annual General Meeting 30 May 2017. of the Company and needs to be renewed annually.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for voting The Directors also confirm their intention to follow the provisions by electronic means under Section 307A of the 2006 Act before of the UK Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of of issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding routine for general meetings, but only where the exibility is treasury shares should not take place without prior consultation merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be to with shareholders, except in connection with an acquisition or the advantage of shareholders as a whole.
specified capital investment as referred to above.
Resolution 20 Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 20 gives the Company authority to buy back its own ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the 2006 Act.
The authority limits the number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of 69,297,206 representing approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 May 2017 and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will expire at the conclusion ofthe next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
