Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Shareholder information Managing your shares online Registered office Shareholders are able to access an electronic version of shareholder Royal Mail plc, 100 Victoria Embankment, London, EC4Y 0HQ information by registering through Shareview, a platform provided by Equiniti, the Companys registrars.
Registered in England and Wales This service allows you to: Company number 08680755 Manage your shares online.
Company Secretary Kulbinder Dosanjh Receive notifications of new shareholder information by e-mail.
Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, Update personal records.
co. uk for full details of the shareholder www.
co. uk services and to register.
When registering, you will need to have Tel: 0371 384 2656 from outside the UK: 44 0 121 415 7086 your 11-digit shareholder reference number to hand, which is found Lines are open 8:30am to 5:30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, on your dividend tax voucher, share certificate or form of proxy.
excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Should you change your mind at a later date, you may amend your request to receive electronic communication by entering your Financial Calendar Shareview portfolio online and amending your preferred method of Trading update 18 July 2017 communication from email to post.
Shareholder fraud Annual General Meeting 20 July 2017 Share scams are often run from boiler rooms where fraudsters cold-call investors offering them worthless, overpriced or even nonEx-dividend date 29 June 2017 existent shares.
While they promise high returns, investors usually end up losing their money.
Record date 30 June 2017 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct Authority FCA about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000.
As Payment date 28 July 2017 much as 200 million is lost in the UK each year.
It is strongly advised that you only deal with financial services firms that are authorised by the FCA.
You can report a firm or scam by contacting the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 or using the reporting form at https: www.
If you have already bought or sold shares through a boiler room, be especially careful as fraudsters are likely to target you again or sell your details to other criminals.
Information for investors Our website provides information for investors, such as trading updates, share price information, AGM and dividend information, shareholder FAQs and results and reports.
The website can be accessed via http: www.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 151 Royal Mail plc | Other information Forward-looking statements Disclaimers This document contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Groups business, financial condition, results of operations and certain of the Groups plans, objectives, assumptions, projections, expectations or beliefs with respect to these items.
Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, will, should, expects, believes, intends, plans, potential, targets, goal or estimates.
Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors, which may cause the Groups actual financial condition, performance and results to differ materially from the plans, goals, objectives and expectations set out in the forward-looking statements included in this document.
Accordingly, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forwardlooking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future and are inherently unpredictable.
Such forward-looking statements should, therefore, be considered in light of various important factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, among other things: changes in the economies and markets in which the Group operates: changes in the regulatory regime within which the Group operates: changes in interest and exchange rates: the impact of competitive products and pricing: the occurrence of major operational problems: the loss of major customers: undertakings and guarantees relating to pension funds: contingent liabilities: the impact of legal or other proceedings against, or which otherwise affect, the Group: and risks associated with the Groups overseas operations.
All written or verbal forward-looking statements, made in this document or made subsequently, which are attributable to the Group or any persons acting on their behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
No assurance can be given that the forward-looking statements in this document will be realised: actual events or results may differ materially as a result of risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Subject to compliance with applicable law and regulation, the Company does not intend to update the forward-looking statements in this document to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document, and does not undertake any obligation to do so.
152 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Royal Mail plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Royal Mail, the cruciform, Parcelforce Worldwide and the Parcelforce Worldwide logo are trade marks of Royal Mail Group Limited.
The GLS arrow logo is a trade mark of General Logistics Systems Germany GmbH & Co. OHG.
Annual Report 2016-17 Royal Mail Group Limited 2016.
