Other disclosures continued The Board considers the system to be financial year.
Under that law, the financial statements, Article 4 of the effective and in accordance with Directors have prepared the group IAS Regulation.
Guidance for Risk Management, Internal financial statements in accordance The Directors are also responsible for Control, and Related Financial and with International Financial Reporting safeguarding the assets of the Group Business reporting which has replaced Standards IFRSs as adopted by the and the Company, and hence for the Turnbull Guidance.
Further European Union and the company taking reasonable steps for the information on the principal internal financial statements in accordance with prevention and detection of fraud controls in use in the Company is to UK Generally Accepted Accounting and other irregularities.
Practice United Kingdom Accounting The Directors are responsible for the Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Going concern and viability Companys website.
Legislation in Disclosure Framework, and applicable After making enquiries, the Directors the United Kingdom governing the law.
Under company law the directors have a reasonable expectation that preparation and dissemination of must not approve the financial the Group has adequate resources to financial statements may differ from statements unless they are satisfied that continue in operational existence for legislation in other jurisdictions.
they give a true and fair view of the state at least one year from the date these of affairs of the Group and the Company The Directors consider that the annual accounts were signed.
For this reason, and of the profit or loss of the Group and report and accounts, taken as a whole, they continue to adopt the going Company for that period.
In preparing is fair, balanced and understandable and concern basis in preparing the financial the financial statements the Directors provides the information necessary for statements.
Directors are also required are required to: shareholders to assess the Group and to provide a broader assessment of Companys performance, business select suitable accounting policies viability over a longer period, which model and strategy.
and then apply them consistently: can be found on page 79.
Each of the Directors, whose names and state whether applicable IFRS as Auditor adopted by the European Union have functions are listed in the Directors  LLP is willing to report confirm that, to the best of been followed for the group financial continue in office as independent auditor statements and United Kingdom their knowledge: of the Company and a resolution to Accounting Standards, comprising the company financial statements, reappoint it will be proposed at the FRS 101, have been followed for the which have been prepared in forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
company financial statements, subject accordance with United Kingdom to any material departures disclosed Disclosure of relevant Generally Accepted Accounting and explained in the financial Practice United Kingdom Accounting audit information statements: Standards, comprising FRS 101 So far as the Directors who are in office make judgements and accounting Reduced Disclosure Framework, at the time of the approval of this report estimates that are reasonable and and applicable law, give a true and fair are aware, there is no relevant audit prudent: and view of the assets, liabilities, financial information namely, information needed prepare the financial statements on position and profit of the Company: by the Companys auditor in connection the going concern basis, unless it is the group financial statements, which with the preparation of its auditors inappropriate to presume that the have been prepared in accordance report of which the auditor is unaware.
Group and Company will continue with IFRSs as adopted by the European Each such Director has taken all steps in business.
Union, give a true and fair view of the that he or she ought to have taken as assets, liabilities, financial position and a Director in order to make himself or The Directors are responsible for keeping profit of the Group: and herself aware of any relevant audit adequate accounting records that are information and to establish that the the Directors report includes a fair sufficient to show and explain the Group auditor is aware of that information.
and Companys transactions and disclose review of the development and performance of the business and the with reasonable accuracy at any time the Directors responsibility statement financial position of the Group and the position of the Group and Company, The Directors are responsible for together with a description of the Company, and enable them to ensure preparing the Annual Report and the that the Groups financial statements principal risks and uncertainties that financial statements in accordance it faces.
and the Directors Remuneration with applicable law and regulation.
report comply with the Companies Company law requires the Directors to Act 2006 and, as regards the Group prepare financial statements for each 140 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 140 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 In the case of each Director in office Mike Turner Chairman at the date the Directors report Archie Bethel Chief Executive is approved: Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director so far as the director is aware, there is Bill Tame Chief Executive, Global Growth and Operations no relevant audit information of which John Davies Chief Executive, Land the Group and Companys auditors are Sir David Omand Non-Executive Director unaware: and Ian Duncan Non-Executive Director they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in Anna Stewart Non-Executive Director order to make themselves aware of Jeff Randall Non-Executive Director any relevant audit information and Myles Lee Non-Executive Director to establish that the Group and Prof. Victoire fide Margerie Non-Executive Director Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Approval of the Strategic report and the Directors report Each of the Directors listed below being The Strategic report and the Directors report pages 1 to 141 for the year ending the Board of Directors at the date of 31 March 2017 have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: this Annual Report and these financial statements confirms that to the best Mike Turner CBE of his or her knowledge: Chairman the Group financial statements set out on pages 150 to 202 which have 23 May 2017 been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group taken as a whole: and the Strategic report and Directors report contained on pages 1 to 141 include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
In addition, each of the Directors listed below considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position, performance, business model and strategy.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 141 Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC 144 Group income statement 150 Group statement of comprehensive income 151 Group statement of changes in equity 151 Group balance sheet 152 Group cash flow statement 153 Notes to the Group financial statements 154 Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC 203 Company balance sheet 205 Company statement of changes in equity 206 Notes to the Company financial statements 207 Other information Shareholder information 212 Fiveyear financial record 213 Increasing returns to shareholders Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 142 Radiometric Physics is all about measuring and detecting radiation.
My work involves designing and deploying assay systems, modelling data, and interpreting the data in a useful way.
Some really exciting work goes on here, and Ive had the opportunity to contribute to some fantastic and innovative projects.
On top of being a Radiometric Physicist, I am a STEM Ambassador for Babcock.
I visit schools, participating in activities, giving career talks and talking to some of our young engineers and scientiststobe.
The important thing for me is getting young people excited about STEM subjects, and showing that there are fascinating careers accessible to everyone.
The diversity of Ambassadors at these events is a brilliant way to break down perceptions about what it means to be an engineer or a scientist.
Sarah Calvert Radiometric Physicist Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 143 Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC Report on the Group financial statements Our opinion In our opinion, Babcock International Group PLCs Group financial statements the financial statements :  give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended:  have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and  have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Accounts the Annual Report comprise:  the Group balance sheet as at 31 March 2017:  the Group income statement and Group statement of comprehensive income for the year then ended:  the Group cash flow statement for the year then ended:  the Group statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and  the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality  Overall Group materiality: 24.0 million 2016: 22.5 million which represents 5% of profit before tax, adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Audit scope  We conducted our audit work over the complete financial information for 25 of the largest and highest risk reporting components located in the UK, Europe and South Africa.
 In addition, we performed specific audit procedures at one further reporting component, and on the Groups share of the results of five joint ventures, selected based on their relative materiality.
 Where the operating businesses were located outside the UK, we worked together with our network firms located in the relevant territory to make sure we had sufficient evidence upon which to base our audit opinion.
 Taken together, our audit work covers 78% of Group revenue and 74% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles on an absolute basis.
Areas of focus  Contract accounting and revenue recognition.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 144 144 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 The scope of our audit and our areas of focus We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the Directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We read the relevant clauses within new and amended key contracts and Contract accounting and revenue recognition discussed each with management to obtain a full understanding of the specific Refer to note 1 to the Group financial statements, terms and risks, which informed our consideration as to whether revenue and and to the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on profit for these contracts was appropriately recognised.
The Groups business involves entering into contractual We evaluated and tested the relevant IT systems and tested the operating relationships with customers to provide a range of effectiveness of internal controls over the accuracy and timing of revenue services with a significant proportion of the Groups recognised in the financial statements, including: revenues and profits derived from long term contracts.
 detailed contract reviews performed by management and reviewed at both Due to the contracting nature of the business, revenue Group and divisional level, which included estimating total costs, stage of recognition involves a significant degree of judgement completion of contracts, profit margin and evaluating contract profitability: and estimates including to: and  transactional controls that underpin the production of underlying contract  estimate the total contract costs: related cost balances, including the purchase to pay and payroll cycles.
 estimate the stage of completion of the contract: Our testing of the controls did not identify any matters that caused us to  forecast the profit margin after taking consideration change our audit approach.
of additional revenue relating to cost and time completion incentive targets: and For the more significant and judgemental contracts, we:  appropriately provide for loss making contracts.
 attended managements contract review meetings, and, through discussions with the contract project teams, we obtained an understanding of the There is a broad range of acceptable outcomes performance and status of the contracts: resulting from these estimates and judgements that  corroborated managements positions through the examination of externally could lead to different revenue and profit being generated evidence, such as customer correspondence: reported in the financial statements.
 discussed and understood managements estimates for total contract costs and forecast costs to complete, including taking into account the historical accuracy of such estimates: and  compared managements position on the recognition of any cost and time completion incentive target amounts to the actual costs incurred and current progress of the contract.
Our testing did not identify any factors that management had not taken into account in their estimates of the total contract costs, stage of completion and expected profit margin of each contract including the expected losses on loss making contracts.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 145 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus We evaluated managements future cash flow forecasts and the Goodwill impairment process by which they were determined and approved, including Refer to note 10 to the Group financial statements and to the confirming that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 94. approved budgets and confirming the mathematical accuracy of The goodwill balance of 2,608 million 2016: 2,551 million, the underlying calculations.
We also considered the accuracy of which principally relates to the acquisitions of the VT Group in previous forecasts made by management.
2010 and Avincis now MCS in 2015, is subject to an annual We obtained corroborating evidence regarding the carrying value impairment review.
No impairment charge has been recorded of goodwill, and the related disclosures, through challenging key against these balances in the current financial year.
assumptions including: The value in use assessment to support the continued carrying  growth rates in the cash flow forecasts by comparing them to amount of goodwill involves the application of subjective historical results, and economic forecasts: and judgement about future business performance.
Certain  the discount rates by independently estimating a range based assumptions made by management in the impairment review are on market data.
considered by the engagement team to be key areas of judgement, including the forecast cash flows, the overall growth rates and the We performed sensitivity analysis around the key drivers of the cash discount rates applied.
Having ascertained the extent of change in those assumptions that either individually, or collectively would be required for the impairment to arise, we considered the likelihood of such a movement occurring.
Our work supported managements assessment that there was no material impairment.
For those assets where the Directors determined that no impairment was required and that no additional sensitivity disclosures were necessary, we found that these judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions that would require significant downside changes before any additional material impairment was necessary.
Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus Defined benefit pension liabilities We assessed, using our actuarial specialists, whether the assumptions used in calculating the pension plan liabilities, Refer to note 24 to the Group financial statements, and to the including salary increases, inflation, mortality rate and discount Report of the Audit and Risk Committee on page 94. rate assumptions, were consistent with our internally developed The Group operates a number of defined benefit pension plans, benchmarks based on national and industry data.
We were satisfied giving rise to net and gross pension liabilities of 105 million that the rates used fell within acceptable ranges.
2016: 203 million and 4,781 million 2016: 4,028 million respectively, which are significant in the context of the overall We also performed sample testing to agree underlying membership data to supporting human resources documentation and assessed balance sheet of the Group.
the appropriateness of the closing liability based on known The valuation of pension liabilities requires judgement and movements and assumptions.
No issues were identified which technical expertise in choosing appropriate assumptions, and raised concerns over the valuation of the Groups pension liability.
management engages external actuarial specialists to assist them in selecting appropriate assumptions and calculate the liability.
Inappropriate selections of assumptions or methodologies for calculating the pension liability could result in a material difference in the value of the liability.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 146 146 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 How we tailored the audit scope We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
During the period the Group was primarily structured and monitored across four divisions, being Marine and Technology, Defence and Security, Support Services and International.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of multiple reporting components, including both operating businesses and central functions.
The Groups reporting components vary significantly in size and we identified 25 components that, in our view, required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size and risk.
Specific risk-based audit procedures were performed at one further reporting component and over the Groups share of the results of five joint ventures.
In scope reporting components and joint ventures were based in several jurisdictions including the UK, Spain, Italy, Canada and South Africa.
We sent detailed instructions to all component audit teams, which included communication of the areas of focus above and other required communications, and we held an audit planning workshop in London attended by component teams as well as regular meetings with the teams throughout the year.
In addition the Engagement Leader and senior members of the Group team undertook visits to two components in the UK during the audit, including the Groups only financially significant component, Devonport.
Senior team members also attended all four of the divisional audit clearance meetings in person.
During both the site visits and the clearance meetings, the findings reported to the Group team by the component teams were discussed and any further work required by the Group audit team was then performed by the component audit team.
This, together with additional procedures performed at the Group level including audit procedures over material head office entities, pensions, impairment assessments, financial statement disclosure, tax, treasury, share based payments and consolidation adjustments, gave us the evidence we needed for our opinion on the Group financial statements as a whole.
Materiality The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: 24.0 million 2016: 22.5 million.
Overall Group materiality How we determined it 5% of profit before tax adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles.
Rationale for benchmark applied Given the contractual nature of the business, and consistent with last year, we adjusted for amortisation of acquired intangibles as this better reflects the true underlying performance and nature of operations.
When a business is acquired the full value of contractual relationships is fair valued and included on balance sheet as intangible assets, representing the future profitability of the contracts.
For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that is less than our Component materiality overall Group materiality.
The range of materiality allocated across components was between 20.0 million and 1.0 million.
We agreed with the Audit and Risk Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 1.2 million 2016: 1.0 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
Going Concern Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement, set out on page 140, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the Directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or draw attention to.
As noted in the Directors statement, the Directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit we have concluded that the Directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 147 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 147 Financial statements continued Independent auditors report to the members of Babcock International Group PLC continued Other required reporting Consistency of other information and compliance with applicable requirements Companies Act 2006 reporting In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:  the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and  the Strategic report and the Directors report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAs UK & Ireland reporting Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:  information in the Annual Report is: We have no exceptions  materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or to report.
 apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or  otherwise misleading.
 the statement given by the Directors on page 141, in accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate We have no Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report taken as a whole to be fair, balanced exceptions and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and to report.
performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
 the section of the Annual Report on page 95, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of We have no the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
The Directors assessment of the prospects of the Group and of the principal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to:  the Directors confirmation on page 79 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the We have nothing Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those material to add or to that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
 the disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed We have nothing or mitigated.
material to add or to draw attention to.
 the Directors explanation on page 79 of the Annual Report, in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the Code, We have nothing as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they material to add or to consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation draw attention to.
that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the Directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the Directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
Adequacy of information and explanations received Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 148 148 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Directors remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
Corporate governance statement Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit Our responsibilities and those of the Directors As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 140, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
What an audit of financial statements involves An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of:  whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed:  the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and  the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the Directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements, and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic report and Directors report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Babcock International Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Nicholas Campbell-Lambert Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 149 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149
