166 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GLOSSARY CONTINUED Other definitions which have not been identified as non IFRS GAAP alternative performance measures are as follows: TERM SHORT FORM DEFINITION AIFMD The EU Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
Assets under management AUM Value of all funds and assets managed by the FMC.
During the investment period third party external AUM is measured on the basis of committed capital.
Once outside the investment period third party AUM is measured on the basis of cost of investment.
AUM is presented in Euros, with non Euro denominated at the period end closing rate.
Catch up fees Fees charged to investors who commit to a fund after its first close.
This has the impact of backdating their commitment thereby aligning all investors in the fund.
Closed end fund A fund where investors commitments are fixed for the duration of the fund and the fund has a defined investment period.
Co-investment Co-invest A direct investment made alongside or in a fund taking a pro-rata share of all instruments.
Collateralised Debt Obligation CDO Investment grade security backed by a pool of non mortgage based bonds, loans and other assets.
Collateralised Loan Obligation CLO CLO is a type of CDO, which is backed by a portfolio of loans.
Close A stage in fundraising whereby a fund is able to release or draw down the capital contractually committed at that date.
Direct investment funds Funds which invest in self-originated transactions for which there is a low volume, inactive secondary market.
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT Special purpose vehicle used to purchase ICG plc shares which are used to satisfy share options and awards granted under the Groups employee share schemes.
Financial Conduct Authority FCA Regulates conduct by both retail and wholesale financial services firms in provision of services to consumers.
Financial Reporting Council FRC UKs independent regulator responsible for promoting high quality corporate governance and reporting.
Fund Management Company FMC The Groups fund management business, which sources and manages investments on behalf of the IC and third party funds.
HMRC HM Revenue & Customs, the UK tax authority.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Illiquid assets Asset classes which are not actively traded.
Internal Capital Adequacy ICAAP The ICAAP allows companies to assess the level of capital that adequately Assessment Process supports all relevant current and future risks in their business.
Investment Company IC The Investment Company invests the Groups capital in support of third party fundraising and funds the development of new strategies.
Internal Rate of Return IRR The annualised return received by an investor in a fund.
It is calculated from cash drawn from and returned to the investor together with the residual value of the asset.
Key Man Certain funds have designated Key Men.
The departure of a Key Man without adequate replacement triggers a contractual right for investors to cancel their commitments.
Key performance indicator KPI A business metric used to evaluate factors that are crucial to the success of an organisation.
Key risk indicator KRI A measure used to indicate how risky an activity is.
It is an indicator of the possibility of future adverse impact.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 167 TERM SHORT FORM DEFINITION Liquid assets Asset classes with an active, established market in which assets may be readily bought and sold.
Open ended fund A fund which remains open to new commitments and where an investors commitment may be redeemed with appropriate notice.
Payment in kind PIK Also known as rolled up interest.
PIK is the interest accruing on a loan until maturity or refinancing, without any cash flows until that time.
Performance fees Carry Share of profits that the fund manager is due once it has returned the cost of investment and agreed preferred return to investors.
Realisation The return of invested capital in the form of principal, rolled up interest and or capital gain.
Securitisation A form of financial structuring whereby a pool of assets is used as security collateral for the issue of new financial instruments.
Senior debt Senior debt ranks ahead of mezzanine and equity.
Total AUM The aggregate of the third party external AUM and the Investment Companys balance sheet.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Code Sets out standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability and relations with shareholders.
UNPRI UN Principles for Responsible Investing.
Weighted average An average in which each quantity to be averaged is assigned a weight.
These weightings determine the relative importance of each quantity on the average.
168 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SHAREHOLDER AND COMPANY INFORMATION TIMETABLE EVENT Date Ex dividend date 15 June 2017 Record date for financial year 2017 final ordinary dividend 16 June 2017 Last date for dividend reinvestment election 14 July 2017 AGM 25 July 2017 Payment of ordinary dividend 4 August 2017 Half year results announcement for the six months to 30 September 2017 14 November 2017 COMPANY INFORMATION Stockbrokers Registrars JPMorgan Cazenove Computershare Investor Services PLC 25 Bank Street PO Box 92 Canary Wharf The Pavilions London Bridgwater Road E14 5JP Bristol BS99 7NH Numis Securities Limited The London Stock Exchange Building Registered office 10 Paternoster Square Juxon House London 100 St Pauls Churchyard EC4M 7LT London EC4M 8BU Auditor Deloitte LLP Company registration number Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor 02234775 2 New Street Square London EC4A 3BZ WEBSITE The Companys website address is www.
com Copies of the Annual and Interim Reports and other information about the Company are available on this site.
Design and production Radley Yeldar | www.
