Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Accountability Chairmans introduction The role of the Audit Committee is Audit Committee report to review and report to the Board on financial reporting, internal control and risk management and the performance, independence and effectiveness of the external auditors and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial reporting process and scrutinises the full and half year financial statements before proposing them to the Board for approval.
Rosalyn Wilton Chairman, This year the Committee has continued Audit Committee to focus on risk management and The Audit Committee continues to play a key oversight and assurance role, has undertaken a comprehensive assisting the Board and ensuring shareholder interests are protected by review ofprincipal risks and the monitoring the processes that support financial reporting and the activities internal control framework.
It has of management andexternal auditors.
challenged the significant accounting judgements made by management, including those concerning the Members of the Committee valuation of investmentproperty in light of the economic and political Date Tenure Meetings uncertainties arising from the EU Member appointed years attended Referendum and triggering of Article Rosalyn Wilton 25 3 2014 3 5 5 50 and the forthcoming UK election.
The Committee has also scrutinised Andrew Livingston 31 5 2016 1 5 5 the processes in place to ensure that Andrew Varley 25 1 2013 4 5 5 the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
Alec Pelmore 25 1 2013 4 5 5 The disclosure and explanation of Charles Cayzer 1 10 2010 n a 2 2 alternative performance measures retired 30 September 2016 has been considered in accordance Bracketed numbers indicate the number of meetings the member was eligible to attend.
with FRC and ESMA Guidelines Tenure is measured from date of appointment to the Committee and as at 31March2017, published in the year along with the rounded to the nearest whole year.
2016 amendments to the UK Corporate Governance Code regarding the relevant sector competence of the Areas of focus this year Audit Committee.
Ongoing review of risk management and internal control, going concern It has also considered the andviability independence and effectiveness Fair, balanced and understandable statement and presentation of the external audit process and ofalternative performance measures has recommended that Deloitte be Gaining assurance around the valuation process reappointed at the AGM in July.
As part of this process it considered the rotation Legislative changes on sector competence of Audit Committee next year of the lead audit partner Reviewed and refreshed policy for non audit services and has reviewed the policy governing Rotation of audit partner the provision of non audit services, establishing and clarifying guidelines forany such appointments.
The Committee has considered the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code concerning going concern and viability and has advised the Board on the statement made in the Risk management section of this report on page 41.
It has also confirmed to the Board that there are adequate processes and internal controls in place to ensure the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable and tomake itsstatement on page 111.
76 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability continued Activities during2017 During the year, the work undertaken by the Committee has included the consideration, review and approval ofthe following: Financial reporting Risk management External audit Interim and year end results Annual assessment of the Scope of the external announcement and Annual Groupsprincipal and audit plan Report emergingrisks, appetite, risk register The independence, objectivity and and dashboard Accounting treatment of significant tenure of Deloitte LLP transactions and areas of judgement IT and cyber risk review Performance of the external auditor which could have a material impact The adequacy and effectiveness of and effectiveness of the audit on the financial statements the Groups internal control and risk process Processes undertaken to ensure that management systems Evaluation of key audit findings the financial statements are fair, The appropriateness of the going Auditors fee proposal balanced and understandable concern assumption and the level Reappointment of external auditor Use of alternative performance ofstress testing undertaken Rotation of audit partner measures and disclosure in the The Viability statement AnnualReport Policy on provision of non audit services Audit Committee report Group tax strategy Property valuation Other The property valuation process Committees relevant sector competence andthe appropriateness of Committees own terms of reference, constitution and performance theinterimand year end individual The need for an internal audit function valuations The Groups whistle blowing arrangements The independence and competence of the external valuers businesses.
Andrew Livingston adds meetings, the Chairman has regular Membership to the existing skill set of members, contact and meetings with the The Committee continues to comprise bringing current retail and ecommerce audit partner.
four Non Executive Directors, chaired experience as Chief Executive of by Rosalyn Wilton.
Andrew Livingston The May and November meetings are Screwx, a leading online retailer.
was appointed to the Committee and scheduled to precede the approval Board as a Non Executive Director Biographies of the Committee and issue of the full and half year on 31 May 2016.
Charles Cayzer members which set out the relevant financial reports.
Separate meetings retired from the Committee and knowledge and sector relevant are held with the Companys Board on 30 September 2016, experience they bring can be found property valuers to challenge having served as a Non Executive onpages 60 and 61. the valuation process and review Director of the Company for over their independence.
Members have no day to Meetings meeting, the Committee reviewed day involvement with the Company The Committee follows an annual risk management and internal control orlinkswith the external auditor.
programme to ensure it gives full processes and considered the year consideration to matters of particular end audit plan.
It also considered The Board is satisfied that Rosalyn Wilton importance and its terms of reference.
a paper from the Finance Director brings recent and relevant financial on IT and cyber risk and the risk experience as required by the UK The Committee met five times last management processes in place.
Corporate Governance Code as a year, with meetings aligned to the former Chairman of the Risk Committee Companys financial reporting The Chairman of the Committee at AXA UK Limited.
Meetings are attended reports to the Board on the matters accordance with the 2016 Corporate by the Committee members and, considered and conclusions reached Governance Code which becomes by invitation, the Groups external after each Committee meeting.
mandatory for the Company next year, auditor, independent property valuers The Committee is satisfied that it the Board considers that all Committee CBRE Ltd and Savills Advisory Services receives sufficient, reliable and members have the expertise and Limited, the Finance Director and timely information and support from relevant competency required in senior management.
Time is allocated management and the Companys the sectors in which the Company for the Committee to meet the external auditor to allow it to full operates to discharge their duties, as external auditor and property valuers its obligations.
they all hold or have previously held independently of management.
senior positions in related and relevant In addition to formal Committee Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Financial reporting and Further details can be found in note 1 After reviewing reports from management and following its significant judgements tothe financial statements.
discussions with the auditor and The Committee monitors the integrity The Committee has considered a valuers, the Committee is satisfied of the financial information published number of other judgements made that the key financial judgements and in the interim and annual statements by management, none of which were estimates have been appropriately and considers the extent to which material in the context of the Groups and adequately addressed by the suitable accounting policies have results or net assets.
These included Executive Directors, reviewed by the been adopted, consistently applied judgements concerning the external auditor and reported in these and disclosed.
recoverability of financial assets and financial statements.
the valuation of derivative instruments.
It pays particular attention to matters The Committee is also satisfied that the it considers to be important by virtue Management confirmed that they processes used to determine the value of their size, complexity, level of were not aware of any material of the assets and liabilities have been judgement and potential impact on the misstatements and the auditor appropriately reviewed, challenged financial statements and remuneration.
confirmed they had not found any and are sufficiently robust.
The significant matters considered by material misstatements in the course the Committee, discussed with the oftheir work.
external auditor and addressed during the year are set out in the table below.
significant matter considered Committees approach All of the Groups investment properties and those held in joint ventures are externally Property valuations valued by two independent property valuers, CBRE and Savills.
The property valuation is a critical and significant part of the Groups reported The Committee met twice during the year with the property valuers, as part of the performance being the largest item on interim and year end reporting process, to challenge and assess the integrity of the the balance sheet.
valuation process, methodologies and outcomes.
It is a key determinant of the Groups The key judgements applied to each property valuation and any issues raised or profitability, net asset value and total disagreements with management were considered and discussed, to ensure that property return and is therefore a key undue inuence had not been placed on the valuation process and the valuers area of focus.
This year the Committee was mindful of the political and economic uncertainty Property valuations are inherently associated with the EU Referendum and the UK election.
It considered the impact subjective as they are based on on the investment and occupier markets and the lower volumes of transactional assumptions made by the external evidence available to support and substantiate certain property valuations.
valuers which are underpinned by recent market transactions and may Future rental growth and yield assumptions were challenged and supporting notprove to be accurate.
market evidence was provided to enable the Committee to benchmark assets andconclude that the assumptions applied were appropriate.
For further details on property valuationsrefer to notes 1 and 9 Any valuation which required a greater level of judgement, for example ofthenancial statements.
development assets, and any valuation movements that were not broadly in line with the IPD benchmark were scrutinised.
The Committee discussed with the valuers the impact on values of committed expenditure on developments, letting assumptions, vacant space, rent free periods and lease incentives.
As part of their audit work, Deloitte use valuation specialists to assess and challenge the valuation approach, assumptions and judgements.
They meet independently with the valuers and report their findings and conclusions to the Committee.
Revenue recognition The Committee considered the timing of recognising rental income arising on Certain transactions include unusual pre-let developments at Leicester, Liverpool, Wakeeld and Warrington that or complex adjustments to revenue completed in the year and concluded that it was appropriately recognised from the and require management to make commencement of the lease.
It also considered the accounting for rent free periods judgements as to whether, and to what and lease inducements including those to Amazon and Eddie Stobart.
extent, revenue should be recognised The Committee received and assessed reports from the external auditor on the inthe year.
timing of revenue recognition for property and lease transactions completing in the year, lease incentives and surrender payments and considered consistency There is a risk of overstatement or ofaccounting treatment with previous years.
deferral of income in order to meet performance and remuneration targets.
The Committee considered the options available, challenged the judgements made and were satisfied that revenue had been appropriately recognised in thenancial statements.
78 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability continued significant matter considered Committees approach significant transactions significant property acquisitions and disposals were reviewed by the Committee During the year, the Group transacted tothe extent that there were unusual terms and conditions of judgement in on318 million of property.
The Committee, in conjunction with the external auditor, received and challenged Some transactions were large and managements accounting proposals in relation to: complex and required management to make judgements in determining The corporate disposal of the Groups retail park in Newry and distribution whether a transaction represented warehouse in Warrington, both of which were considered in substance a business combination under tobeproperty disposals IFRS3, whena transaction should The timing of recognition of acquisitions and disposals on unconditional exchange be recognised and the fair value of contracts rather than completion, including the disposal of Alban Retail Park ofconsideration.
in Bedford which was accounted for as a disposal in the year with completion deferred until post year end The timing of the disposal of the distribution unit in Warrington where the occupier exercised its option to purchase The Committee concurred with the approach adopted by management ineachcase.
Presentation of information The Group equity accounts for its three joint venture operations as required The Group operates through a number byaccounting standards.
Its share of profit after tax and net assets is reected in the of joint ventures which are monitored financial statements as one line in each of the income statement and balancesheet.
by management on a proportionately However, management monitors the business on a proportionately consolidated consolidated basis but are required basis and uses EPRA performance measures which reect the recurring performance under accounting standards to be of the Groups property rental business.
The gures and commentary presented in the equityaccounted.
Finance review section of the Strategic report on pages 34 to 39 are consistent with this approach.
Reconciliations between the management and statutory bases are EPRA performances measures are provided in note 8 to the financial statements and in the Supplementary Information presented as KPIs and elsewhere within section.
this report in line with other public real estate companies to highlight the The Committee has reviewed the prominence given to statutory and alternative recurring performance of the Group performance measures and has concluded that sufficient disclosure, explanation and reconciliations are provided.
It believes the approach adopted provides the most useful analysis of the years results.
REIT status Failure to comply would result in tax charges and penalties that would have The Group must comply with the asignicant impact on the Groups results.
UKREIT regulations to benefit from The Committee reviews compliance with the REIT tests which are reported on as thefavourable tax regime.
part of the quarterly report presented by the Finance Director to the Board and concluded that there was full compliance and significant headroom for the currentyear.
Going concern and viability The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the going concern assumption in The Companys ongoing solvency the preparation of these financial statements and whether the business was viable and liquidity is a critical risk to its future inaccordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
viability and the appropriateness of It considered the quarterly reports presented by the Finance Director to the Board preparation of the Group financial which included the Groups three year profit and cash ow forecasts, committed statements.
and undrawn debt facilities and expected headroom under the financial covenants in those facilities.
The Boards assessment of going concernis on page 110 and its The Committee reviewed managements assumptions about the principle risks Viabilitystatement is on page 41. facing the Group, future trading performance, rental income growth, valuation projections, capital expenditure, funding requirements and gearing levels.
Itconsidered the amount of stress testing undertaken and the appropriateness ofthethree year assessment period.
In light of this review, the Committee confirmed to the Board that it was appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis and that there was a reasonable expectation that the Company would be able to continue in operation over the three year viability period.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 The Committee recognises the External audit The table below sets out the ratio of importance of auditor objectivity non audit to audit fees for each of Deloitte LLP was appointed as external and independence and understands the past three years.
The three year auditor following a formal tender that this could be compromised by average ratio of non audit fees to audit process in 2013.
Current UK regulations the provision of non audit services.
fees is less than 1%, supporting the require rotation of the lead audit This year it has reviewed and refreshed Committees conclusion that Deloitte partner every five years, a formal the Companys policy governing remains independent and that the tender of the auditor every ten years the provision of non audit services in level on non audit fees is not material.
and a change of auditor every 20 light of legislative changes including years.
The lead partner, Claire Faulkner, Deloitte has confirmed to the the 2016 update to the UK Corporate who has held office for the past four Audit Committee that they remain Governance Code, Guidance years, will be stepping down following independent and have maintained on Audit Committees and the the conclusion of this years audit and internal safeguards to ensure the FRCs Ethical Standard for Auditors.
Georgina Robb has been appointed as objectivity of the engagement It took into account the fact that all her successor.
Georgina has shadowed partner and audit staff is not impaired.
taxation services and remuneration the audit partner and team this year.
They have also confirmed that they advice is provided separately by have internal procedures in place to The Committee has assessed the PwC and corporate due diligence identify any aspects of non audit work performance, independence, objectivity andliquidation work is undertaken which could compromise their role as and fees of the external auditor byBDO LLP.
auditors and to ensure the objectivity through discussions with the Finance However, the Companys policy oftheir audit report.
Director and senior management recognises that there may be certain team and through a review of Having undertaken its review, in the circumstances where, due to Deloittes the audit deliverables.
In addition opinion of the Audit Committee, the expertise and knowledge of the the Committee Chairman meets 2017 audit was appropriately planned, Company or real estate sector, it is independently with the Audit Partner executed and of a high quality, there appropriate for them to undertake on a regular basis throughout the year.
continues to be a good working nonaudit work.
relationship between management In making its assessment, the Committee A thorough assessment of each case is and Deloitte, who remain independent considers the qualications, expertise undertaken by the Executive Directors and objective.
and resources of the audit partner who observe the following guidelines: and team as well as the quality and It has recommended to the Board timeliness of the audit deliverables.
Pre approval of fees by the Executive that a resolution is proposed at the It reviewed the extent to which the audit Directors up to a limit of 100,000 or forthcoming AGM to reappoint plan was met, the level of independent referral to the Audit Committee for Deloitte LLP as the Companys challenge and scrutiny applied to the review and approval andGroups auditor.
audit and the depth of understanding Proposed arrangements to maintain The Company has complied with of key accounting judgements.
auditor independence the provisions of the Statutory Audit It considered the interaction with and Services for Large Companies Market feedback from senior management Conrmation from the auditors that Investigation Mandatory Use of in the audit process, focusing on the they are acting independently Competitive Tender Processes and early identication and resolution of Certain services are prohibited from Audit Committee Responsibilities issues and judgements and the quality being undertaken by the external Order2014 during the year.
and timely provision of draft accounts auditors including bookkeeping, for review.
The results of the audit preparing financial statements, debrief meeting held between senior design and implementation of management and the audit team financial information systems, are relayed to the Audit Committee valuation, remuneration and along with any areas identied legal services for improvement.
Audit and non audit fees to Deloitte Year to 31 March 2017 2016 2015 000 000 000 Audit fees including related 179 179 183 assuranceservices Non audit fees 2 Total 179 179 185 Ratio of non audit fees to audit fees n a n a 1% Audit fees paid to the external auditor in respect of joint ventures totalled 17,000 at share 2016:17,000 at share.
80 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accountability continued The Audit Committee carries out an Short term cash ow forecasting Risk management annual review of the risk register and that is considered weekly by the and internal controls reports its findings to the Board.
The risk Executive Committee The Board is ultimately responsible register was last updated in February for establishing and maintaining An integrated financial and property 2017 and presented to the Audit the Groups framework of risk management system Committee at their planning meeting management and internal control in March.
The risk register identies An organisational structure with and for determining the nature and the following for each key strategic, clearly dened roles, responsibilities extent of the principal risks it is willing to economic, transactional and financial and limits of authority that take to achieve its strategic objectives.
risk facing the business: facilitates effective and efficient It recognises that risk is inherent in decision making running the business and understands Signicance and probability that effective risk management is ofeach risk Close involvement of the Executive critical to the decision making process Directors in day to day operations Controls and safeguards in place and ultimate success of the Group.
including regular meetings tomanage and minimise each risk with senior management on all The risk framework and processes Movements in the Groups exposure operational aspects of the business in place to identify, evaluate and to the risk since thelast review manage the principal risks and Disciplined monthly meetings uncertainties facing the Group are Allocated owner of the risk and of the Executive, Investment, described in the Risk management management of safeguards Asset Management and section on pages 40 to 47.
Finance Committees A key part of the risk management The system is designed to give the process is the identication and The maintenance of a risk register Board confidence thatthe risks assessment of risks which is the and quarterly risk dashboard are managed or mitigated as far responsibility of the Executive highlighting movements in as possible.
However, it should be Committee assisted by senior principal and emerging risks noted that no system can eliminate management.
Short reporting lines andmitigation strategies the risk of failure to achieve the and operating from one office ensures A formal whistle blowing policy Groups objectives entirely and can the Executive Directors have close only provide reasonable but not involvement in day to day matters The requirement for a dedicated absolute assurance against material allowing early identication of risks and internal audit function was reviewed misstatement orloss.
by the Audit Committee during the year and was not felt to be necessary The Board undertakes a robust The Audit Committee monitors and or appropriate given the size and assessment of the principal and reviews the effectiveness of the structure of the Group, the close day emerging risks facing the business at Groups internal controls.
It receives to day involvement of the Executive each meeting and has adopted a risk an annual internal control evaluation Directors and the internal control dashboard as a standing agenda item questionnaire which is completed by procedures in place.
This is kept which highlights changes in the Groups senior management and other reports underregular review.
exposure tocurrent and emerging risks provided by the external auditor.
Based on its review and assessment, the The key elements of the Groups Audit Committee is satisfied that there The Board has delegated responsibility internal control framework are are no material weaknesses in the for reviewing the effectiveness of the asfollows: Groups internal control structure and risk management framework and A dened schedule of matters an effective risk management system internal control environment and reserved for the Boards attention is in place, and has reported these compliance with the Code to the findings to the Board.
A documented appraisal and that risks were properly categorised, approval process for allsignicant understood and acted upon capital expenditure if necessary.
A comprehensive and robust system of financial budgeting, forecasting and reporting Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 In addition, the Committee considered Fair, balanced and understandable whether the Annual Report had been At the request of the Board, the Audit written in straightforward language, Committee considered whether the without unnecessary repetition and 2017 Annual Report and Accounts was theuse of any alternative performance fair, balanced and understandable measures had been adequately and whether it provided the necessary explained and reconciled to the information for shareholders to assess financial statements.
the Groups position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the The Directors statement on fair, Annual Report and Accounts met balanced and understandable is on this requirement.
page 111 and their findings can be summarised as follows: In reaching this decision the Committee scrutinised the procedures in place Fair and adopted by management in the Includes relevant transactions preparation of the Annual Report, andbalances which included the following: Includes required regulatory The establishment of a team of senior disclosures managers drawn from finance, investor relations and property with Balanced clear responsibilities for preparation Consistent throughout and review of relevant sections of Appropriate mix of statutory and the report  measures Regular team meetings were held Alternative measures explained during the drafting stages to ensure Understandable consistency of tone and message, balanced content and appropriate Straight forward language linking of the various sections Lack of repetition Regulatory and technical updates Use of diagrams and charts were provided by and discussed Clear cross references and links with the external auditor as part Clear contents pages to of a technical brieng workshop aidnavigation attended by relevant staff in February 2017 The Chief Executive provided early input to and agreed the overall message and tone of the report The Executive Directors were closely Rosalyn Wilton Chairman of the Audit Committee involved in the initial drafting process 31 May 2017 and reviewed their respective draft sections An extensive verication exercise was undertaken to ensure factual accuracy The final draft report was reviewed by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Finance Director and senior management before being presented for Board approval
