ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 113 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In the light of the knowledge and This report is made solely to the companys Our duty to read other information understanding of the company and its in the Annual Report members, as a body, in accordance with environment obtained in the course of the Under International Standards on Auditing Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act audit, we have not identified any material UK and Ireland, we are required to report 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken misstatements in the Strategic Report and to you if, in our opinion, information in the so that we might state to the companys the Directors Report.
annual report is: members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and materially inconsistent with the information MATTERS ON WHICH WE for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in the audited financial statements: or ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT permitted by law, we do not accept or apparently materially incorrect based BY EXCEPTION assume responsibility to anyone other than on, or materially inconsistent with, our the company and the companys members Adequacy of explanations received and knowledge of the Group acquired in the as a body, for our audit work, for this report, accounting records course of performing our audit: or or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are otherwise misleading.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE In particular, we are required to we have not received all the information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS consider whether we have identified any and explanations we require for our An audit involves obtaining evidence about inconsistencies between our knowledge audit: or the amounts and disclosures in the financial acquired during the audit and the directors adequate accounting records have not statements sufficient to give reasonable statement that they consider the annual been kept by the parent company, or assurance that the financial statements are report is fair, balanced and understandable returns adequate for our audit have not free from material misstatement, whether and whether the annual report appropriately been received from branches not visited caused by fraud or error.
This includes an discloses those matters that we by us: or assessment of: whether the accounting communicated to the audit committee which the parent company financial statements policies are appropriate to the Groups we consider should have been disclosed.
are not in agreement with the accounting and the parent companys circumstances We confirm that we have not records and returns.
and have been consistently applied and identified any such inconsistencies adequately disclosed: the reasonableness We have nothing to report in respect or misleading statements.
of significant accounting estimates made by of these matters.
the directors: and the overall presentation of RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Directors remuneration the financial statements.
In addition, we read OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also all the financial and non-financial information required to report if in our opinion certain As explained more fully in the Directors in the annual report to identify material disclosures of directors remuneration have Responsibilities Statement, the directors inconsistencies with the audited financial not been made or the part of the Directors are responsible for the preparation of statements and to identify any information Remuneration Report to be audited is not the financial statements and for being that is apparently materially incorrect based in agreement with the accounting records satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
on, or materially inconsistent with, the and returns.
Our responsibility is to audit and express knowledge acquired by us in the course of an opinion on the financial statements performing the audit.
If we become aware We have nothing to report arising from in accordance with applicable law and of any apparent material misstatements or these matters.
International Standards on Auditing UK and inconsistencies we consider the implications Corporate Governance Statement Ireland.
We also comply with International for our report.
Under the Listing Rules we are also required Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and to review part of the Corporate Governance Ireland.
Our audit methodology and Statement relating to the companys tools aim to ensure that our quality control compliance with certain provisions of procedures are effective, understood the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our quality controls and DAVID BARNES systems include our dedicated professional We have nothing to report arising from Senior statutory auditor standards review team and independent our review.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP partner reviews.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 24 May 2017
