112 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 AUDITORS CONTINUED We also performed full scope audits on OUR APPLICATION OF AN OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE an additional three components that were MATERIALITY OF OUR AUDIT considered non-significant from a Group We define materiality as the magnitude of The Group operates across Europe, Asia perspective as we perform our audit work misstatement in the financial statements and America and is made up of entities within on these entities at the same time as the that makes it probable that the economic the Fund Management Company FMC and Group audit in order to gain efficiencies.
decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable Investment Company IC businesses.
All the person would be changed or influenced.
key accounting records are maintained in the Specified audit procedures were performed We use materiality both in planning the UK.
We perform our Group scoping on an on another twelve non-significant scope of our audit work and in evaluating individual entity by entity basis to determine components where the extent of our testing the results of our work.
the significant components or specific was based on our assessment of the risks of balances which may be subject to testing.
material misstatement and of the materiality We determined materiality for the Group to In performing this scoping we perform both of the groups operations within the be 10.8 million 2016: 12.2 million, which a quantitative and qualitative assessment of components.
The full scope components is approximately 1% of Net Assets 2016: 1% all the entities consolidated into the Group.
represent the most significant subsidiaries Net assets.
Group materiality is used for setting audit of the group, and account for approximately A lower materiality threshold of 3.7 million scope and the assessment of uncorrected 98% 2016: 98% of the groups net assets 2016: 3.7 million has been applied to misstatements.
Component materialities, and 92% 2016: 93% of the groups profit the Fund Management Company FMC which are lower than Group materiality, are before tax.
They were also selected to management fee income and FMC set for work on significant components provide an appropriate basis for undertaking administrative expense account balances, Audit testing for the significant components, audit work to address the risks of material transactions and disclosures.
In the current was performed at component materiality misstatement identified above.
year we revised our method of determining ranging from 1.8 million 7.3 million.
At the parent entity level we tested the our lower materiality threshold to a more 2016: 1.85 million 6.1 million.
consolidation process and carried out accurate reflection of FMC performance.
Our quantitative assessment was preliminary analytical procedures to confirm our The lower materiality has been based on based on each entitys profit before tax conclusion that there were no significant 5% of profit before tax of the FMC segment PBT, management fees and net assets.
risks of material misstatement of the adjusted to remove any management Further assessment is performed to aggregated financial information of the fees earned from the Investment ensure that reasonable coverage has been remaining components not subject to audit Company segment.
Our qualitative or audit of specified account balances.
We considered these measures to be scoping is based on our understanding of The group engagement team is responsible suitable having compared to other industry the Group and its environment, including for auditing the significant components.
benchmarks and consider them to be key group-wide controls, current year events measures that the users of the financial and our assessment of the risks of material OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS statements consider when assessing the misstatement at the Group level.
Based on PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES performance of the Company.
that assessment, we focused our group audit ACT 2006 scope on the audit work associated with We agreed with the Audit Committee that In our opinion: significant components subject to full scope we would report to the Committee all audits for the year ended 31 March 2017. the part of the Directors Remuneration audit differences in excess of 215,000 Report to be audited has been properly 2016: 244,000 for all items except SIGNIFICANT COMPONENTS prepared in accordance with the FMC management fee income and the Intermediate Capital Group PLC Companies Act 2006: FMC administrative expense revenue Intermediate Capital Investments Ltd streams.
For these balances we report the information given in the Strategic all misstatements above 72,000 ICG FMC Ltd Report and the Directors Report for 2016: 72,000.
We also report differences the financial year for which the financial Intermediate Capital Managers Ltd below these thresholds that, in our statements are prepared is consistent with ICG Carbon Funding Limited view warranted reporting on qualitative the financial statements: and ICG Alternative Investment Limited grounds.
In addition, we report to the the Strategic Report and the Directors Intermediate Finance II PLC Audit Committee on disclosure matters that Report have been prepared in accordance we identified when assessing the overall ICG Global Investments UK Limited with applicable legal requirements.
presentation of the financial statements.
