22 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business model The business is positioned around strong fundamentals of owning highly desirable real estate that is structurally supported, let to good companies and that will generate reliable and growing income.
We use our property expertise and occupier relationships to deliver outperformance.
Our business model evolves to adapt to the changing world that we live in.
The fundamentals Our strategic priorities Our unique approach Investing in structurally Increase weighting supported real estate todistribution We allocate capital to The digital world we live in is driving sectors that we believe structural mega trends resulting in People and are supported by longer aneed for more efficient distribution term structural mega real estate at the expense of expertise trends.
Our priority People are central to our business is to increase our weighting to this Compounding and we look to attract and retain the sector further, particularly urban ourincome best people in our industry.
We have logistics where we see strong a talented and committed team supply demand dynamics.
We focus on delivering across real estate and finance.
reliable, repetitive and Realising income growing income derived growthpotential from strong tenants and long leases.
Weaim to grow our income through: Contractual rental uplifts, both Investing wisely and xed and ination linked adding value Capturing open market rent We invest in sectors with reviewuplifts structural support with a Development and asset Relationships tactical overlay to take management, where we advantage of pricing deliver asuperior return on Our strong occupier relationships imperfections.
ourinvestment shape our decision making.
We aim We add value through to be the partner of choice across Maintaining strong fide-risked asset the distribution and retail sectors.
portfoliometrics management and short Our occupier relationships shape cycle development our decision making.
We aim to own, create and build to build a portfolio of desirable real estate.
We achieve desirable real estate.
strong portfolio metrics through buying well, ensuring occupier Being nancially contentment and gathering astute superior intelligence through We employ a our relationships and continually conservative nancing reviewing the quality of our portfolio.
strategy with a debt Delivering short cycle structure that is aligned developments to our property strategy.
Forensic Through our expertise, we are able The quality of our approach to add value from our development tenants ensures that activity.
Developments are short We are forensic about the quality wecan service our cycle, typically BREEAM Very Good of our assets and the strength of our debtcomfortably.
rated and fide-risked with planning tenants.
Our due diligence at the approved and pre-lets agreed.
time of acquisition and the constant evaluation of our portfolio ensure that we minimise macro risks and also asset and tenant specic risks.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 The value created Property Additional income from lettings andrent reviews 7.1m Like for like income growth 4.6% People and ERV growth expertise Management team with 25 years retail 3.8% andproperty experience Supported by a committed Total Property Return and talented team 7.4% BREEAM Very Good achieved ondevelopments 1.
0m sq ft Forensic Financial Relationships approach EPRA Earnings growth 99.6% occupied portfolio Strong balance sheet 69 occupier deals delivered High quality tenants andassets Over 1 deal per week 5.3% Security of income paramount Dividend growth 3.4% EPRA net assets per share growth 1.4% Total Accounting return 6.4%
