68 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Relations with shareholders Communication with investors remains As the importance of retail private a top priority of the Board who believes wealth shareholders continues to Investor meetings that understanding the views of grow, the Company maintained its shareholders is key to the Companys high level of roadshow activity in UK By location strategic direction and success.
Regional roadshows included visits to Glasgow, Edinburgh, Dublin, The Company places considerable 22% 17% Bristol, Liverpool and Manchester.
UK regional Overseas emphasis on maintaining an In total, private wealth meetings open dialogue with investors, in accounted for 36% of investors seen particular institutions and private and the Company continues to place wealth managers and brokers great importance on engaging with its through a comprehensive investor private wealth shareholders.
Approximately 17% of investor meetings 7% 54% The Chief Executive and Finance were held overseas in Ireland, Holland, Site visit London Director are the Companys principal South Africa and the United States.
representatives and, along with The Company will continue to engage the other Executive Directors and with overseas investors to broaden the Head of Investor Relations, hold By type of investor further its investor base.
meetings throughout the year to 31% 28% communicate the Companys strategy Investor site visits Generalist Specialist and performance.
These include results institution institution Three investor site visits were arranged presentations, one to one meetings, in the year, at several of the Companys group meetings, panel discussions, distribution warehouses in: conferences and site visits.
Newark, occupied by Investor meetings Dixons Carphone The framework of investor relations 36% 5% Reading, let to DHL Private wealth Broker is set around the financial reporting calendar, specically announcement Warrington, which was under of half and full year results.
In addition, construction at the time but was significant shareholder engagement subsequently let to Amazon occurs outside these periods and The visits were attended by primarily consists of UK regional and approximately 60 investors, several overseas roadshows.
These meetings and roadshows seek In addition, in September 2016 the to keep investors informed of the Company arranged a site visit to two Companys performance and plans, of its key distribution warehouses in answer questions they may have and Thrapston, occupied by Primark, for its understand their views.
new Private Placement debt providers.
Topics discussed include the Equity placing development and implementation During the year, the Company of strategy, performance, property undertook a successful equity placing transactions, quality of underlying to raise 95 million.
The Company pretenants, strength of the Companys marketed the placing largely to its top income, debt structure and the real shareholders ahead of announcing.
The placing was priced at a tight discount of 1.9% to the previous days Investor activity share price and a 6.3% premium to the During the financial year, the Company last reported EPRA NAV.
The fundraising met with over 280 shareholders, structure of a placing allowed the analysts and potential investors.
Company to raise the money within A breakdown by type of investor seen less than a week thereby reducing and location of meeting are shown equity market risk and giving high in the charts opposite.
Meetings were certainty of success.
The placing was held predominantly in the UK with 54% oversubscribed with strong support of investors seen in London.
from existing shareholders and several new investors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Investor feedback Annual General Meeting Key shareholder events Investor feedback is presented to the Shareholders are encouraged to throughout the year Board at scheduled meetings, together participate in the Annual General with published analyst comments.
Meeting of the Company, which Q1 provides a forum for communication Feedback received is very supportive of with both private and institutional the Companys strategy, performance, shareholders alike.
The whole Board management and future direction.
attends and is available to answer The Chairman of the Remuneration shareholder questions.
Full year 2016 results presentation Committee wrote to shareholders Investor full year roadshow held The Senior Independent Director is in January 2017 outlining proposed postresults available for shareholders to contact changes to the Remuneration Policy if other channels of communication Site visit to Newark that will be subject to a binding vote with the Company are not available Regional investor meetings in atthis years Annual General Meeting.
Edinburgh, Glasgow and Bristol Following feedback from the The Annual Report is sent to all shareholder consultation, the proposed Q2 shareholders at least 20 working days new policy was amended to exclude before the AGM and details of the an additional one year LTIP target.
resolutions to be proposed can be The majority of the shareholders found in the Notice of Meeting on consulted were supportive of the pages 149 to 153.
Shareholders are able revised proposal.
Annual General Meeting to lodge their votes through the CREST ofShareholders As part of its ongoing shareholder system or by returning the Proxy Card US investor roadshow engagement, the Company is sent with the Annual Report.
Details of planning to conduct its bi-annual the number of proxy votes for, against Investor meetings in Dublin investor sustainability engagement and withheld for each resolution will Site visit to Thrapston survey this year.
be disclosed at the meeting and in the AGM RNS announcement.
Q3 Public communication Shareholders are kept informed of the Companys progress through results statements and other announcements Half year results presentation released through the London Stock Exchange.
Company announcements Half year investor roadshow are made available on the website postresults affording all shareholders full access Investor roadshow in London, tomaterial information.
Liverpool and Amsterdam The website is an important source Site visits to Warrington of information for shareholders and andReading includes a comprehensive investor Q4 relations section containing all RNS announcements, share price information, investor presentations and Annual Reports available for downloading.
A live and on Investor meetings in Birmingham, demand webcast of results and a Bristol, Manchester, Dublin, Cape CEO interview is posted twice a year.
Town and Johannesburg Individual shareholders can raise Letter sent to major shareholders questions directly with the Company outlining new Remuneration at any time through a facility on Policy the website.
