Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Viability statement The business model was stress tested In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the and Dagenham, are expected tocomplete next year to validate its resilience to property UK Corporate Governance Code, the valuation and rental income decline, as Directors have assessed the prospects The average length of asset well as increases in future libor and swap of the Group and future viability over management initiatives involving rates.
It assessed the impact of these a three year period, being longer significant reconguration of retail movements on future performance, than the 12 months required by the parks is under one year liquidity and solvency and the ability Going Concern provision.
The Board The Groups weighted average debt to finance forecast transactions and conducted this review taking account of maturity at 31 March 2017 was 5.2 years committed capital expenditure and the Groups long term strategy, principal renance maturing debt.
It took risks and risk appetite, current position, Three years is considered to be the into account the exibility of capital asset performance and future plans.
optimum balance between long term expenditure and disposal plans and property investment and the inability to This period was chosen for the hedging in place.
accurately forecast ahead given the following reasons: cyclical nature of property investment In addition, further stress testing The Groups financial business plan assessed the limits at which key financial The Groups business model consists of a and detailed budgets cover a rolling covenants and ratios would be base case scenario which only includes three year period.
The business plan breached or deemed unacceptable.
deals under offer and also an assumed includes budgeted profit and cash Property values would need to fall by case which factors in reinvestment.
ows and also considers capital approximately 30% to reach the loan commitments, dividend cover, A sensitivity analysis was carried out to value covenant threshold under the loan to value, loan covenants and which involved exing a number of key existing debt facilities.
These are assumptions to consider the impact of The Directors have also taken into updated and reviewed at least changes to the Groups principal risks account the strong financial position quarterly against actual performance affecting the viability of the business, at 31 March 2017, significant cash and being: It reects the short cycle nature of available facilities, low LTV and the the Groups developments and asset Changes to macro-economic Groups ability to raise new finance.
Six forward conditions impacting rental income Based on the results of their review, funded developments completed levels and property values the Directors have a reasonable in the year at Ferndown, Leicester, Changes in the retail environment expectation that the Company will be Liverpool, Wakeeld, Warrington and impacting occupancy levels able to continue in operation and meet Crawley.
All of these developments and lettings its liabilities as they fall due over the three were completed within one year.
year period of their assessment.
The other committed developments Changes in the availability of funds in progress at the end of the year, impacting committed expenditure including those at Crawley, Stoke and investment transactions The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Company are those risks identied as having the potential to cause Perceived likelihood of occurrence after mitigation material harm to the business and its ability to execute the Rare Low Medium High strategic objectives or exceed the Boards risk appetite.
The risks identied and reported on pages 42 to 47 and in the matrix opposite are categorised in a manner consistent with the Boards risk dashboard which it considers at each meeting.
The rationale for perceived movements in the risks identied are contained within the commentary for each risk category.
Risks which the Board considers have increased 4 9 since last year: 10 2 Economic and political outlook 5 7 8 Valuation risk 2 Risks which the Board considers have remained 3 broadly unchanged since last year: 1 Strategy 3 Human resources 6 4 Systems, processes and financial management 5 Regulatory and tax framework 8 6 Investment risk 1 9 Transaction and tenant risk Risks which the Board considers have reduced since last year: 7 Development risk 10 Capital and finance risk Potential impact Not Extreme High Medium Low significant 42 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 1 Strategy That the Companys The Board review and update strategy and The Company has transitioned its portfolio strategy is unclear objectives regularly adapting to changes so that 62% is now in the distribution sector.
or unrealistic for the in economic conditions and opportunities This and convenience retail are strong current stage of the as they arise.
performing sectors with real prospects for property cycle and rental and capital growth due to a supply The Executive Directors are closely theeconomic climate demand imbalance driven by structural involved in day to day management and changes in consumer shopping habits.
the Company operates from one office Impact: location with a relatively at organisational Completed developments of 1.1million Suboptimal returns for structure making it easier to identify sq ft of space in the year added rent of shareholders.
inability to take advantage Management have an entrepreneurial Development in progress of 0.7million sq ft of opportunities and approach and extensive experience in is expected to add a further 4.9million of effectively manage realestate.
The Company may not be able to ensure Research is commissioned into consumer Like for like income growth was 4.6% over that the people, resources shopping patterns and occupational 69lettings and rent reviews.
and systems are in place markets to assist strategic decision making.
These strong operational metrics supported to ensure ongoing success.
Financial forecasts are updated in light EPRA earnings of 8.2p per share an of strategic changes and reported to the increase of 5.1% on the prior year.
Appetite: Board and Executive Committee regularly.
Executive Directors hold 10.0 million The Board views this The Group has a rolling three year forecast.
shares between them and have unvested as fundamental to Management has a substantial investment interests over a further 6.1 million shares the business and the in the Company with interests aligned with and comfortably meet the Companys Companys reputation.
increased shareholding guidelines as shown on page 106.
The Companys staffing plan is focused onexperience and expertise necessary todeliver its strategy.
Investment review No significant change from 2016 see page 26 Asset management and development review see page 30 Financial review see page 34 Governance see page 57 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 2 Economic and political outlook A downturn or specic Research is commissioned into economic The Company has a weighted average sector turbulence may matters and market volatility is monitored.
unexpired lease term of 12.8 years and an result from economic EPRA vacancy rate of 0.4%.
This continues The Company only invests in the UK and andpolitical factors to be amongst the highest and lowest has little exposure to the London market.
A significant proportion of the Companys Impact: Distribution assets now represent 62% of portfolio is in a resilient asset class with a Poorer than expected the portfolio.
Logistics space is still heavily supply demand imbalance.
performance, asset values under supplied.
may fall, tenant demand The weighted average unexpired lease 52.7 million of expenditure in the year and asset liquidity may term is high reducing re-letting risk.
related to forward funded and pre-let reduce.
Debt markets The vacancy rate is low due to strict opportunities.
Successful equity placing in March The tenant base is diversied.
Acquisition Appetite: increased available facilities for further due diligence considers tenant covenant Market conditions are investment to 299.7 million.
outside of the Companys The Board is confident that economic Developments and asset management control.
and political risk is mitigated through the initiatives are usually undertaken on makeup of the portfolio with its strong focus apre-let basis or where a researched on distribution and convenience retail.
The strong portfolio metrics and financial The Company has medium term, exible returns provide protection in the form of funding with significant headroom in a sustainable long term income return covenant levels and no reliance on sales.
Investment review This risk has increased since the last year end.
Heightened see page 26 economic and political uncertainty exists from major events such Asset management and development review as the triggering of Article 50 and the upcoming UK election see page 30 3 Human resources An inability to attract, The Company maintains an organisational The Chairmans contract was extended motivate and retain high structure with clear responsibilities and to31 March 2018. calibre staff reporting lines.
Further consideration will be given to the The remuneration structure is aligned position of Chairman during the course Impact: to long term performance targets for ofthe current year.
That the Company doesnt the business with long term share based The Executive Directors have a significant have staff with the skills incentive arrangements in place.
shareholding and unvested share and experience to deliver Senior management shareholdings in the awards in the Company to incentivise its business plan.
performance and retention, providing Appetite: stability in the management structure Annual appraisals identify training The Board views it as ofthe business.
vitally important that Senior managers are incentivised in Specialist agencies are contracted where the Company has the the same way as reected in the table appropriate if there are perceived short appropriate level of onpage 96. term skills shortfalls.
leadership, expertise and experience to deliver its objectives and adapt to change.
Directors Remuneration Policy No significant change from 2016 see page 88 44 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate risks continued Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 4 Systems, processes and financial management There are weak controls for The Company has a strong control culture.
An extension of the property database safeguarding assets and was implemented in the year to improve Systems security is in place, supported by a supporting strategy administrative and reporting procedures.
Business continuity plans are up to date with adequate back up The risk posed by cyber attacks continues Impact: which is tested.
to grow as attacker capabilities become Inadequate asset security.
increasingly sophisticated and open to an Procedures are in place to ensure Potentially suboptimal ever widening and global organised crime accuracy of the property database returns and decisions network.
The Board however considers that anddata capture.
made on inaccurate the delivery of the Companys strategy information.
Assets are safeguarded with appropriate is not dependent on the operation of its levels of insurance.
Strategic risk therefore is not Appetite: Appropriate segregation of duties and materially increased as a result of a cyber Appetite for such risk is controls over financial systems are in place.
IT security is an integral part of the low and management Financial information is provided to Companys risk management and control continually strives to management on a timely basis for processes and the Audit Committee has monitor and improve approval and decision making purposes.
considered the safeguards in place.
Costs are controlled with procedures to There is a rolling programme in place for ensure that expenditure is valid, properly IT improvements and updates to ensure authorised and monitored.
security, systems and equipment remains tfor purpose.
Audit Committee report No significant change from 2016 see page 75 5 Regulatory and tax framework There is a clear focus on obligations under The Company may be affected in the Non compliance with legal or regulatory the Companys responsible business future by proposed tax changes to obligations strategy and regulatory inuences loss relief should there be any future on the business such as Health and profits which are not covered by its REIT Impact: Safety, environmental, employment, exemption.
These however are unlikely Fines, penalties, sanctions anti-corruption related legislation and tobe material.
and reputational damage theUKCorporate Governance Code.
Changes relating to taxation of residential which may impact investor Responsibility for specic obligations is property, particularly the rate of SDLT demand in the Company.
allocated to individuals and overseen has, in addition to economic factors, led Potential loss of REIT status.
External to a slowdown in the London residential Increased costs.
Impact specialists provide advice and support.
market to which the Company still has on re-letting potential of some exposure through its 40% joint venture Staff training is provided.
The joint venture The Company receives external specialist has continued to sell down ats with 21 Appetite: tax advice.
The Board has no appetite Compliance with REIT legislation is where non compliance monitored on an ongoing basis for decision risks injury or damage making purposes and reported.
to staff, tenants, assets, The impact of legislative changes shareholders and isconsidered in strategic terms.
Financial review No significant change from 2016 see page 34 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Property risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 6 Investment risk Investment opportunities Managements extensive experience and The Company acquired 116.2 million of cannot be sourced at their strong network of connections provide property with a number of significant off attractive prices insight into the property market and market transactions.
The Company recycled capital out of Impact: Managements relationship with retailers mature and non core retail, leisure and Ability to implement and its ability to forward fund assets is residential assets with disposals totalling strategy and deploy an important factor in generating deal 147.5 million in the year.
capital into value and ow given the difficulty in nding value earnings accretive in income generating assets due to yield investments at risk.
Appetite: This risk is largely affected by matters outside of the Boards control, but is minimised by having the right people and funding in place to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Investment review No significant change from 2016 see page 26 7 Development risk Excessive capital is The Company only considers short The 357,000 sq ft speculative development allocated to activities cycle and relatively uncomplicated at Warrington was let within five weeks of with development risk.
development, although management completion to Amazon.
Developments fail to have significant experience of more Development only represents 1.8% of the deliver expected returns complex development.
portfolio at the year end.
due to inconsistent timing Exposure to development and phasing of Ten developments representing 1.1 million with the economic cycle, projects is regularly considered.
The overall sqft of space were delivered in the year adverse letting conditions, level of exposure to development is low as ontime and budget.
increased costs, planning a percentage of the total portfolio.
Committed development at the year end or construction delays Standardised appraisals and cost budgets of 0.7 million sq ft was over 50% pre-let.
are prepared for developments with Impact: regular monitoring of expenditure against Poorer than expected budget to highlight potential overruns at performance.
External project managers Appetite: appointed.
The Board is willing to Procurement processes include tendering take some speculative and the use of highly regarded rms development and with track records of delivery to minimise planning risk if it represents uncertainty over costs.
a relatively small Developments are only undertaken in proportion of the total areas of high occupier demand.
significant portfolio and is supported pre-lets are secured where possible before by robust research in commencement to fide-risk projects.
respect of demand and a Where possible development sites are high likelihood of planning acquired with planning approval in place.
Asset management and development review This risk has reduced from 2016 see page 30 46 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Property risks continued Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 8 Valuation risk Assets may devalue As reported the Boards strategy has been Valuations should continue to be to transition the portfolio into resilient asset supported by a supply demand Impact: classes.
The property cycle is continually imbalance in the Companys preferred Pressure on NAV growth monitored with investment and divestment sector.
and potentially loan decisions made strategically in anticipation The valuation decline at the Interim covenants.
stage following the outcome of the EU Property portfolio performance is regularly Referendum had been recouped by the Appetite: reviewed and benchmarked on an asset year end with an overall gain in the year This is an inherent risk in by asset basis.
There is no certainty that property Focus is on income security.
Lettings to high Delivery of developments on time and values will be realised.
quality tenants within a diversied portfolio budget supported valuation assumptions.
of well located assets and a high weighted The top ten tenants contribute 51.8% of average unexpired lease term reduces the contracted commercial rental income.
risk of negative movements in a downturn.
Asset management and development review Increased risk due to greater economic uncertainty see page 30 9 Transaction and tenant risk Property purchases are Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated The Company has a very low level of inconsistent with strategy.
through a detailed financial, legal and tenant default and high occupancy levels.
Inadequate due diligence operational appraisal prior to Board The EPRA vacancy rate at the year end is undertaken.
made to inappropriate Asset management initiatives There were no significant trade debtors tenants undergo cost-benefit analysis before considered at risk at the year end.
Impact: The tenant base has been further External advisors ensure appropriate Pressure exerted on NAV, diversied during the year with the pricing of lease transactions and assist earnings and potentially covenant strength of the top ten tenants acquisition due diligence.
Tenant covenant strength and The Board considers that the occupational Appetite: concentration are assessed for all market is strong in the distribution and The Boards appetite for acquisitions and leasing transactions.
risk arising out of poor due An experienced property management diligence processes on team work closely with tenants and acquisitions, disposals and consider action for slow payers.
Rent collection is closely monitored and reported to identify potential issues.
The Group has a diverse tenant base and limited exposure to individual occupiers in bespoke properties.
No significant change from 2016 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Financing risks Risk, impact, appetite How it is managed Commentary 10 Capital and finance risk The Company has Assets which have achieved target returns A private placement was entered into insufficient funds and and strategic asset plans are considered in September 2016 at a blended rate of credit available to it for sale.
2.7% and a weighted average maturity of 8.3years diversifying the Companys Cash ow forecasts are monitored closely Impact: lending partners.
to ensure sufficient funds are available Implementation of to take advantage of investment An oversubscribed placing of 95.5 million strategy is at risk.
opportunities and meet financial completed in March 2017 to predominantly commitments.
fund distribution acquisitions and a Appetite: distribution development pipeline.
The Board has no appetite Relationships with a diversied range of for imprudently low levels lenders are nurtured and loan facilities Headroom on the Companys of available headroom in regularly reviewed.
The availability 443.8 million unsecured revolving credit its reserves or credit lines.
of debt and the terms on which it is facility has been increased as a result of available is considered as part of the the private placement, placing and sales It accepts a low degree strategy and analysis for each acquisition providing greater operational exibility.
76% of the facility has been extended inexibility in return for forafurther year to April 2022. theavailability of credit.
Loan facilities incorporate covenant headroom, appropriate cure provisions Disposals of 201.9 million and acquisitions and sufficient exibility to implement asset of 116.2 million in the year demonstrate our management initiatives.
Headroom is ability to recycle capital.
actively monitored and incorporated into At 31 March 2017, the Group had hedging forecasts.
Non financial covenants are also in place covering 87% of total available closely monitored.
debt facilities including joint venture Gearing levels are carefully considered arrangements.
and stress tested before entering into new The Company has complied with and arrangements.
A modest level of gearing has significant headroom in all financial ismaintained overall.
The impact of disposals on secured The Companys diversied and loan facilities covering multiple assets predominantly unsecured lending base, is considered as part of the decision and its derivatives insulate it from credit risks makingprocess.
associated with one off shocks from any Interest rate derivatives are used to x single asset.
or cap exposure to rising rates.
Hedging recommendations are received from a specialist advisor.
The Company has joint ventures with well capitalised partners.
Joint venture partners are chosen with care to ensure that strategies are not misaligned which may impact asset value and liquidity.
Financial review Risk reduced since 2016 see page 34
