Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2017 0B1.
1BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies a Basis of preparation The groups financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted for use in the European Union and therefore the Groups financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
As more fully detailed in the Directors report, the Groups financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments which are required to be measured at fair value.
Accounting standards that are newly effective in the current year The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation of the Groups annual financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 except for the following amendments, which were effective for the first time in the current year but had no impact on the results or financial position of the Group: Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements disclosure initiative: Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38: Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation: Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements Accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations: and Amendments resulting from annual improvements to IFRSs 2012-2014 and 2013-2015 cycle.
Accounting standards that are not yet mandatory and have not been applied by the Group The following standards and interpretations have been issued but are not yet mandatorily effective and in some cases have not yet been adopted by the EU and have not been applied by the Group: IFRS 9 Financial instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: IFRS 16 Leases: Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payment classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions: Amendments to IAS 7 Cash flow statements disclosure initiative: Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses: and Amendments to IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and IAS 28 Investments in associates and joint ventures sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed above will have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods, except as noted below: IFRS 9 will impact both the measurement and disclosures of financial instruments: IFRS 15 introduces a new revenue recognition model and is due to be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
It will have a material impact on the reported assets and income statement of the Group.
The Group is conducting a detailed review of IFRS 15 with the view to early adopting the standard for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The review of the impact of IFRS 15 is continuing and will be completed during 2017.
The key impacts identified to date are: Percentage of completion accounting on long-term complex contracts the five step model for revenue recognition contained in IFRS 15 introduces the concept of performance obligations.
Performance obligations are the contractual promise by an entity to transfer goods or services to a customer.
Percentage of completion accounting does not provide an appropriate representation of the satisfaction of performance obligations on these long-term complex contracts and consequently will no longer be considered applicable to these contracts.
Therefore, it will not be appropriate to carry forward accrued revenue in relation to percentage of completion accounting on these contracts.
Mobilisation costs under IFRS 15, costs of mobilising new contracts will have to meet different criteria in order to be classified as a cost of fulfilling a contract.
This change will materially affect both: i the amount of costs capitalised on long-term complex contracts that have been accounted for under the percentage of completion method: and ii the amount of costs that have been capitalised previously as mobilisation costs: and IFRS 16 will require nearly all leases to be recognised on the balance sheet as liabilities with corresponding assets being created.
It will be effective for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Beyond the information above, it is not practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of these standards until detailed reviews have been completed.
114 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued b Significant accounting policies under IFRS The significant accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the Groups IFRS financial information are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of Mitie Group plc and all its subsidiaries.
The parent company has applied FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework in the preparation of its individual financial statements.
FRS 101 applies IFRS as adopted by the European Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date on which control is transferred out of the Group.
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All inter-company balances and transactions, including unrealised profits arising from inter-group transactions, have been eliminated in full.
Interests of non-controlling interest shareholders are measured at the non-controlling interests proportion of the net fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised.
Changes in a parents ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for within shareholders equity.
No gain or loss is recognised on such transactions and goodwill is not re-measured.
Any difference between the change in the non-controlling interest and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
Statutory and non-statutory measures of performance The financial statements contain all the information and disclosures required by the relevant accounting standards and regulatory obligations that apply to the Group.
In the financial statements the Group has elected to provide some further disclosures and performance measures, reported as before other items, in order to present its financial results in a way that demonstrates the performance of continuing operations excluding the results from restructuring and acquisition related costs, and the amortisation or write-off of acquired intangible assets and goodwill.
Results before other items are a non-statutory measure.
Other items are defined as items of income or expenditure which, in the opinion of the Directors, are material or unusual in nature or of such significance that they require separate disclosure on the face of the income statement in accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
Should these items be reversed disclosure of this would also be as other items.
Further detail of other items is set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
In addition, following the guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authorities ESMA, the Group has included an APM appendix to the financial statements on page 174.
These APMs are measures which disclose the adjusted performance of the Group excluding specific items which are regarded as nonrecurring.
The Directors believe that these are useful for users of the financial statements in helping to provide a balanced view of, and relevant information on, the Groups financial performance.
Foreign currency The financial statements of each of the Groups businesses are prepared in the functional currency applicable to that business.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at that date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in the income statement for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
com 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on their acquisition, are translated into sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income and expenses are translated into sterling at average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised directly in equity in the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement.
Revenue Revenue represents income recognised in respect of services provided during the period stated net of sales taxes and is earned predominantly within the United Kingdom.
Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
When revenue is recognised but has not yet been billed accrued income arises.
Deferred income arises when the Group has billed clients in advance of recognising revenue.
All bid costs are expensed through the income statement up to the point where contract award or full recovery of the costs is virtually certain.
The confirmation of the preferred bidder for a contract by a client is the point at which the award of a contract is considered to be virtually certain.
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date.
Revenue from time and material contracts is recognised at the contractual rates as labour hours and tasks are delivered and direct expenses incurred.
In other cases, the Group distinguishes between the following types of contract: Revenue recognition: repeat service-based contracts single and bundled contracts Revenue is recognised on a straight-line basis unless this is not an accurate reflection of the work performed.
Where a straight-line basis is not appropriate, for example if specific works on contracts represent a significant element of the whole, revenue is recognised based on the percentage of completion method, based on the proportion of costs incurred at the balance sheet date relative to the total estimated cost of completing the contracted work.
Costs incurred, after the confirmation of preferred bidder, that are specific costs incurred to ensure that the project or programme has appropriate organisational, operational and technical infrastructures and mechanisms in place to enable the delivery of full services under the contract target operating model are defined as mobilisation costs.
These costs are included within trade and other receivables on the balance sheet provided that the costs relate directly to the contract, are separately identifiable, can be measured reliably and that the future net cash inflows from the contract are estimated to be no less than the amounts capitalised.
Such costs may be incurred when a contract is awarded, or when there is a subsequent change in the scope of contracted services.
The mobilisation costs are amortised over the contracted period including any contracted extension periods, generally on a straight-line basis, or on a basis to reflect the profile of work to be performed over the contracted period if the straight-line basis is not considered to be appropriate for the specific contract to which the costs relate.
If the contract becomes loss making, any unamortised costs are written off and the expected loss is provided for immediately.
Revenue recognition: long-term complex contracts The group has a number of long-term contracts for the provision of complex project-based services, predominantly integrated facilities management contracts.
These are contracts which are transformational in nature and usually five years in initial duration.
In this context, transformational means that the cost to the client over the life of the contract is reduced as a result of significant transformations in service provision.
Typically these contracts are priced to average the annual charge to the client over the contract period and involve the provision of multiple service lines, with a single management team providing an integrated service.
Where the outcome of such complex project-based contracts can be measured reliably, revenue and costs are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contract activity at the balance sheet date.
This is measured by the proportion of contract costs incurred for work performed to date compared to the total estimated contract costs using the percentage of completion methodology.
Contract costs used to determine the stage of completion are recognised in the income statement as expenses in the period in which they are incurred and include transition costs, which are similar in nature to mobilisation costs under repeat servicebased contracts.
Transition costs are expenses incurred in the performance of transitioning services provided after confirmation of preferred bidder and before commencement of full services under the contract target operating model: no profit margin is recognised for these transition costs.
116 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Contract costs also include transition costs arising when there is a subsequent change in the scope of contracted services and include budgeted cost savings.
Where the outcome of a complex project-based contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that contract costs will be recovered.
Full provision is made for all known or anticipated losses on each contract immediately as losses are forecast.
In a number of long-term complex contracts, the achievement of certain key performance indicators KPIs is a significant milestone which enables revenue to be recognised.
KPIs are generally measured contemporaneously with the performance of the service, rather than being measured over a long period or retrospectively.
Revenue recognition: other Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that are incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
Borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred, with the finance charges relating to the direct cost of debt issue spread over the period to redemption using the effective interest method.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities: or when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
It is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the income statement for the period and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
com 117 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost less expected residual value of the assets over their estimated useful lives and is calculated on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 50 years Leasehold improvements period of the lease Plant and vehicles 310 years Annually the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the CGU to which the asset belongs.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or CGU is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or CGU in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.
Intangible assets Intangible assets identified in a business acquisition are capitalised at fair value as at the date of acquisition.
Software and development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset if the asset created can be identified, if it is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits and if the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Following initial recognition, the carrying amount of an intangible asset is its cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that they may be impaired.
Amortisation expense is charged to administrative expenses in the income statement on a straight-line basis over its useful life.
Joint ventures and associates The Group has an interest in joint ventures which are entities in which the Group has joint control.
The Group also has an interest in associates which are entities in which the Group has significant influence.
The Group accounts for its interest in joint ventures and associates using the equity method.
Under the equity method the Groups share of the post-tax result of joint ventures and associates is reported as a single line item in the consolidated income statement.
The Groups interest in joint ventures and associates is carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost plus post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of net assets.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads incurred in bringing the inventories to their present condition and location.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling price less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and estimated selling costs.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The Group derecognises financial assets and liabilities only when the contractual rights and obligations are transferred, discharged or expire.
Assets that are assessed not to be individually impaired are subsequently assessed for impairment on a collective basis.
Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables includes the Groups past experience of collecting payments, the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on receivables.
118 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets comprise loans and receivables and are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost.
Appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts are recognised where there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other shortterm highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
Financial liabilities comprise trade payables, financing liabilities, bank and other borrowings, and deferred contingent consideration.
These are measured at initial recognition at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost with the exception of derivative financial instruments which are measured at fair value, and deferred contingent consideration which is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation.
Bank and other borrowings are stated at the amount of the net proceeds after deduction of transaction costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accruals basis in the income statement.
Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting The Group uses derivative financial instruments, including cross-currency interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, to manage the Groups exposure to financial risks associated with interest rates and foreign exchange.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value, determined by reference to market rates, at each balance sheet date and included as financial assets or liabilities as appropriate.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in the income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group may designate certain hedging instruments including derivatives as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations.
Hedges of foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item.
Fair value hedges Hedges are classified as fair value hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to the income statement from that date.
Cash flow hedges Hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when they hedge the exposure to changes in cash flows that are attributable to a particular risk associated with either a recognised asset or liability or a forecast transaction.
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity within the Groups translation and hedging reserve.
The gain or loss relating to any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
com 119 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in the income statement, in the same line as the recognised hedged item.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability.
Any gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income at that time is accumulated in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges are classified as net investment hedges when they hedge the foreign currency exposure to changes in the Groups share in the net assets of a foreign operation.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the Groups translation and hedging reserve.
Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in equity are reclassified to the income statement in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operation as described above.
Leasing Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged directly to the income statement.
Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated life of the asset or the lease term.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any lease incentives are amortised on a straight-line basis over the non-cancellable period for which the Group has contracted to lease the asset, together with any further terms for which the Group has the option to continue to lease the asset if, at the inception of the lease, it is judged to be reasonably certain that the Group will exercise the option.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
Where the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain.
The expense relating to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a borrowing cost.
Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the acquisition method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition costs incurred are expensed.
The acquiree identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement.
120 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Where applicable, the consideration for an acquisition includes any assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, measured at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes in such fair values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition where they result from additional information, obtained within one year from the acquisition date, about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.
All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as an asset or liability are recognised in accordance with IAS 39, either in the income statement or as a change to other comprehensive income.
Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are not recognised.
Any business combinations prior to 1 April 2010 were accounted for using the standards in place prior to the adoption of IFRS 3 revised 2008 which differ in the following respects: transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition formed part of the acquisition costs: contingent consideration was recognised if, and only if, the Group had a present obligation, the economic outflow was more likely than not and a reliable estimate was determinable: and subsequent adjustments to the contingent consideration were recognised as part of goodwill.
Changes in the Group's ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions.
The carrying amounts of the Group's interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference between: i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest: and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39, when applicable, of an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
Share-based payments The Group operates a number of executive and employee share option schemes.
Equity-settled share-based payments to employees are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date.
The fair value excludes the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
For all grants of share options and awards, the fair value as at the date of grant is calculated using the Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo models and the corresponding expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market based vesting conditions.
Save As You Earn SAYE options are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme, resulting in an acceleration of the remainder of the related expense.
Retirement benefit costs The Group operates and participates in a number of defined benefit schemes.
In respect of the schemes in which the Group participates, the Group accounts for its legal and constructive obligations over the period of its participation which is for a fixed period only.
In addition, the Group operates a number of defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees.
Payments to the defined contribution and stakeholder pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
For the defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets excluding interest and the effect of the asset ceiling if applicable are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Current service cost and past service cost are recognised in the income statement, in administrative expenses, whilst the net interest cost is recognised in net finance costs.
The retirement benefit liability recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation, as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.
com 121 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued c Prior year restatements During the year there was an apparent significant shortfall in the expected profitability of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2017.
A new executive management team was appointed in December and January and they immediately launched an Accounting Review process to provide confidence that all relevant accounting standards were appropriately reflected in the Groups financial reporting.
Following additional information becoming available, the review work has identified a number of prior year errors that, due to their materiality, require the restatement of the results for the year ended 31 March 2016, as well as the consolidated balance sheet positions as at 31 March 2016 and at 31 March 2015.
These prior year restatements relate to the following areas: Impairment of Healthcare goodwill The Healthcare goodwill impairment testing for the year ended 31 March 2016 was carried out by reference to a business plan, which incorrectly included within it an apprenticeships business and certain other assumptions.
Correcting for these errors in the goodwill impairment model would have resulted in Healthcare goodwill being impaired by 26.0m in the year ended 31 March 2016.
This amount has now been written off to the consolidated income statement in the year ended 31 March 2016.
Additionally there was a material disclosure deficiency in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, in that there was a failure to disclose the significant judgements made around the inclusion of new service line expansion plans in the Healthcare business, adjacent to existing skills and assets already in the business.
See Note 2 for further details.
Intangible asset write-off Errors arising from the incorrect application of accounting policies during the impairment testing of other intangible assets for the year ended 31 March 2014 resulted in the carrying value of capitalised software costs within intangible assets being overstated at 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016.
At 31 March 2015 this resulted in a net asset value of 2.8m being written off to the consolidated income statement together with a corresponding increase in the deferred tax asset of 0.5m.
In the consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2016 a credit for 0.5m has now been included in respect of amortisation no longer required, and a corresponding reduction in the deferred tax asset of 0.1m.
Under-accrual of costs A number of under-accruals, or under-provisions, of various categories of costs have been identified in relation to prior years.
These costs have now been written off to the consolidated income statement in the relevant years and were incurred in relation to: i employee bonuses that were paid during the year ended 31 March 2017 but related to the financial years ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2016 totalling 8.3m 2015 - 0.6m and 2016 - 7.7m : and ii under-provision of insurance liabilities that were outstanding at 31 March 2015 5.6m and 31 March 2016 0.3m and contract related provisions of 2.2m in the year to 31 March 2016.
The tax impacts of these adjustments were credits to the consolidated income statement of 1.3m in 2015 and 2.0m in 2016.
Overstatement of trade receivables and accrued income Certain revenue recognition polices relating to the inclusion of disputed items in project revenues, the deferral in recognition of commercial claims and the recognition of profit margins on accrued income balances were not applied correctly, resulting in an overstatement of trade receivables and accrued income at 31 March 2015 4.6m and 31 March 2016 of 11.2m.
These amounts have now been written off to the consolidated income statement along with a corresponding credit to tax of 1.0m in 2015 and 2.2m in 2016.
122 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B1.
3BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Summary A summary of the combined impact of the prior year adjustments on the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2016 as well as the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 arising from the restatements is as follows: Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 March 2016 Overstatement of trade Impairment receivables As As reported of Intangible Underand previously Discontinue continuing healthcare asset accrual of accrued reported d operations operations goodwill write-off costs income Restated m m m m m m m m Continuing operations Revenue 2,231.9 75.8 2,156.1 9.2 2,146.9 Gross profit 322.6 15.1 307.5 10.4 297.1 Operating profit loss 112.5 16.0 128.5 0.5 10.2 11.2 107.6 Profit loss before tax 96.8 16.0 112.8 0.5 10.2 11.2 91.9 Tax 19.3 3.0 22.3 0.1 2.0 2.2 18.2 Profit loss after tax 77.5 13.0 90.5 0.4 8.2 9.0 73.7 Loss from discontinued operations 13.0 13.0 26.0 39.0 Profit loss for the year 77.5 77.5 26.0 0.4 8.2 9.0 34.7 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 March 2016 Overstatement of trade Impairment receivables of Intangible Under and healthcare asset accrual of accrued goodwill write-off costs As reported income Restated m m m m m m Net cash flow from operating activities 85.2 85.2 Net cash outflow from investing activities 27.8 27.8 Net cash outflow from financing activities 60.9 60.9 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 3.5 3.5 Net cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 96.4 96.4 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 0.2 0.2 Net cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 93.1 93.1 www.
com 123 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 16B1.
17BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2016 Overstatement of trade Impairment Intangible Underreceivables of healthcare asset write accrual of and accrued As reported goodwill off costs income Restated m m m m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 465.5 26.0 439.5 Other intangible assets 66.9 2.3 64.6 Property, plant and equipment 49.3 49.3 Interest in joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 Derivative financial instruments 14.4 14.4 Trade and other receivables 86.0 1.2 84.8 Deferred tax assets 10.0 0.4 10.4 Total non-current assets 692.7 26.0 1.9 1.2 663.6 Current assets Inventories 9.9 9.9 Trade and other receivables 446.7 14.6 432.1 Cash and cash equivalents 93.1 93.1 Total current assets 549.7 14.6 535.1 Total assets 1,242.4 26.0 1.9 15.8 1,198.7 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 487.8 8.3 496.1 Current tax liabilities 10.4 3.3 3.2 3.9 Financing liabilities 1.9 1.9 Provisions 0.4 8.1 8.5 Total current liabilities 500.5 13.1 3.2 510.4 Net current assets 49.2 13.1 11.4 24.7 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 2.5 2.5 Financing liabilities 283.9 283.9 Provisions 0.5 0.5 Retirement benefit liabilities 35.5 35.5 Deferred tax liabilities 4.4 4.4 Total non-current liabilities 326.8 326.8 Total liabilities 827.3 13.1 3.2 837.2 Net assets 415.1 26.0 1.9 13.1 12.6 361.5 Total equity 415.1 26.0 1.9 13.1 12.6 361.5 124 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 16B1.
17BBasis of preparation and significant accounting policies continued Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2015 Overstatement of trade Impairment Intangible Underreceivables of healthcare asset write accrual of and accrued goodwill off costs As reported income Restated m m m m m m Non-current assets Goodwill 464.4 464.4 Other intangible assets 76.6 2.8 73.8 Property, plant and equipment 53.3 53.3 Interest in joint ventures and associates 1.1 1.1 Derivative financial instruments 8.0 8.0 Trade and other receivables 58.5 58.5 Deferred tax assets 13.4 0.5 13.9 Total non-current assets 675.3 2.3 673.0 Current assets Inventories 11.0 11.0 Trade and other receivables 421.4 4.6 416.8 Cash and cash equivalents 96.4 96.4 Total current assets 528.8 4.6 524.2 Total assets 1,204.1 2.3 4.6 1,197.2 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 476.0 0.6 476.6 Current tax liabilities 5.2 1.3 1.0 2.9 Financing liabilities 1.8 1.8 Provisions 4.9 5.6 10.5 Total current liabilities 487.9 4.9 1.0 491.8 Net current assets 40.9 4.9 3.6 32.4 Non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 8.0 8.0 Financing liabilities 279.2 279.2 Provisions 7.4 7.4 Retirement benefit liabilities 35.8 35.8 Deferred tax liabilities 7.5 7.5 Total non-current liabilities 337.9 337.9 Total liabilities 825.8 4.9 1.0 829.7 Net assets 378.3 2.3 4.9 3.6 367.5 Total equity 378.3 2.3 4.9 3.6 367.5 www.
com 125 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2.
19BCritical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the Groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 above, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
Revenue recognition The Groups revenue recognition policies, which are set out in Note 1 b, are central to how the Group measures the work it has performed in each financial year: some of these could be considered as key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The revenue recognised for certain long-term complex project-based services is based on the stage of completion of the contract activity.
This is measured by comparing the proportion of costs incurred, which include transition costs reflecting costs incurred in the performance of transitioning services, against the estimated whole-life contract costs.
This requires significant judgements to be made in forecasting the outcomes of the long-term contracts.
Particular judgement is required in evaluating the operational and financial business plans for these contracts to forecast the expected whole-life contract billings, costs and margin and to assess the recoverability of any resulting accrued income through the life of the contract.
In forming the judgement around expected whole-life contract billings, account is taken of potential deductions from and increments to revenue that may arise from the application of performance related measures under contracts.
This requires management to apply judgements and estimates that draw on the knowledge and experience of the Groups project managers and delivery teams together with the Groups commercial and finance professionals.
Whilst there may be a broad range of possible outcomes based on the relevant circumstances of the individual contract, the Group has controls in place whereby all significant contracts are reviewed on a monthly basis and reforecast quarterly.
The amounts recognised as revenue, profit and contract assets are sensitive to changes in assumptions, for example: Revenue measurement in line with the Groups revenue recognition policy for long-term complex contracts, revenue is recognised on these contracts to the extent that the outcome of the project can be reliably measured.
For long-term complex contracts this requires judgements to be made on which elements of the contract can be accurately forecast.
These contracts will usually comprise fixed revenue streams, variable works and project works.
Project works are not included as part of a long-term complex contract on the basis that these amounts are discretionary and consequently cannot be reliably forecast.
Therefore these projects are accounted for separately.
The revenue streams that can be reliably forecast comprise the fixed elements for example for ongoing cleaning and security services and variable works.
Contract profitability and costs to complete long-term complex contracts are transformational in nature and there is a commitment to work in partnership with the client from the outset of the contract to drive significant cost savings and efficiencies throughout the life of the contract.
During the mobilisation of a contract a target operating model is developed.
This target operating model shows how the services that are part of the contract will be delivered during the contract and is subject to a continuous review improvement process throughout the duration of the contract.
The target operating model, cost saving initiatives identified and revenue pipeline will be combined into a financial plan for the individual contract.
Only cost saving initiatives that are considered to be reasonably certain in terms of timing and scale are included in the plan.
Managements ability to accurately forecast the costs to complete the contract involves judgements around cost savings to be achieved over time, anticipated profitability of the contract, as well as contract specific performance KPIs.
Where a contract is anticipated to make a loss, these judgements are also relevant in determining whether or not an onerous contract provision is required and how this is to be measured.
Renegotiation of terms the Group often enters into renegotiations of existing contract terms such as the timing or the specifications of the services to be delivered.
Depending on the outcome of such negotiations, the timing and amount of revenue recognised may be different.
Recoverability of contract related assets linked to the profitability of contracts above, management is also required to determine the recoverability of contract related assets, accrued income and accounts receivable.
Judgement is required in determining whether or not the future economic benefits from contracts are sufficient to recover these contract assets.
Review of accounting policies and estimates The Group has undertaken an accounting review process to provide confidence that all relevant accounting standards were appropriately reflected in its financial reporting.
The review has considered how the Groups accounting policies have been applied and interpreted, which has resulted in a number of more conservative applications of accounting estimates and judgements in the following areas: Work in progress for certain Engineering Services projects profit margins on work in progress will only be recognised when the project is complete.
Transition costs on long-term complex contracts the methodology for recognising revenue on transition costs incurred at the start of a contract has been changed.
No gross profit margin will be applied to the revenue attributable to these costs.
126 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2.
19BCritical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Uncontracted revenue streams on long-term complex contracts the approach to assessing the whole-life profitability of long-term complex contracts has been revised.
Uncontracted project works are excluded from the percentage of completion calculation for these contracts and instead accounted for as repeat service-based contracts.
Mobilisation costs incurred at the commencement of contracts the items incurred at the outset of the contract, which are spread over the contract life, have been reassessed with more items being expensed immediately.
Profit before other items Other items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be separately identified on the face of the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance achieved by the Group.
Determining whether an item is part of other items or not requires judgement.
Other items after tax of 153.5m 2016 restated: 39.0m were charged to the income statement for the year ended 31 March 2017.
An analysis of the amounts included in other items is detailed in Note 5.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Assessment of a prior year error in relation to goodwill on the Healthcare CGU At 31 March 2016, the reported carrying value of Healthcare goodwill was 107.2m, with value-in-use calculated at 145.4m.
At 30 September 2016 it was determined that the carrying value of this goodwill was fully impaired and written down to a nil value.
Subsequently a large proportion of the Healthcare CGU was sold for 2 and the Group agreed to contribute 9.5m towards the trading losses of the business and the turnaround plan see Note 6 Discontinued operations and disposal of subsidiaries for further details on the sale of the Healthcare division.
As explained in the Audit Committee report on page 55 the FRCs Corporate Reporting Review Committee has made enquiries in this area.
During the course of preparation of our response to its February 2017 letter, new evidence came to light that had not previously been provided to the external auditor, the Audit Committee or the Board.
The Audit Committee appointed KPMG to review the circumstances surrounding the judgement made on Healthcare goodwill at 31 March 2016.
As a result of the review, the Audit Committee has considered whether there were one or more errors, which in accordance with IAS 8, require a prior year adjustment.
As part of this assessment the Audit Committee considered the further information that was available at 31 March 2016 but had not been communicated to the external auditor, the Audit Committee or the Board.
It has concluded that: One or more errors had been made in the preparation of the plan that was approved by the Board and formed the basis for the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill.
Correction of those errors reduces the value in use by 64.0m which results in an impairment to Healthcare goodwill of 26.0m as at 31 March 2016.
The Audit Committee believes that this is a prior period error in accordance with IAS 8 and consequently a prior year adjustment is made in these accounts to goodwill at 31 March 2016 see Note 1 c Prior year restatements for further details on the prior year restatements made.
A number of other judgements were made in respect of the impairment testing of Healthcare goodwill at 31 March 2016, which were impacted by the discovery of further information and has been considered by the Board and Audit Committee as part of the preparation of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
These judgements relate to the inclusion of new service line expansion plans in the Healthcare business, adjacent to existing skills and assets already in the business, namely provision of telecare services, community healthcare and supply of temporary staff on an agency basis.
Additionally, the inclusion of Tascor, acquired in January 2016, subsequently renamed Care & Custody Health and retained by Mitie following the disposal of the Healthcare business in February 2017, was regarded as part of the Healthcare CGU, rather than with the CGU that included Care & Custody Soft FM CGU.
Had these been regarded as prior year errors rather than changes in judgement, the amount of the prior year adjustment would have increased by 44.0m.
com 127 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2.
19BCritical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued The Directors have specifically reviewed the IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors definition of a change in accounting estimate which states that changes in accounting estimates result from new information or new developments and, accordingly, are not corrections of errors.
The Audit Committee has carefully reconsidered the judgements it made in the light of the discovery of new information and notwithstanding this becoming available and taken into account, considers that the judgements made as to what should be classified as a prior year error have been formed on a reasonable basis.
However, the Audit Committee recognises that the failure to disclose these judgements in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was in itself a material disclosure deficiency.
Measurement and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets The measurement of intangible assets other than goodwill on a business combination involves estimation of future cash flows and the selection of suitable discount rates.
Determining whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGUs to which the goodwill has been allocated.
The value in use calculation involves an estimation of the future cash flows of CGUs and also the selection of appropriate discount rates to use in order to calculate present values.
The carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets is 397.1m 2016 restated: 504.1m at the balance sheet date: see Notes 14 and 15.
A sensitivity analysis has been performed and the Board has concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions would result in an impairment of the goodwill of the Soft Facilities Management and Hard Facilities Management CGUs.
Further sensitivity testing was performed for the Groups Property Management CGU where the financial performance of the business has deteriorated during the year.
On the basis of this review the Board has concluded that an impairment of 15.0m is required.
A sensitivity analysis is included in Note 14.
Useful economic life of other intangible assets The Group held 53.2m of other intangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date, of which 46.9m is attributable to software and development expenditure.
Determining the appropriate useful economic life UEL and amortisation profile for these assets requires a level of judgement.
Following the review of accounting policies and estimates as discussed in the section above, a more accurate application of the accounting policy has been applied.
The Group has undertaken a reassessment of the UEL of software related intangible assets and has adopted a revised amortisation profile for these assets.
This change in estimate results in an additional 7.5m of amortisation in the year ended 31 March 2016.
Provisions, contingent liabilities and onerous contracts The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims that are in the ordinary course of business.
Judgements are required in order to assess whether these legal proceedings and claims are probable and the liability can be reasonably estimated, resulting in a provision.
Or, alternatively, whether the items meet the definition of contingent liabilities.
When a contract is expected to incur future unavoidable losses and has therefore become onerous, judgment is required to assess the future expected revenue and costs and hence to determine the appropriate level of provision.
Provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore in making a reliable estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities judgement is applied and re-evaluated at each reporting date.
The Group recognised provisions at 31 March 2017 of 26.8m 2016 restated: 9.0m.
Further details are included in Note 29.
Measurement of defined benefit pension obligations The measurement of defined benefit obligations requires judgement.
It is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates, life expectancy rates, future returns on assets and future contribution rates.
The present value of defined benefit obligations at the balance sheet date is 263.3m 2016: 201.9m : see Note 38 for further detail and a sensitivity analysis.
23BRevenue 2017 2016 Restated Continuing operations m m Rendering of services 2,124.6 2,141.9 Construction contracts 1.7 5.0 Total revenue as disclosed in the consolidated income statement 2,126.3 2,146.9 Investment revenue Note 9 0.1 Total revenue as defined in IAS 18 2,126.3 2,147.0 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatement included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
128 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4.
25BBusiness and geographical segments Revenue, operating profit before other items and operating profit margin before other items are the primary measures of performance that are reported to and reviewed by the chief operating decision maker of the business.
Business segments structure during the year The group manages its business on a service division basis.
With effect from 1 April 2016, the divisional structure was reorganised into three trading divisions being Facilities Management, Property Management and Healthcare.
These divisions are the basis on which the group reported its primary segmental information and are unchanged from the previous reporting period, with the exception of Soft FM and Hard FM, which were previously reported separately and then subsequently reported as one Facilities Management division, and Tilley Roofing which transferred from Facilities Management to Property Management and Care and Custody which transferred from Facilities Management to Healthcare.
Other items are as described in Note 5.
See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Other items can be analysed by business segment as follows: Facilities Management 15.6m 2016: 4.7m : Property Management 20.7m 2016: 1.6m : and Healthcare 0.3m 2016: nil.
Other items in respect of discontinued operations is comprised of amounts in respect of the impairment of goodwill, loss on disposal of the healthcare business, restructuring costs and acquisition related items.
All of these amounts are shown before tax.
Impairments have been recognised in the Property Management 15.0m 2016: nil and the discontinued Healthcare 81.1m 2016: 26.0m segments.
Tilley Roofing has transferred from Facilities Management to Property Management in the segments above.
Tilley Roofing results included in Property Management are as follows Revenue 34.8m 2016: 34.4m, Operating profit before other items 0.8m 2016: 1.5m, and Profit before tax 0.7m 2016: 1.6m.
Business segments structure from 1 April 2017.
The Property Management division has been combined into a Public Services division along with Care & Custody Health and Care & Custody, which were previously included within the Healthcare and Facilities Management divisions respectively.
The Facilities Management division has been split out into Cleaning & Environmental Services, Security, Catering, Engineering Services and Professional Services & Connected Workspace.
com 129 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 4.
Other items can be analysed by business segment as follows: Cleaning & Environmental Services 1.3m 2016: nil, Security 0.6m 2016: 0.2m, Catering 0.4m 2016: 0.3m, Engineering Services 8.8m 2016: 3.5m, Professional Services & Connected Workspace 1.5m 2016: 0.5m, Public Services 17.9m 2016: 1.5m and Corporate overheads 6.1m 2016: 0.3m.
Impairments have been recognised in the Public Services 15.0m 2016: nil and the discontinued Healthcare 81.1m 2016: 26.0m No single customer accounted for more than 10% of external revenue in 2017 or 2016.
IFRS 8 requires that a measure of segment assets should be disclosed only if that amount is regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and consequently no segment assets are disclosed.
Geographical segments 2017 2016 Restated Operating Operating profit loss Operating profit loss Operating margin profit loss margin profit loss before Profit loss before other before other Profit loss 1 1 1 Revenue before other items before tax Revenue items items before tax 1 m other items % m m m % m United Kingdom 2,018.1 4.8 0.2 54.8 2,060.3 117.9 5.7 96.5 Other countries 108.2 1.5 1.4 3.4 86.6 4.0 4.6 4.6 Continuing operations 2,126.3 6.3 0.3 58.2 2,146.9 113.9 5.3 91.9 United Kingdom 59.2 12.0 20.1 135.2 75.8 5.9 7.8 42.0 Other countries Discontinued operations 59.2 12.0 20.1 135.2 75.8 5.9 7.8 42.0 Total 2,185.5 18.3 0.8 193.4 2,222.7 108.0 4.9 49.9 Notes: 1.
See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year adjustments included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
130 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25.
27BOther items The Group separately reports the impairment of goodwill, the write-off and amortisation of acquisition related intangible assets, the results of disposals, restructure costs, acquisition costs and other exceptional items and their related tax effect as other items: 2017 Acquisition Impairment Healthcare Restructure related of goodwill disposal costs items Total Continuing operations m m m m m Administrative expenses 15.0 14.9 6.7 36.6 Other items before tax 15.0 14.9 6.7 36.6 Tax 3.0 1.1 4.1 Other items after tax 15.0 11.9 5.6 32.5 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations net of tax 81.1 30.4 0.3 9.2 121.0 Total 96.1 30.4 12.2 14.8 153.5 2016 Restated Acquisition Impairment Businesses Restructure related of goodwill credit Total being exited items Continuing operations m m m m m Administrative expenses 2.2 2.2 6.3 6.3 Other items before tax 2.2 2.2 6.3 6.3 Tax 0.4 0.4 1.3 1.3 Other items after tax 1.8 1.8 5.0 5.0 Discontinued operations Loss from discontinued operations net of tax 26.0 8.0 34.0 Total 26.0 1.8 1.8 13.0 39.0 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Impairment of goodwill Following the Boards decision to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market, the remaining carrying value of goodwill for the Healthcare CGU was fully impaired during the year.
In addition an impairment of 15.0m has been recognised in relation to the Property Management CGU.
See Note 14 for further details.
Healthcare disposal During the year the Group decided to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market and completed the sale of the Healthcare division on 28 February 2017.
See Note 6 for further details.
Restructure costs The restructure costs included in other items relate to one-off costs of organisational change associated with the Groups cost efficiency and change programmes.
These one-off incremental expenses are analysed below: Continuing Discontinued operations operations 2017 2016 m m m m Credit from design & build asset management contracts in Energy Solutions 2.2 Redundancy payments 9.2 0.3 9.5 Cost of change team 3.4 3.4 Expenditure and provisions in respect of property closure 2.3 0.1 2.4 Restructuring costs credit 14.9 0.4 15.3 2.2 Taxation 3.0 0.1 3.1 0.4 Restructuring costs credit net of taxation 11.9 0.3 12.2 1.8 www.
com 131 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 25.
27BOther items continued Acquisition related items Acquisition related items include the write-offs and amortisation charge for acquisition related intangibles 5.5m 2016: 6.0m, the accrual of contingent consideration that is required to be treated as remuneration 0.9m 2016: nil and acquisition costs 0.3m 2016: 0.3m.
Acquisition related items from discontinued operations relate to the impairment and amortisation of acquisition related intangibles net of tax 9.2m 2016: 8.0m.
See Note 15 for further details.
Discontinued operations and disposal of subsidiaries As a result of the Boards decision to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market, the sale of the Healthcare division completed on 28 February 2017.
The disposal resulted in the control of Enara Group Limited Enara and Complete Care Holdings Limited Complete Care passing to Apposite Capital LLP Apposite for 2.
In addition, the Group agreed to contribute 9.5m towards the trading losses of the business and the turnaround plan.
The trading results of the Healthcare business have been classified as discontinued operations as defined by IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
The net assets of Healthcare at the date of disposal were as follows: 2017 m Non-current assets Other intangible assets 1.5 Property, plant and equipment 1.1 Deferred tax assets 0.4 Total non-current assets 3.0 Current assets Trade and other receivables 14.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.7 Total current assets 16.4 Total assets 19.4 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 5.3 Financing liabilities 0.1 Current tax liabilities 0.4 Total current liabilities 5.8 Net assets 13.6 Deferred contribution payable to purchaser 9.5 Other costs of disposal 7.3 Total consideration Loss on disposal 30.4 Net cash outflow arising on disposal: Consideration on disposal Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 1.7 1.7 Of the 9.5m contribution to trading losses, nil was paid during the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
The Group paid 5.4m of the contribution to Apposite on 3 April 2017.
The remaining 4.1m is payable on 1 July 2017.
132 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26.
Discontinued operations and disposal of subsidiaries continued The results of the Healthcare discontinued operations in the current and prior periods are presented below: 2017 2016 m m Revenue 59.2 75.8 Cost of sales 48.8 60.7 Gross profit 10.4 15.1 Administrative expenses 22.4 21.0 Operating loss before other items 12.0 5.9 Other items 123.2 36.1 Operating loss before tax 135.2 42.0 Tax 2.8 3.0 Loss from discontinued operations for the year 132.4 39.0 Of the 2.8m 2016: 3.0m of tax credits included in the above results, 2.2m 2016: 2.1m relates to other items.
The effect of discontinued operations on segment results is disclosed in Note 4.
Cash flows from discontinued operations included in the consolidated cash flow statement are as follows: 2017 2016 m m Net cash flows from operating activities after tax 8.8 9.4 Net cash flows from investing activities 0.4 0.4 Net cash flows from financing activities 9.2 9.8 37.
31BOperating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging: 2017 2016 Restated Continuing and discontinued operations m m Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Note 16 14.1 15.1 Amortisation of intangible assets Note 15 23.8 17.0 Impairment of goodwill Note 14 96.1 26.0 Impairment of other intangible assets Note 15 3.0 1.0 Impairment of acquisition related intangible assets Note 15 10.1 6.2 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 1.0 Loss on disposal of subsidiary Note 6 30.4 Impairment loss recognised on trade receivables Note 19 13.9 2.1 Write-downs of inventories recognised as an expense 1.4 Impairment loss recognised on accrued income 4.5 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016. www.
com 133 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 37.
31BOperating profit continued A detailed analysis of auditors remuneration is provided below: 2017 2016 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 40 35 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for the audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1,037 731 Total audit fees 1,077 766 Other audit related services to the Group 70 59 Tax services 85 74 Corporate finance service 53 Other services 15 22 Total non-audit fees 170 208 Total 1,247 974 The tax services expense recognised in the year to 31 March 2017 relates to the financial years ended 31 March 2016 76k and 31 March 2015 9k.
35BStaff costs 2017 2016 Number of people Restated The average number of people employed during the financial year was: Facilities Management 49,585 51,499 Property Management 2,354 2,498 Healthcare 4,340 5,335 Total Group 56,279 59,332 The number of people employed at 31 March was: Total Group 52,798 59,591 2016 2017 Restated Their aggregate remuneration comprised: m m Wages and salaries 1,068.9 1,026.0 Social security costs 82.2 79.2 Other pension costs 16.7 21.3 Share-based payments Note 37 6.2 5.2 Total 1,174.0 1,131.7 Details of Directors remuneration and interests are provided in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report and should be regarded as an integral part of this Note.
37BInvestment revenue 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Interest on bank deposits 0.1 134 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38B10.
39BFinance costs 2017 2016 Continuing operations m m Interest on bank facilities 3.1 3.6 Interest on private placement loan notes 9.6 9.6 Bank fees 1.0 1.1 Interest on obligations under finance leases 0.2 0.2 Gain arising on derivatives in a designated fair value hedge 4.9 0.8 Loss arising on adjustment for the hedged item in a designated fair value hedge 5.0 0.9 Net interest on defined benefit pension scheme assets and liabilities 1.3 1.2 Total 15.3 15.8 411.
41BTax 2017 2016 Restated Continuing and discontinued operations m m Current tax 0.9 17.0 Deferred tax Note 23 9.3 1.8 Tax credit change for the year 10.2 15.2 Continuing operations 7.4 18.2 Discontinued operations Note 6 2.8 3.0 Tax credit change for the year 10.2 15.2 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Corporation tax is calculated at 20% 2016: 20% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
A reconciliation of the tax charge to the elements of loss before tax per the consolidated income statement elements is as follows: 2017 2016 Restated Before Other Before Other other items items Total other items items Total Continuing and discontinued operations m m m m m m Loss before tax 33.6 159.8 193.4 92.3 42.4 49.9 Tax at UK rate of 20% 2016: 20% 6.7 32.0 38.7 18.5 8.5 10.0 Reconciling tax charges for: Non-tax deductible charges 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.2 Share-based payments 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 Loss on disposal of business 6.1 6.1 Impairment of goodwill 19.2 19.2 5.2 5.2 Overseas tax rates 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 Impact of change in statutory tax rates 1.2 0.1 1.3 0.1 0.1 0.2 Prior year adjustments 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.0 Tax credit charge for the year 3.9 6.3 10.2 18.6 3.4 15.2 Effective tax rate for the year 11.5% 3.9% 5.3% 20.1% 8.0% 30.4% See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
In addition to the amounts charged to the consolidated income statement, tax credits relating to retirement benefit costs and hedged items amounting to 6.1m 2016: 2.1m charge have been taken directly to the statement of comprehensive income and 0.3m relating to share-based payments has been charged 2016: 0.1m credited directly to equity.
The effective tax rate on profit before other items is generally higher than the statutory tax rate due to entertaining costs, commercial property depreciation and share-based payment charges not being wholly tax deductible and tax losses incurred overseas.
However, as losses were incurred in 2017 the effective rate is lower than the statutory tax rate due to permanent differences such as those described above and the impact of a change in tax rates.
The UK corporation tax rate reduced from 20% to 19% from 1 April 2017 and will reduce to 17% from 1 April 2020.
This will reduce the Groups future current tax charge accordingly.
The UK deferred tax assets and liabilities at 31 March 2017 have been adjusted to reflect these changes.
A current tax provision is recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
com 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 412.
43BDividends 2017 2016 m m Amounts recognised as distributions in the year: Final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2016 of 6.7p 2015: 6.5p per share 23.3 23.1 Interim dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of 4.0p 2016: 5.4p per share 14.1 19.2 37.4 42.3 Proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017 of nil 2016: 6.7p per share 23.4 413.
45BEarnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share have been calculated in accordance with IAS 33 Earnings per share.
The calculation of the basic and diluted EPS is based on the following data: 2017 2016 Restated From continuing operations m m Net loss profit before other items attributable to equity holders of the parent 19.1 76.6 Other items net of tax 32.5 5.0 Net loss profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 51.6 71.6 2017 2016 Restated From continuing and discontinued operations m m Net loss profit before other items attributable to equity holders of the parent 30.5 71.6 Other items net of tax 153.5 39.0 Net loss profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 184.0 32.6 2017 2016 Number of shares million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of basic EPS 351.0 355.4 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: share options 3.7 4.1 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purpose of diluted EPS 354.7 359.5 2017 2016 Restated p p From continuing operations: Basic loss earnings before other items per share 5.5 21.6 Basic loss earnings per share 14.7 20.1 Diluted loss earnings before other items per share 5.4 21.3 Diluted loss earnings per share 14.6 19.9 From continuing and discontinued operations: Basic loss earnings before other items per share 8.7 20.1 Basic loss earnings per share 52.4 9.2 Diluted loss earnings before other items per share 8.6 19.9 Diluted loss earnings per share 51.9 9.1 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatement included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year excludes those accounted for in the own shares reserve see Note 33.
136 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 414.
47BGoodwill m Cost At 1 April 2015 464.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.7 Impact of foreign exchange 0.4 At 1 April 2016 465.5 Change in consideration C&C Health 0.1 Disposal of subsidiary 107.1 Impact of foreign exchange 0.6 At 31 March 2017 358.9 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2015 Impairment of healthcare goodwill restated 26.0 At 1 April 2016 - restated 26.0 Impairment of healthcare goodwill 81.1 Impairment of property goodwill 15.0 Disposal of subsidiary 107.1 At 31 March 2017 15.0 Carrying amount At 31 March 2017 343.9 At 31 March 2016 - restated 439.5 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
Impairment of healthcare goodwill As explained in Note 6 to these Financial Statements, during the financial year the Board decided to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market and the sale of the Healthcare division was completed on 28 February 2017.
In light of the Groups decision to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market and the healthcare loss recorded in the first half of the year, the Group undertook an impairment review of the goodwill and intangible assets associated with the Healthcare business.
This reassessment of the estimate of the recoverable amount of the Healthcare CGU resulted in a full impairment of the carrying value of goodwill and acquisition related intangible assets for the Healthcare CGU.
Goodwill impairment testing Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash-generating units CGUs that are expected to benefit from that business combination.
Additions during the prior year relate to goodwill recognised on one acquisition.
More details are presented in Note 34.
Goodwill has been allocated to CGUs, which align with the business segments, as this is how goodwill is monitored by the Group internally.
The Group tests goodwill at least annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indicators that goodwill may be impaired.
A summary of the goodwill balances and discount rates used to assess the forecast cash flows from the CGUs is as follows: Discount Discount Goodwill Goodwill rate rate 2017 2016 2017 2016 Restated % % m m Facilities Management Soft 8.4 7.9 172.4 171.8 Facilities Management Hard 8.5 8.0 101.3 101.3 Property Management 12.1 9.2 70.2 85.2 Healthcare 9.1 81.2 343.9 439.5 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016. www.
com 137 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 414.
47BGoodwill continued Key assumptions The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The key assumptions for the value in use calculations are those regarding the discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to revenue and direct costs during the period.
Management estimates discount rates using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the CGUs.
The growth rates are based on forecast inflation.
Changes in revenue and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market.
Growth rates and terminal values The group prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent one year financial budgets approved by the Board, extrapolated for four future years by the expected growth applicable to each unit with a terminal value using an inflationary growth rate assumption of 2.0%.
Discount rates The pre-tax discount rates used to assess the forecast cash flows from CGUs are derived from the Companys post-tax Weighted Average Cost of Capital, which was 7.3% at 31 March 2017 2016: 7.0%, and is adjusted for the risks specific to the business being assessed and the market in which the CGU operates.
All CGUs have the same access to the Groups treasury functions and borrowing lines to fund their operations.
Sensitivity analysis A sensitivity analysis has been performed and the Directors have concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions would result in an impairment of the goodwill of any of the Soft Facilities Management and Hard Facilities Management CGUs.
In particular, a 1% increase in the discount rate or a 1% decrease in the terminal value growth rate would not result in impairment in any of these CGUs.
Impairment testing for new business segment structure As detailed in Note 4 to the financial statements the business segments structure has been amended from 1 April 2017.
This amendment to business segment structure has necessitated a restructuring of the CGUs categorisation used for goodwill impairment testing.
A summary of the goodwill balances and discount rates used to assess the forecast cash flows from the CGUs within the new business segment structure is as follows: Pre-tax Post-tax discount discount Goodwill rate rate 2017 % % m Cleaning & Environmental Services 8.4 7.3 33.1 Security 8.4 7.3 101.7 Catering 9.1 7.8 15.7 Engineering Services 8.4 7.3 107.5 Professional Services & Connected Workspace 10.3 8.8 15.7 Public Services 12.1 9.8 70.2 Total Group 343.9 Impairment testing and sensitivity analyses have been undertaken for the CGUs in this new structure and the Directors have concluded that no reasonably foreseeable change in the key assumptions would result in an impairment of the goodwill of any of the Cleaning & Environmental Services, Security, Catering, Engineering Services or Professional Services & Connected Workspace CGUs.
138 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 414.
47BGoodwill continued Review of the carrying value of goodwill in the Property Management CGU In the year the Property Management CGU which now forms the bulk of the Public Services CGU reported a loss of 9.2m principally from irrecoverable debts and accrued income in certain contracts which are being exited.
As part of its annual review of impairment, the Group has updated its estimate of the recoverable amount of the CGU, including various downside scenarios, which has resulted in an impairment of 15.0m being taken and a goodwill carrying value of 70.2m at 31 March 2017.
Key assumptions The key assumptions underpinning the calculations of the net present value of future cash flows include: the calculations are based on a five year plan approved by the Board: adjusted revenue of 267.4m in FY17 and compound annual revenue growth of 2.9%: adjusted operating profit of 10.2m after management charges underpinning the growth in operating margin of 1.3% over the first five years of the plan.
This includes the best estimate of the outcome of contractual disputes discussed further in Note 35: a terminal value growth rate of 2.0%, based on inflationary projections: and pre-tax discount rate for the CGU of 12.1% which has been adjusted for the risks specific to the market in which the CGU operates.
In reviewing the carrying value, the following factors have also been considered: circumstances surrounding the in-year loss and future trading expectations: the controls framework in the Property Management business: macro pressures in the social housing market: route to new sales: and management resource to deliver the budget.
Sensitivity analysis for Property Management CGU impairment testing The value in use calculations are reliant on the accuracy of managements forecasts and the assumptions that underlie them as well as the discount rate and growth rates applied.
Sensitivity analysis was performed on the forecasts to consider the impact of certain trading scenarios and changes in assumptions both individually and in combination.
A combination of these sensitivities concluded that an impairment of 15.0m represented the Audit Committees best estimate.
A 1% change in discount rate would result in a 7.5m sensitivity.
A 1.0m change in operating profit would result in a 7.6m sensitivity.
com 139 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 15.
51BOther intangible assets Acquisition related Total Software and Customer acquisition development relationships Other related expenditure Total m m m m m Cost At 1 April 2015 88.4 10.9 99.3 55.7 155.0 Additions 8.9 8.9 Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment Note 16 8.5 8.5 At 1 April 2016 88.4 10.9 99.3 73.1 172.4 Additions 12.4 12.4 Disposal of subsidiary 2.9 2.9 Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment Note 16 14.5 14.5 Impact of foreign exchange 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2017 88.4 10.9 99.3 97.3 196.6 Amortisation At 1 April 2015 restated 51.2 8.8 60.0 21.2 81.2 Charge for the year restated 9.5 0.4 9.9 7.1 17.0 Impairment of intangible asset restated 1.0 1.0 Impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 6.2 6.2 6.2 Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment Note 16 2.4 2.4 At 1 April 2016 Restated 66.9 9.2 76.1 31.7 107.8 Charge for the year 6.4 0.4 6.8 17.0 23.8 Impairment of software and development expenditure 3.0 3.0 Impairment of acquisition related intangible assets 10.1 10.1 10.1 Disposal of subsidiary 1.4 1.4 Impact of foreign exchange 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2017 83.4 9.6 93.0 50.4 143.4 Carrying amount At 31 March 2017 5.0 1.3 6.3 46.9 53.2 At 31 March 2016 restated 21.5 1.7 23.2 41.4 64.6 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
Customer relationships are amortised over their useful lives based on the period of time over which they are anticipated to generate benefits.
These currently range from four to eight years.
Other acquisition related intangibles include acquired software and technology which are amortised over their useful lives which currently range from three to ten years.
Software and development costs are amortised over their useful lives of between five and ten years, once they have been brought into use.
During the year the Group has undertaken a reassessment of the useful economic life of software and development expenditure related intangible assets and has adopted a revised amortisation profile for these assets.
This change in accounting estimate resulted in an additional 7.5m of amortisation in the year ended 31 March 2017.
The customer relationships relating to the healthcare business were impairment tested at 30 September 2016 in accordance with IAS 36 following the decision to withdraw from the domiciliary healthcare market and the healthcare loss recorded in the half year.
As a result, an impairment of 10.1m 2016: 6.2m was recognised.
Reclassifications from property, plant and equipment relate to completed software and development expenditure which was held in plant and vehicles whilst being developed.
140 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 516.
53BProperty, plant and equipment Freehold Leasehold Plant and properties properties vehicles Total m m m m Cost At 1 April 2015 2.7 18.0 109.4 130.1 Additions 0.6 18.6 19.2 Acquired with subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Reclassifications to intangible assets Note 15 8.5 8.5 Reclassifications within property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.5 Disposals 1.1 0.3 17.2 18.6 At 1 April 2016 1.6 18.8 102.0 122.4 Additions 0.3 14.4 14.7 Reclassifications to intangible assets Note 15 14.5 14.5 Disposals 0.3 2.3 25.3 27.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 5.3 5.4 Impact of foreign exchange 0.1 0.2 0.3 At 31 March 2017 1.3 16.8 71.5 89.6 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At 1 April 2015 0.6 8.4 67.8 76.8 Charge for the year 0.1 1.4 13.6 15.1 Reclassifications to intangible assets Note 15 2.4 2.4 Reclassifications within property, plant and equipment 0.3 0.3 Disposals 0.2 0.3 15.9 16.4 At 1 April 2016 0.5 9.8 62.8 73.1 Charge for the year 1.5 12.6 14.1 Disposals 0.1 0.7 25.1 25.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 4.3 4.3 Impact of foreign exchange 0.3 0.3 At 31 March 2017 0.4 10.6 46.3 57.3 Carrying amount At 31 March 2017 0.8 6.2 25.2 32.3 At 31 March 2016 1.1 9.0 39.2 49.3 The net book value of plant and vehicles held under finance leases included above was 2.8m 2016: 4.0m.
Additions to plant and vehicles during the year amounting to 0.2m 2016: 3.5m were financed by new finance leases.
55BInterest in joint ventures and associates The Groups interests in joint ventures and associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method.
The Groups share of result of joint ventures and associates included in the consolidated income statement was as follows: 2017 2016 m m Revenue 3.7 3.9 Operating profit 0.6 0.6 Share of profit of joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 www.
com 141 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 517.
57BInterest in joint ventures and associates continued The Groups share of net assets of joint ventures and associates as at 31 March 2017 was as follows: 2017 2016 m m Non-current assets Current assets 0.8 0.9 Current liabilities 0.2 0.3 Non-current liabilities Interest in joint ventures and associates 0.6 0.6 Joint ventures and associate undertakings are not material to the Group.
None have significant restrictions on the ability to transfer funds to the Group in the form of cash dividends, or to repay loans or advances made by the Group.
These results have been taken from unaudited management accounts.
Derivative financial instruments 2017 2016 Derivative financial instruments Note 28 m m Included in current assets 35.8 Included in non-current assets 14.4 Total 35.8 14.4 0B19.
61BTrade and other receivables 2017 2016 Restated m m Amounts receivable for the sale of services 201.8 212.8 Provision for doubtful debts 16.2 4.6 Trade receivables 185.6 208.2 Amounts recoverable on construction contracts Note 20 0.1 2.6 Mobilisation costs Note 22 21.0 28.6 Accrued income 178.1 224.1 Prepayments 22.7 35.9 Other debtors# 23.8 17.5 Total 431.3 516.9 Included in current assets 381.0 432.1 Included in non-current assets 50.3 84.8 Total 431.3 516.9 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
Non-current trade and other receivables comprise accrued income on long-term complex contracts of 40.8m 2016 restated: 67.5m and mobilisation costs of 9.5m 2016 restated: 17.3m which are further analysed in Notes 21 and 22 respectively.
Prepayments include costs incurred for fixed price services where income will be recognised over the contract period.
# Accrued income includes cost incurred for project and reactive works in the Engineering Services division where income will be recognised on completion.
At 31 March 2017 the Group utilised 110.7m of invoice discounting facilities 2016: 82.2m.
142 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6219.
63BTrade and other receivables continued Ageing of trade receivables: 2017 2016 Restated m m Neither impaired nor past due 159.4 157.7 Not impaired and less than three months overdue 26.8 38.1 Not impaired and more than three months overdue 15.4 14.4 Impaired receivables 0.2 2.6 Provision for doubtful debts 16.2 4.6 Total 185.6 208.2 Movement in the provision for doubtful debts: 2017 2016 Restated m m Balance at the beginning of the year 4.6 8.4 Impairment losses recognised 13.9 2.1 Amounts written off as uncollectable 0.8 4.3 Amounts recovered during the year 1.6 Disposal of business 1.5 Impact of foreign exchange Total 16.2 4.6 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
The average credit period taken on sales of services was 27 days 2016 restated: 29 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value.
65BAmounts recoverable on construction contracts 2017 2016 Restated m m Construction contract costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date 39.7 46.3 Less progress billings 39.6 43.7 Amounts due from construction contract customers included in trade and other receivables 0.1 2.6 Included in current assets 0.1 2.6 Included in non-current assets Total 0.1 2.6 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
At 31 March 2017, retentions held by customers for contract work amounted to 2.3m 2016: 4.7m and were held in accrued income.
com 143 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 B21.
67BAccrued income on long-term complex contracts 2017 2016 Restated m m At 1 April 70.6 43.8 Amounts recognised in the income statement 20.4 26.8 At 31 March 50.2 70.6 Included in current assets 9.4 3.1 Included in non-current assets 40.8 67.5 Total 50.2 70.6 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
21.2m of the accrued income on long-term complex contracts is attributable to transition costs 2016: 26.5m.
69BMobilisation costs 2017 2016 m m At 1 April 28.6 30.6 Additions 12.4 12.0 Amounts recognised in the income statement 20.0 14.0 At 31 March 21.0 28.6 Included in current assets 11.5 11.3 Included in non-current assets 9.5 17.3 Total 21.0 28.6 Under IFRS 15 mobilisation costs will be replaced by fulfilment costs.
The criteria for capitalising costs as a fulfilment cost will be focused on the individual task being performed.
The potential impact of this is being reviewed as part of the overall IFRS 15 review project.
144 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 70B23.
71BDeferred tax The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting period: Accelerated Retirement Intangible Short-term tax benefit assets Share timing Losses depreciation obligations acquired options differences Total m m m m m m m At 1 April 2015 restated 1.0 7.1 7.5 1.9 3.9 6.4 Credit charge to income 0.4 0.9 3.1 0.4 2.2 1.8 Charge credit to equity and the statement of comprehensive income 1.6 0.2 0.5 2.3 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 At 1 April 2016 restated 1.4 6.4 4.4 1.3 1.3 6.0 Credit charge to income 0.8 5.1 0.7 3.3 0.3 0.3 9.3 Charge credit to equity and the statement of comprehensive income 5.5 0.3 0.6 5.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries At 31 March 2017 0.8 6.5 12.6 1.1 0.7 1.6 21.1 Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset.
The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances after offset for financial reporting purposes: 2016 2017 Restated m m Deferred tax assets 22.2 10.4 Deferred tax liabilities 1.1 4.4 Net deferred tax asset 21.1 6.0 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
The Group has unutilised income tax losses of 14.2m 2016: 9.3m that are available for offset against future profits.
In addition the Group has 0.8m 2016: 0.8m of capital losses.
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of certain unutilised losses and allowances on the basis that there are expected future profits to be generated.
Deferred tax has been calculated using the corporation tax rates disclosed in Note 11.
75BCash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents 129.1 93.1 Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the Group and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of the assets approximates their fair value.
Included in cash and cash equivalents are deposits totalling 0.6m 2016: 0.9m held by the Groups insurance subsidiary, which are not readily available for the general purposes of the Group.
At 31 March 2017 the Group utilised 110.7m 2016: 82.2m of invoice discounting facilities.
com 145 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 76B26.
77BTrade and other payables 2017 2016 Restated m m Payments received on account 1.8 0.1 Trade creditors 244.7 206.8 Other taxes and social security 84.3 82.7 Other creditors 24.5 9.6 Accruals 160.4 151.4 Deferred income 47.6 48.0 Total 563.3 498.6 Included in current liabilities 559.9 496.1 Included in non-current liabilities 3.4 2.5 Total 563.3 498.6 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of 31 March 2016.
Trade creditors, accruals and deferred income principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 71 days 2016: 40 days.
The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value.
79B Financing liabilities 2017 2016 m m Bank loans under committed facilities 15.3 13.6 Private placement notes 294.0 268.2 Obligations under finance leases Note 30 2.8 4.0 Total 312.1 285.8 Included in current liabilities 310.8 1.9 Included in non-current liabilities 1.3 283.9 Total 312.1 285.8 As discussed in Note 42, subsequent to the reporting period, on 7 June 2017, the Groups lenders agreed an amendment to covenant calculation definitions.
In accordance with the requirements of IAS 1, it has been necessary to classify the drawn amounts on the funding arrangements as current rather than non-current liabilities.
The final maturity dates of all facilities remain unchanged.
The banking facilities and private placement notes are unsecured but have financial and non-financial covenants and obligations commonly associated with these arrangements.
Included in current financing liabilities are 1.5m 2016: 1.9m of obligations under finance leases see Note 30.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments and the private placement notes, all financing liabilities are held at amortised cost.
The Directors estimate that their carrying value approximates their fair value.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value at the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value through profit or loss unless they are designated as hedges for which hedge accounting can be applied see Note 28.
The carrying value of the private placement notes at 31 March 2017 includes a fair value adjustment for interest rate and currency risk of 0.2m 2016: 0.7m.
The fair value of the private placement notes is not significantly different from their carrying value.
At 31 March 2017, the Group had available 257.9m 2016: 259.4m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities in respect of which all conditions precedent had been met.
The facilities have an expiry date of July 2021.
The loans carry interest rates which are currently determined at 1.0% over LIBOR.
Details of the Groups contingent liabilities are provided in Note 35.
146 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 78B27.
79BFinancing liabilities continued The weighted average interest rates paid during the year on the overdrafts and loans outstanding were as follows: 2017 2016 % % Overdrafts 2.1 2.1 Bank loans 1.2 1.3 Private placement notes 3.8 3.8 Private placement notes On 13 December 2012, the Group issued US$153.0m and 55.0m of private placement PP notes in the United States Private Placement market.
This followed the issue on 16 December 2010 of US$96.0m and 40.0m of PP notes in the United States Private Placement market.
The PP notes are unsecured and rank pari passu with other senior unsecured indebtedness of the Group.
In order to manage the risk of foreign currency fluctuations and to manage the Groups finance costs through a mix of fixed and variable rate debt, the Group has entered into cross currency interest rate swaps.
The swap contracts have the same duration and other critical terms as the borrowings and are considered to be highly effective.
The amount, maturity and interest terms of the PP notes are as shown below: Tranche Maturity date Amount Interest terms Swap interest 7 year 16 December 2017 US$48.0m US$ fixed at 3.39% fixed at 3.88% 7 year 16 December 2017 US$48.0m US$ fixed at 3.39% LIBOR 1.26% 9 year 16 December 2019 40.0m fixed at 4.38% n a 10 year 16 December 2022 US$76.0m US$ fixed at 3.85% fixed at 4.05% 10 year 16 December 2022 US$77.0m US$ fixed at 3.85% fixed at 4.02% 10 year 16 December 2022 25.0m fixed at 3.87% n a 12 year 16 December 2024 30.0m fixed at 4.04% n a 28.
83BFinancial instruments Classification The Groups principal financial assets are cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables and derivative financial instruments.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, all financial assets are classified as loans and receivables.
The Groups principal financial liabilities are trade payables, financing liabilities and deferred contingent consideration.
With the exception of derivative financial instruments, private placement notes and deferred contingent consideration, all financial liabilities are held at amortised cost.
Derivative financial instruments and private placement loan notes are measured initially at fair value at the date the contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value through the income statement unless they are designated as hedges for which hedge accounting can be applied.
Deferred contingent consideration is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation.
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted including the criteria for recognition, the basis of measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expense for each class of financial asset, financial liability and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 1.
Risk management objectives The Groups treasury function monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group.
These risks include those arising from interest rates, foreign currencies, liquidity, credit and capital management.
The Group seeks to minimise the effects of these risks by using effective control measures and, where appropriate, derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by Group policies and reviewed regularly.
Group policy is not to trade in financial instruments.
The risk management policies remain unchanged from the previous year.
Interest rate risk The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of interest rates.
The Groups treasury function reviews its risk management strategy on a regular basis and will appropriately enter into derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate risk.
Having issued US$249.0m and 95.0m of notes in the US PP fixed rate market, the Group has swapped US$48.0m into floating rate debt.
com 147 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 28.
83BFinancial instruments continued Interest rate sensitivity The interest rate sensitivity has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and nonderivative instruments at the balance sheet date.
For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year.
All financial liabilities, other than financing liabilities, are interest free.
If interest rates had been 0.5% higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups profit after tax for the year ended 31 March 2017 and reserves would decrease increase by 0.8m 2016: 0.6m.
Foreign currency risk The Group has limited exposure to transactional foreign currency risk from trading transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of individual group entities and some exposure to translational foreign currency risk from the translation of its operations in Europe.
The Group considers the need to hedge its exposures appropriately and will enter into forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate any significant risks.
In addition, the Group has fully hedged the US dollar exposure on its PP notes into sterling using cross currency interest rate swaps see Hedging activities below.
At 31 March 2017 6.9m 2016: 5.0m of cash and cash equivalents were held in foreign currencies.
Included in bank loans were 17.1m 2016: 15.6m of loans denominated in foreign currency.
Liquidity risk The Group monitors its liquidity risk using a cash flow projection model which considers the maturity of the Groups assets and liabilities and the projected cash flows from operations.
Bank facilities, which allow for appropriate headroom in the Groups daily cash movements, are then arranged.
Details of the Groups bank facilities can be found in Note 27.
The tables below summarise the maturity profile including both undiscounted interest and principal cash flows of the Groups financial liabilities: In the second Within to fifth After one year years five years Total Financial liabilities at 31 March 2017 m m m m Trade creditors 244.7 244.7 Other creditors 24.5 24.5 Financing liabilities 106.2 70.2 181.2 357.6 Deferred contingent consideration 0.3 0.3 Financial liabilities 375.7 70.2 181.2 627.1 In the second Within to fifth After one year years five years Total Financial liabilities at 31 March 2016 m m m m Trade creditors 206.8 206.8 Other creditors 9.6 9.6 Financing liabilities 28.5 140.6 170.8 339.9 Deferred contingent consideration 0.4 0.4 Financial liabilities 245.3 140.6 170.8 556.7 Credit risk The Groups credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and formally reported quarterly.
The value of business placed with financial institutions is reviewed on a daily basis.
The Groups credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit ratings assigned by international credit rating agencies and are managed through regular review.
The amounts presented in the balance sheet in relation to the Groups trade receivables are net of provisions for doubtful debts.
The Groups credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables.
Before accepting a new customer, the Group uses external credit scoring systems to assess the potential customers credit quality and define an appropriate credit limit which is reviewed regularly.
148 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 B28.
83BFinancial instruments continued In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the Group considers the credit quality of the counterparty.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
The Directors believe that there is no further provision required in excess of the provision for doubtful debts at the balance sheet date.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to trade receivables at the balance sheet date is the fair value of trade receivables.
The Groups customer base is large and unrelated and, accordingly, the Group does not have a significant concentration of credit risk with any one counterparty or group of counterparties.
Capital management risk The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as going concerns while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of debt and equity.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt per Note 31 and equity per the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
The Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
In 2013, the Board approved a share purchase policy to maintain share numbers at a broadly consistent level year on year with the aim of ensuring that the interests of shareholders are not diluted by the issue of shares that support the Groups various share schemes, nor by the issue of shares as consideration for earn outs under the Mitie model.
During the year, the Group bought back 9.1m 2016: 5.2m shares at a cost of 24.4m 2016: 15.2m and subsequently cancelled these shares.
From time to time shares are bought to be held in Treasury in order to offset shares issued under various share schemes and to hedge against shares to be issued in the future.
During the year, nil 2016: 2.3m shares were bought to be held in Treasury at a total cost of nil 2016: 6.6m.
Further details are provided in Notes 32 and 33.
The Group is not subject to externally imposed regulatory capital requirements with the exception of those applicable to the Groups captive insurance subsidiary, which is monitored on a regular basis.
Hedging activities Cash flow hedges The Group holds a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges on US$201.0m of PP notes.
Biannual fixed interest cash flows arising over the periods to December 2022 and denominated in US$ from the US Private Placement market are exchanged for fixed interest cash flows denominated in sterling.
All cash flow hedges were assessed as being highly effective as at 31 March 2017.
Fair value hedges The Group holds a number of cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges on US$48.0m of PP notes.
Fixed interest cash flows denominated in US$ from the US Private Placement market are exchanged for floating interest cash flows denominated in sterling.
All fair value hedges were assessed as being highly effective as at 31 March 2017.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations Included in bank loans at 31 March 2017 was a borrowing of 9.5m 2016: 9.5m which has been designated as a hedge of the net investment in the Republic of Ireland business of Dalkia FM in Ireland and is being used to hedge the Groups exposure to foreign exchange risk on this investment.
Gains or losses on the translation of the borrowing are transferred to equity to offset gains or losses on the translation of the net investment.
Derivative financial instruments The carrying values of derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet date were as follows: Assets Assets Liabilities Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges 27.0 10.3 Cross-currency interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges 8.8 4.1 Derivative financial instruments hedging private placement notes 35.8 14.4 Derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value.
Fair values of derivative financial instruments are calculated based on a discounted cash flow analysis using appropriate market information for the duration of the instruments.
com 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 28.
85BFinancial instruments continued Financial instruments fair value disclosure Fair value measurements are classified into three levels, depending on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from other observable inputs for the asset or liability: and Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques using inputs that are not based on observable market data.
The Directors consider that the derivative financial instruments fall into Level 2 and that deferred contingent consideration falls into Level 3.
Deferred contingent consideration is measured at the Directors best estimate of the likely future obligation based on the attainment of certain profit targets.
In assessing the likely future obligation, the Directors have used their experience and knowledge of market conditions, alongside internal business plans and growth forecasts.
Actual amounts payable may vary up to a maximum of 0.3m 2016: 0.4m dependent upon the results of the acquired businesses.
The following table shows the reconciliation from the opening to closing balances for Level 3 fair values: Deferred contingent consideration m At 1 April 2016 0.4 Change in consideration C&C Health Note 14 0.1 At 31 March 2017 0.3 There were no transfers between levels during the year.
All contracts are gross settled.
89BProvisions Deferred Contract Healthcare contingent Insurance Onerous costs Legal costs provision consideration reserve leases Total m m m m m m m At 1 April 2016 Restated 0.4 6.4 9.0 2.2 Amounts recognised in the income statement 2.0 6.0 7.0 0.1 3.7 18.8 Amounts recognised through goodwill 0.1 0.1 Utilised within captive insurance subsidiary 0.1 0.1 Utilised in the period 6.7 6.7 Reclassified from accruals 5.9 5.9 At 31 March 2017 2.0 6.0 0.3 12.5 0.1 5.9 26.8 Included in current liabilities 2.0 6.0 0.3 6.1 0.1 5.9 20.4 Included in non-current liabilities 6.4 6.4 Total 2.0 6.0 0.3 12.5 0.1 5.9 26.8 See Note 1 c for an explanation and analysis of the prior year restatements included above in respect of the year ended 31 March 2016.
The provisions balance includes the following items: The legal costs provision relates to professional fees payable and the potential cost of settlement of outstanding claims against the Group.
The Healthcare provision relates to the anticipated costs of separation of the Healthcare business from the Group, that is anticipated to crystallise over the next two years.
See Note 6 for more detail on disposal.
The insurance reserve provides for the self-insured element of Fleet and Liability claims that will typically settle over three to five years.
This includes a provision for claims that are expected but have not yet been reported.
Contract cost provisions relate to various obligations arising in the ordinary course of providing services in line with commercial contracts that may require settlement largely over periods up to two years.
150 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 930.
91BObligations under finance leases Minimum lease Present value payments of lease payments 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Amounts payable under finance leases: Within one year 1.7 2.0 1.5 1.9 In the second to fifth years inclusive 1.2 2.3 1.3 2.1 2.9 4.3 2.8 4.0 Less: future finance charges 0.1 0.3 Present value of lease obligations 2.8 4.0 2.8 4.0 Less: amount due for settlement within 12 months 1.5 1.9 1.5 1.9 Amount due for settlement after 12 months 1.3 2.1 1.3 2.1 The average remaining lease term is 22 months 2016: 23 months.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the average effective borrowing rate was 1.8% 2016: 4.1%.
Interest rates are fixed at the contract date.
All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.
The fair value of the Groups lease obligations approximates their carrying amount.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are protected by the lessors rights over the leased assets.
93BAnalysis of net debt 2017 2016 m m Cash and cash equivalents Note 25 129.1 93.1 Bank loans Note 27 15.3 13.6 Private placement notes Note 27 294.0 268.2 Derivative financial instruments hedging private placement notes Note 28 35.8 14.4 Net debt before obligations under finance leases 144.4 174.3 Obligations under finance leases Note 30 2.8 4.0 Net debt 147.2 178.3 932.
95BShare capital Number Ordinary shares of 2.5p million m Allotted and fully paid At 1 April 2015 375.2 9.4 Share buybacks 5.2 0.1 Issued under share option schemes 2.1 At 1 April 2016 372.1 9.3 Share buybacks 9.1 0.2 Issued for acquisitions 6.0 0.1 Issued under share option schemes 0.1 At 31 March 2017 369.1 9.2 During the year 9.1m 2016: 5.2m ordinary shares of 2.5p were purchased at a cost of 24.4m 2016: 15.2m and subsequently cancelled.
During the year 6.0m 2016: nil ordinary shares of 2.5p were allocated in respect of the acquisition of non-controlling interests at a mid-market price of 244.4p 2016: nil giving rise to share premium of 2.8m 2016: nil and merger reserve of 11.7m 2016: nil.
During the year 0.1m 2016: 2.1m ordinary shares of 2.5p were allotted in respect of share option schemes at a price between 201.0p and 260.2p 2016: 162.0p and 318.6p giving rise to share premium of 0.1m 2016: 5.1m.
com 151 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 33.
97BReserves Share premium account The share premium account represents the premium arising on the issue of equity shares see Note 32.
Merger reserve The merger reserve represents amounts relating to premiums arising on shares issued subject to the provisions of Section 612 of the Companies Act 2006.
Own shares reserve The Group uses shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust and SIP Trust to satisfy options under the Groups LTIP and SIP share option schemes respectively.
During the year nil treasury shares were purchased 2016: 2.3m at a cost of 6.6m.
Treasury shares are held so that they can be reissued at a later date if required see details of capital management risk in Note 28.
Proceeds from the issue of 1.2m 2016: 1.3m treasury shares to satisfy options under the Groups share schemes in the year were 2.4m 2016: 3.7m at a cost of 3.4m 2016: 3.8m.
The own shares reserve at 31 March 2017 represents the cost of 15.2m 2016: 17.5m ordinary shares in Mitie Group plc, with a weighted average of 16.5m 2016: 18.8m shares during the year.
Other reserves Other reserves are comprised of the share-based payment reserve of 9.4m 2016: 9.4m, the revaluation reserve of 0.2 m 2016: 0.2 m, the capital redemption reserve of 0.9m 2016: 0.5m and other reserves of 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
The share-based payment reserve represents credits relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions that have not yet fully vested see Note 37.
Hedging and translation reserve The hedging and translation reserve of 8.0 m 2016: 4.6 m includes balances in respect of the Groups cash flow hedges see Note 28.
The net cash flow hedge movement during the year of 4.8 m 2016: 2.3m is included within Other comprehensive income.
The hedging and translation reserve also includes balances arising on translation of the Groups overseas operations and in respect of net investment hedges.
99BAcquisitions Current year acquisitions purchase of non-controlling interests On 24 August 2016, the Group purchased employee minority shareholdings in three of its successful Mitie Model businesses: Mitie Business Services UK Limited MBSUKL, Mitie Technical Facilities Management Limited MTFML, and Mitie Care and Custody Limited MCCL in accordance with the respective articles of association and shareholders agreements of those companies.
The total maximum consideration for all three purchases amounted to 16.1m.
This was satisfied with 1.4m in cash and as to the remaining 14.7m by the issue of 6,015,255 new ordinary shares of 2.5p each in Mitie valued at 244.38 p per share.
This is the average of the closing middle market price for the five banking days immediately preceding 26 July 2016.
Earlier in this financial year, Mitie purchased its own shares in the market to offset this share issue.
The purchased shares were cancelled following their acquisition.
As a result of these acquisitions Mitie owns 100% of the issued share capital of MBSUKL and MTFML, and 93.14% of the issued share capital of MCCL.
The shareholdings purchased, primarily held by certain of the employees and senior management of the relevant subsidiary companies, are detailed below: MBSUKL 27.29% of the issued share capital, comprising 116,000 B ordinary shares of 0.01 each, for a consideration of 0.8m.
The consideration was satisfied by 0.1m in cash and 0.7m by the issue of 275,428 new Mitie Shares: MTFML 8.93% of the issued share capital, comprising 952,000 B ordinary shares of 0.01 each, for a consideration of 12.1m.
The consideration was satisfied by 1.0m in cash and 11.1m by the issue of 4,563,029 new Mitie Shares: and MCCL 27.42% of the issued share capital, comprising 170,022 B ordinary shares of 0.01 each, for a consideration of 3.2m.
The consideration was satisfied by 0.3m in cash and 2.9m by the issue of 1,176,798 new Mitie Shares.
Prior year acquisitions purchase of Tascor Medical Services Limited On 29 January 2016, Mitie acquired the leading UK custodial medical services provider for a total consideration of 0.6m.
The business has been renamed Care and Custody Health Limited.
The transaction has been accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with IFRS 3 revised 2008.
The provisional acquisition accounting as disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts was reviewed during the year resulting in a 0.1m reduction to the consideration payable and the value of goodwill.
152 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135.
105BContingent liabilities The Company and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to contractual disputes that arise in the ordinary course of business.
Specifically, there are three ongoing contractual disputes with clients of Mities Property Management business which are subject to claims or potential claims of a material nature.
In one instance, discussions are ongoing between the Company and the counterparty, to determine both liability and potential quantum.
In relation to the other two matters, arbitration proceedings have commenced.
The Directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings and claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position, other than as provided for in the accounts.
In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on best estimates and management judgement but there can be no guarantee that these provisions which may be subject to potentially material revision from time to time will result in an accurate prediction, due to the uncertainty of the actual costs and liabilities that may be incurred.
The Directors will continue to monitor events as matters progress.
In addition, the Company and its subsidiaries have provided guarantees and indemnities in respect of performance, issued by financial institutions on its behalf, amounting to 23.8m 2016: 23.6m in the ordinary course of business.
These are not expected to result in any material financial loss.
The Group participates in several industry multi-employer defined benefit schemes.
These multi-employer schemes have historically not been able to calculate the Groups share of net liabilities and the Group funds the schemes through paying employer pension contributions.
In the event that a multi-employer scheme is able to calculate the Groups share of net pension liability, then this liability would then be recognised in the Groups financial statements.
Where the Group or subsidiary of the Group exits such schemes, pension legislation may require the Group to fund the Groups share of the total amount of net liabilities with a one-off cash payment a section 75 debt.
Contingent liabilities related to the retirement benefit schemes are disclosed in Note 38.
There is currently a specific National Minimum Wage enquiry being undertaken by the Government in relation to two individuals in one division.
In respect of this enquiry the Directors believe their risk to be immaterial.
Based on the outcome of this enquiry, there is an uncertainty as to whether further enquiries could be initiated over a wider population across the Group.
At this stage, due to the nature and complexity of assessing compliance, it is not possible to estimate the potential economic exposure.
In common with other UK businesses with a large number of employees operating near the minimum wage, the Group is at risk of potential deficiency in respect of current and past employees.
As part of a wider HR transformation project, the Directors are reviewing the end to end HR processes and systems.
107BOperating lease arrangements The Group as lessee: 2017 2016 m m Minimum lease payments under operating leases recognised in income for the year 32.1 27.4 At the balance sheet date, the group had total outstanding aggregate commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows: 2017 2016 m m Within one year 24.7 19.7 In the second to fifth years inclusive 30.6 30.5 After five years 7.6 5.4 Total 62.9 55.6 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable by the Group for certain of its office properties and hire of vehicles and other equipment.
These leases have average durations ranging from three to ten years.
No arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
com 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 137.
109BShare-based payments The Company has six equity-settled share schemes.
The Group also awards performance-related bonuses for Executive Directors which are deferred in shares and are accounted for as a share-based payment charge.
Discretionary share plans: The Mitie Group plc Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP was introduced in 2007.
The awards of shares or rights to acquire shares the awards are offered to a small number of key senior management.
Where offered as options the exercise price is nil.
The vesting period is three years, although for awards granted in 2015 and subsequently some are subject to a holding period of up to a further two years.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of twelve months from the date of vesting the awards expire.
The awards may be forfeited if the employee leaves the Group.
Before the awards can be exercised, performance conditions must be satisfied which are based on movements in a range of market and non-market measures over a three year period.
The Mitie Group plc 2001 Executive share option scheme ESOS The ESOS exercise price is equal to the average market value of the shares over the five day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The vesting period is three years.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the options expire.
Options may be forfeited if the employee leaves the Group.
The Mitie Group plc 2011 Executive share option scheme ESOS The ESOS exercise price is equal to the average market value of the shares on the business day preceding grant or, if the Remuneration Committee decides, the average market value of shares over a number of preceding business days not to exceed 20.
Before options can be exercised, a performance condition must be satisfied: the performance condition is linked to the percentage growth in earnings per share over a three year period.
The Conditional share plan CSP The CSP was introduced in 2014.
The awards of shares or the rights to acquire shares the award are offered to a small number of key senior management.
The vesting period is determined at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and is generally two or three years.
If the awards remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant the awards expire.
Non-discretionary share plans: The Mitie Group plc 2011 SAYE scheme The SAYE scheme is open to eligible UK resident employees.
The exercise price is not less than 80% of the market value of the shares determined using either: the share price preceding the date on which invitations to participate in the scheme are issued or an average share price over five days preceding the invitation date.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of six months from the date of vesting, the options expire.
154 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137.
109BShare-based payments continued The Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP was introduced in 2011 and is open to all eligible UK resident employees.
Under the scheme, eligible employees are invited to invest in partnership shares which are purchased in the market on their behalf and held in a separate UK trust.
One matching share is awarded for every ten partnership shares purchased and has a holding period of three years.
Matching shares are funded by way of market purchases.
Details of the awards and share options outstanding during the year are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted Number of average Number of average share exercise share exercise options price options price million p million p Outstanding at 1 April 21.4 162 22.1 157 Granted during the year 7.5 87 8.1 170 Forfeited during the year 5.4 178 4.6 130 Exercised during the year 2.6 98 4.2 192 Outstanding at 31 March 20.9 141 21.4 162 Exercisable at the end of the year 3.5 213 2.2 216 The Group recognised the following expenses related to share-based payments: 2017 2016 m m Discretionary share plans 4.8 4.0 Non-discretionary share plans 1.4 1.2 6.2 5.2 The movement on the share-based payment reserve, which is part of other reserves, comprises the charge to the income statement for the year of 6.2m 2016: 5.2m net of the cumulative charge to the income statement of 6.2m 2016: 3.0m in respect of schemes that have vested in the year, which is released to retained earnings.
The share based payment entry in own share reserve of 6.8m 2016: 5.3m reflects the use of treasury shares and shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust in settlement of exercised share options.
The 2.4m 2016: 0.3m in retained earnings includes 6.2m 2016: 3.0m relating to vesting schemes described above net of the cost of shares used to settle options and dividend equivalents.
The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the year was 234p 2016: 313p.
The options outstanding at 31 March 2017 had exercise prices other than nil in the case of the LTIP, the CSP and the matching shares under the SIP ranging from 201p 319p 2016: 191p 319p and a weighted average remaining contractual life of 4.0 years 2016: 3.8 years.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, options were granted in respect of the SAYE, LTIP, CSP, SIP and deferred bonus schemes.
The aggregate of the estimated fair values of the options granted on those dates was 11.1m 2016: 6.9m.
The fair value of options is measured by use of the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo models.
The inputs into the Black-Scholes model are as follows: 2017 2016 Share price p 276 318 251 318 Exercise price p 0 319 0 319 Expected volatility % 23 30 25 30 Expected life years 3 4 3 5 Risk-free rate % 0.13 1.1 0.13 1.1 Expected dividends % 3.5 4.7 3.5 4.1 www.
com 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 137.
109BShare-based payments continued The inputs into the Monte Carlo model are as follows: 2017 2016 Share price p 247 319 251 319 Average correlation with TSR benchmark % 26 35 26 32 Expected volatility % 18 23 18 24 Expected life years 3 3 Risk-free rate % 0.16 1.29 0.64 1.29 Expected volatility was based upon the historical volatility over the expected life of the schemes.
The expected life is based upon historical data and has been adjusted based on managements best estimates for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
113BRetirement benefit schemes The Group has a number of pension arrangements for employees: Defined contribution schemes for the majority of its employees: and Defined benefit schemes which include a group scheme and other, smaller schemes.
The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes for qualifying employees.
The Group has a defined benefit pension scheme called the Mitie Group plc Pension Scheme Group scheme where Mitie Group plc is the principal employer.
The Group participates in a number of other defined benefit schemes Other schemes in respect of certain employees who joined the Group under the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of Employment Regulations 2006 TUPE.
Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Group pays contributions to an independently administered fund: such contributions are based upon a fixed percentage of employees pay.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions to the fund once these contributions have been paid.
Members benefits are determined by the amount of contributions paid, together with investment returns earned on the contributions arising from the performance of each individuals chosen investments and the type of pension the member chooses to take at retirement.
As a result, actuarial risk that pension will be lower than expected and investment risk that the assets invested in do not perform in line with expectations are borne by the employee.
The Groups contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
The Group operates three separate schemes: a stakeholder defined contribution plan, which is closed to new members: a self-invested personal pension plan, which is closed to new members: and a group personal pension GPP plan.
Employer contributions are payable to each on a matched basis requiring employee contributions to be paid.
Employees have the option to pay their share via a salary sacrifice arrangement.
The scheme used to satisfy auto-enrolment compliance is a master trust, The Peoples Pension.
During the year, the Group made a total contribution to the defined contribution schemes of 13.7m 2016: 13.3m and contributions to the auto-enrolment scheme of 4.3m 2016: 4.1m, which are included in the income statement charge.
The Group expects to make contributions of a similar amount in the coming year.
Defined benefit schemes Group scheme The Group scheme provides benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
The level of benefits provided depends on members length of service and their final pensionable pay.
The Group scheme closed to new members in 2006, with new employees able to join one of the defined contribution schemes.
Pensions in payment are generally increased in line with RPI inflation, subject to certain caps and floors.
Benefits are payable on death and other events such as withdrawal from active service.
The Group scheme is operated under the UK regulatory framework.
Benefits are paid to members from the trustadministered fund, where the Trustee is responsible for ensuring that the scheme is sufficiently funded to meet current and future benefit payments.
Plan assets are held in trust and are governed by pension legislation.
If investment experience is worse than expected or the actuarial assessment of the schemes liabilities increases, the Groups financial obligations to the scheme rise.
156 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138.
115BRetirement benefit schemes continued The nature of the relationship between the Group and the Trustee is also governed by regulations and practice.
The Trustee must agree a funding plan with the sponsoring company such that any funding shortfall is expected to be met by additional contributions and investment outperformance.
In order to assess the level of contributions required, triennial valuations are carried out with the schemes obligations measured using prudent assumptions which are determined by the Trustee with advice from the scheme actuary.
The most recent triennial valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2014.
The scheme Trustees other duties include managing the investment of the schemes assets, administration of plan benefits and exercising of discretionary powers.
The Group works closely with the Trustee to manage the scheme.
Other defined benefit schemes Grouped together under Other schemes are a number of schemes to which the Group makes contributions under Admitted Body status to clients generally local government or government entities defined benefit schemes in respect of certain employees who transferred to Mitie under TUPE.
The valuations of the Other schemes are updated by an actuary at each balance sheet date.
For the Admitted Body schemes, which are largely sections of the Local Government Pension Scheme, the Group will only participate for a finite period up to the end of the relevant contract.
The Group is required to pay regular contributions as decided by the relevant scheme actuaries and detailed in each schemes Contributions Certificate, which are calculated every three years as part of a triennial valuation.
In a number of cases contributions payable by the employer are capped and any excess is recovered from the entity that the employees transferred from.
In addition, in certain cases, at the end of the contract the Group will be required to pay any deficit as determined by the scheme actuary that is assessed for its notional section of the scheme.
Further information in respect of the Group scheme and Other schemes The table below sets out the details of the latest funding valuation of the Group scheme as at 31 March 2014.
The Group made a total contribution to the Group scheme of 2.0m during the year 2016: 2.5m.
The Group expects to make contributions of around 2.0m to the Group scheme in the coming year.
Employees contribution to the cost of the scheme 9.1% of pensionable salaries is generally paid through a salary sacrifice arrangement.
The Group made contributions to the Other schemes of 0.3m in the year 2016: 0.4m.
The Group expects to make contributions of around 0.3m to the Other schemes in the coming year.
Details of latest funding valuation Group scheme Date of last formal funding valuation 31 March 2014 Assets at valuation date 143.6 million Funding liabilities at valuation date 149.6 million Deficit at valuation date 6.0 million Contribution rate agreed to meet the cost of benefits accruing, including related expenses 23.0% of pensionable salary Employer contribution rate including expenses 13.9% of pensionable salary Employee contribution rate 9.1% of pensionable salary To eliminate the funding deficit the Trustee and the Group have agreed that additional contributions i. e. over and above those required to cover benefits being accrued will be paid into the scheme of 11.1m by 31 March 2024 or if less, the deficit at that time.
The Group has provided security for this liability by a UK clearing bank letter of credit building up to that value to 2024.
Under this recovery plan, if the assumptions made are borne out in practice, the deficit would be eliminated by 31 March 2024. www.
com 157 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 1138.
115BRetirement benefit schemes continued Group scheme details The following table sets out details of the membership of the Group scheme: Scheme details at last valuation date Group scheme Active members by number 349 Active members by proportion of funding liability 34% Total pensionable salary roll p. a.
16.9m Deferred members by number 1,195 Deferred members by proportion of funding liability 47% Total deferred pensions p. a. at date of leaving scheme 3.6m Pensioner members by number 515 Pensioner members by proportion of funding liability 19% Total pensions in payment p. a.
1.9m Accounting assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the accounting costs and obligations of the groups defined benefit pension schemes, as detailed below, are set after consultation with independent, professionally qualified actuaries.
The discount rate used to determine the present value of the obligations is set by reference to market yields on high quality corporate bonds.
The assumptions for price inflation are set by reference to the difference between yields on longer-term conventional government bonds and index-linked bonds.
The assumption for increases in pensionable pay takes into account expected salary inflation, the cap at CPI, and how often the cap is likely to be exceeded.
The assumptions for life expectancy have been set with reference to the actuarial tables used in the latest funding valuations, with a lower best-estimate allowance for future improvements to mortality.
Principal accounting assumptions at balance sheet dates Group scheme Other schemes 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % % % Key assumptions used for IAS 19 valuation: Discount rate 2.65 3.60 2.65 3.60 Expected rate of pensionable pay increases 2.00 1.70 3.40 3.10 Retail price inflation 3.40 3.10 3.40 3.10 Consumer price inflation 2.40 2.10 2.40 2.10 Future pension increases 3.40 3.10 3.40 3.10 Group scheme 2017 2016 Years Years Post retirement life expectancy: Current pensioners at 65 male 88.0 88.0 Current pensioners at 65 female 90.0 89.0 Future pensioners at 65 male 89.0 89.0 Future pensioners at 65 female 91.0 91.0 Life expectancy for the other schemes is that used by the relevant scheme actuary.
The sensitivity of defined benefit obligations to changes in principal actuarial assumptions is shown below.
158 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138.
115BRetirement benefit schemes continued Sensitivity of defined benefit obligations to key assumptions Impact on defined benefit obligations Change in Increase decrease in Increase decrease in assumption obligations obligations % m Increase in discount rate 0.1% 2.1 % 5.5 Increase in RPI inflation 0.1% 1.6% 4.2 Increase in CPI inflation excluding pay 0.1% 0.5% 1.3 Increase in salary growth 0.1% 0.4% 1.1 Increase in life expectancy 1 year 4.0% 10.5 Including other inflation-linked assumptions CPI inflation, pension increases and salary growth The sensitivity information shown above has been prepared using the same method as adopted when adjusting the results of the latest funding valuation to the balance sheet date.
Some of the above changes in assumptions may have an impact on the value of the schemes investment holdings.
For example, the Group scheme holds a proportion of its assets in UK corporate bonds.
A fall in the discount rate as a result of lower UK corporate bond yields would lead to an increase in the value of these assets, thus mitigating the increase in the defined benefit obligation to some extent.
The duration, or average term to payment for the benefits due, weighted by liability, is around 22 years for the Group scheme.
Amounts recognised in financial statements The table below outlines where the Groups post-employment amounts are included in the financial statements.
2017 2016 Group Other Group Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m Current service cost 3.2 0.3 3.5 3.6 0.3 3.9 Total administration expense 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.5 Amounts recognised in operating profit 4.0 0.3 4.3 4.1 0.3 4.4 Net interest cost 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.2 Amounts recognised in profit before tax 5.3 0.3 5.6 5.3 0.3 5.6 Amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income are as follows: 2017 2016 Group Other Group Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m Actuarial losses gains due to changes in financial assumptions 52.5 3.7 56.2 6.3 0.4 6.7 Actuarial gains due to liability experience 0.8 0.8 3.1 3.1 Return on scheme assets, excluding interest income 18.7 1.3 20.0 6.2 0.6 6.8 33.0 2.4 35.4 3.2 0.2 3.0 The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from the Groups obligations in respect of its defined benefit retirement benefit schemes are as follows: 2017 2016 Group Other Group Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 177.8 11.3 189.1 156.9 9.5 166.4 Present value of defined benefit obligations 248.5 14.8 263.3 191.3 10.6 201.9 Net pension liability 70.7 3.5 74.2 34.4 1.1 35.5 All figures above are shown before deferred tax.
com 159 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 138.
115BRetirement benefit schemes continued Reconciliation of group balance sheet Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations in the year in respect of both the Group and other schemes were as follows: 2017 2016 Group Other Group Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 April 191.3 10.6 201.9 197.1 10.4 207.5 Current service cost 3.2 0.3 3.5 3.6 0.3 3.9 Interest cost 6.8 0.4 7.2 6.6 0.4 7.0 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Actuarial losses gains on liabilities arising from changes in financial assumptions 52.5 3.7 56.2 6.3 0.4 6.7 Actuarial gains on liabilities arising from experience 0.8 0.8 3.1 3.1 Benefits paid 4.6 0.3 4.9 6.7 0.2 6.9 At 31 March 248.5 14.8 263.3 191.3 10.6 201.9 The defined benefit obligation of the Group scheme is analysed by participant status below: 2017 2016 m m Active 85.0 62.2 Deferred 103.1 78.4 Pensioners 60.4 50.7 At 31 March 248.5 191.3 Movements in the fair value of scheme assets were as follows: 2017 2016 Group Other Group Other scheme schemes Total scheme schemes Total m m m m m m At 1 April 156.9 9.5 166.4 162.2 9.5 171.7 Interest income 5.5 0.4 5.9 5.4 0.3 5.7 Actuarial gains and losses 18.7 1.3 20.0 6.2 0.6 6.8 Contributions from the sponsoring companies 2.0 0.3 2.3 2.5 0.4 2.9 Contributions from scheme members 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2 Expenses paid 0.8 0.8 0.4 0.4 Benefits paid 4.6 0.3 4.9 6.7 0.2 6.9 At 31 March 177.8 11.3 189.1 156.9 9.5 166.4 160 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138.
115BRetirement benefit schemes continued The history of experience adjustments is as follows: Group scheme 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 177.8 156.9 162.2 143.8 134.0 Present value of defined benefit obligations 248.5 191.3 197.1 160.8 163.7 Deficit in the scheme 70.7 34.4 34.9 17.0 29.7 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.8 3.1 1.2 0.1 0.1 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.3 % 1.6 % 0.6 % 0.1 % 0.1 % Experience adjustments on scheme assets 18.7 6.2 13.0 3.6 3.9 Percentage of scheme assets 10.5% 4.0 % 8.0% 2.5% 2.9% Other schemes 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m Fair value of scheme assets 11.3 9.5 9.5 16.2 7.9 Present value of defined benefit obligations 14.8 10.6 10.4 18.3 8.1 Deficit in the scheme 3.5 1.1 0.9 2.1 0.2 Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 0.1 0.3 0.2 Percentage of scheme liabilities 0.9% 1.8 % 2.8 % Experience adjustments on scheme assets 1.3 0.6 0.8 0.3 0.5 Percentage of scheme assets 11.5% 6.1 % 8.4% 1.9 % 6.1% Fair values of the assets held by the schemes were as follows: 2017 2016 Group Other Group Other Schemes Schemes Total Schemes Schemes Total m m m m m m Equities 66.4 7.6 74.0 56.9 6.0 62.9 Government bonds 26.8 1.6 28.4 22.3 1.4 23.7 Corporate bonds 21.7 0.8 22.5 19.2 0.7 19.9 Property 16.2 0.8 17.0 17.0 0.8 17.8 Diversified growth fund 46.6 46.6 40.2 40.2 Cash 0.1 0.5 0.6 1.3 0.6 1.9 Total fair value of assets 177.8 11.3 189.1 156.9 9.5 166.4 The investment portfolios are diversified, investing in a wide range of assets, in order to provide reasonable assurance that no single asset or type of asset could have a materially adverse impact on the total portfolio.
To reduce volatility, certain assets are held in a matching portfolio, which largely consists of government and corporate bonds, designed to mirror movements in corresponding liabilities.
Around 73% 2016: 73% of the assets are held in equities, property and pooled investment vehicles which seek a higher expected level of return over the long term.
7m 2016: 7m of the property assets represent freehold property, the rest are quoted property investments.
com 161 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 1238.
123BRetirement benefit schemes continued Risks and risk management The Group scheme, in common with the majority of UK plans, has a number of risks.
These areas of risk and the ways in which the Group has sought to manage them, are set out in the table below.
The risks are considered from both a funding perspective, which drives the cash commitments of the Group, and from an accounting perspective, i. e. the extent to which such risks affect the amounts recorded in the Groups financial statements: Risk Description Asset The funding liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to government bond yields, with volatility allowance for additional return to be generated from the investment portfolio.
The defined benefit obligation for accounting is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields.
The Group scheme holds a large proportion of its assets 73% in equities and other return-seeking assets principally diversified growth funds DGFs and property.
The returns on such assets tend to be volatile and are not correlated to government bonds.
This means that the funding level has the potential to be volatile in the short term, potentially resulting in short-term cash requirements or alternative security offers, which are acceptable to the Trustee and an increase in the net defined benefit liability recorded on the Groups balance sheet.
Equities and DGFs are considered to offer the best returns over the long term with an acceptable level of risk and hence the scheme holds a significant proportion of these types of asset.
However, the schemes assets are well-diversified by investing in a range of asset classes, including property, government bonds and corporate bonds.
The Group scheme holds 26% of its assets in DGFs which seek to maintain high levels of return whilst achieving lower volatility than direct equity funds.
The allocation to return seeking assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the schemes long-term objectives.
The investment in bonds is discussed further below.
Changes in Falling bond yields tend to increase the funding and accounting obligations.
However, the investment in bond yields corporate and government bonds offers a degree of matching, i. e. the movement in assets arising from changes in bond yields partially matches the movement in the funding or accounting obligations.
In this way, the exposure to movements in bond yields is reduced.
Inflation risk The majority of the schemes benefit obligations are linked to inflation.
Higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities although caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
The majority of the Group schemes assets are either unaffected by inflation fixed interest bonds or loosely correlated with inflation equities, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.
Life The majority of the schemes obligations are to provide a pension for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy expectancy will result in an increase in the obligations.
162 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 138.
123BRetirement benefit schemes continued Areas of risk management Although investment decisions in the scheme are the responsibility of the Trustee, the Group takes an active interest to ensure that pension plan risks are managed efficiently.
The Group and Trustee have agreed a long-term strategy for reducing investment risk where appropriate.
Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP is a portion of pension that was accrued by individuals who were contracted out of the State Second Pension prior to 6 April 1997.
At present there is an inequality of benefits between male and female members who have GMP.
The Government intends to implement legislation to equalise benefits, which could result in an increase in the value of GMP for males.
This would increase the defined benefit obligations.
At this stage, it is not possible to quantify the impact of this change, and therefore no provision has been made.
Certain benefits payable on death before retirement are insured.
127BRelated party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation and are not disclosed in this Note.
During the year, the Group derived 0.2m 2016: 0.8m of revenue from contracts with joint ventures and associated undertakings.
At 31 March 2017 trade and other receivables of nil 2016: nil were outstanding and loans to joint ventures and associates of nil 2016: nil were included in financing assets.
Mitie Group plc has a related party relationship with the Mitie Foundation, a charitable company, as R McGregor-Smith and S C Baxter were Directors of the Company and were also two of the Trustees of the Foundation during the year.
R McGregorSmith resigned as a Director and Trustee of the Mitie Foundation on 12 December 2016 and S C Baxter resigned as a Director and Trustee of the Mitie Foundation on 16 March 2017.
During the year, the Group made donations of 9,400 2016: 79,000 and gifts in kind of 282,000 2016: 267,000 to the Foundation.
At the end of the year nil 2016: nil was due to the Foundation and the Foundation had nil 2016: nil held within creditors as an amount owed to Mitie Group plc.
No material contract or arrangement has been entered into during the year, nor existed at the end of the year, in which a Director had a material interest.
The Groups key management personnel are the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors whose remuneration is disclosed in the audited section of the Directors remuneration report.
The share-based payment charge for key management personnel was 1.3m 2016: 0.7m.
Details of transactions with Mitie Group plc Pension Scheme, and other smaller pension schemes, are given in Note 38. www.
com 163 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 B40.
131BNotes to the consolidated statement of cash flows 2017 2016 Restated Continued Discontinued Continued Discontinued operations operations Total operations operations Total m m m m m m Cash conversion Operating profit 42.9 135.2 178.1 107.6 42.0 65.6 Depreciation 13.6 0.5 14.1 14.6 0.5 15.1 Amortisation 22.4 1.4 23.8 7.8 9.2 17.0 Impairment of goodwill and write-down of intangible 18.0 91.2 109.2 33.2 33.2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA 11.1 42.1 31.0 130.0 0.9 130.9 Cash generated by operations 159.9 8.8 151.1 124.0 9.3 114.6 Cash conversion 95.4% 87.6% Free cash flow Cash generated by operations 151.1 114.6 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14.5 15.7 Purchase of other intangible assets 12.4 8.9 Disposals of property, plant and equipment 1.0 2.2 Income taxes paid 15.3 15.7 Interest paid including facility extension fees 12.7 13.4 Free cash flow 97.2 63.1 Previously cash conversion has been calculated as cash generated by operations as a percentage of EBITDA, however this years loss results in meaningless percentages.
It should be noted that the Directors no longer consider that cash conversion is an appropriate measure of performance for the Group.
133BSubsidiaries The companies set out below are those which were part of the Group at 31 March 2017.
2017 2017 Country of % voting rights and % nominal Company incorporation ownership interest value owned Care & Custody Health Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Cole Motors Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Creativevents Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Direct Enquiries Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Jabez Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Aviation Security Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Belgium BVBA Belgium 100% 100% Mitie Belgium Security BVBA Belgium 100% 100% Mitie Built Environment Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Business Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Business Services UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Care and Custody Limited United Kingdom 93.1% 99.9% Mitie Catering Services Limited United Kingdom 80.3% 99.3% Mitie Cleaning & Environmental Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Cleaning Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Client Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Company Secretarial Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Compliance Ltd United Kingdom 100% 100% 164 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141.
133BSubsidiaries continued 2017 2017 Country of % voting rights and % nominal Company incorporation ownership interest value owned Mitie Deutschland GmbH 1 Germany 100% 100% Mitie Document Solutions Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Bristol Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Jersey Limited Jersey 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Northern Region Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Wales Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Engineering Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Environmental Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Espaa, S. L. Spain 100% 100% Mitie Events & Leisure Services Limited United Kingdom 74.8% 99.6% Mitie Facilities Management Limited Ireland 94.2% 99.4% Mitie Facilities Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie France SAS France 100% 100% Mitie Group Pension Scheme Trustee Company Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Infrastructure Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Integrated Facilities Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie International Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Investments Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Justice Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Landscapes Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Local Services Limited United Kingdom 98.2% 100% Mitie Managed Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Nederland B. V. Netherlands 100% 100% Mitie Norge Aksjeselskap Norway 100% 100% Mitie Pest Control London Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Pest Control Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie PFI Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100% 100% Mitie Property Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Property Services UK Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Reinsurance Company Limited Guernsey 100% 100% Mitie Resources Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Schweiz GmbH Switzerland 100% 100% Mitie Scotgate Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Security London Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Security Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Security Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Services Retail Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Shared Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Suomi Oy Finland 100% 100% Mitie Sverige AB Sweden 100% 100% Mitie T S 2 Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Technical Facilities Management Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Technical Facilities Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Tilley Roofing Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% www.
com 165 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 141.
133BSubsidiaries continued 2017 2017 Country of % voting rights and % nominal Company incorporation ownership interest value owned Mitie Transport Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Treasury Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Trustee Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Mitie Waste & Environmental Services Limited United Kingdom 71% 99.6% Mitie Work Wise Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Parkersell Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Procius Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Robert Prettie & Co Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Service Management International Asia Pacific PTE.
Ltd. Singapore 100% 100% Source Eight Limited United Kingdom 51% 51% Source8 Africa Limited United Kingdom 51% 51% Source8 Delivery Nigeria Limited Nigeria 51% 51% Source8 Services FZLLC United Arab Emirates 51% 51% UK CRBS Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Asset Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Asset Management Projects Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Broking Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Healthcare Energy Services Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Holdings Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Utilyx Risk Management Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% Wealthy Thoughts Limited United Kingdom 100% 100% These entities were dormant during the year ended 31 March 2017 and will take the exemption from preparing and filing financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 by virtue of section 448A of the Companies Act 2006.
166 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2B41.
133BSubsidiaries continued The registered office of all subsidiaries is 1 Harlequin Office Park, Fieldfare, Emersons Green, Bristol, South Gloucestershire, BS16 7FN, with the exception of the following: Company Registered Office address Mitie Belgium BVBA c o Regus Brussels South Station, Place Broothaers 8 bt 5 1050 Brussels, Belgium Mitie Belgium Security BVBA c o Regus Brussels South Station, Place Broothaers 8 bt 5 1050 Brussels, Belgium Mitie Deutschland GmbH Mestetter Strae 8, 70567, Stuttgart, Germany Mitie Engineering Services Guernsey c o MPR Private Clients Limited, PO Box 119, Martello Court, Admiral Park, St Limited Peter Port, GY1 3HB, Guernsey Mitie Engineering Services Jersey Limited 13 Castle Street, St Helier, JE4 5UT, Jersey Mitie Espaa, S. L. Osborne Clarke, Avenida Diagonal, 477, Planta 20, 08036, Barcelona, Spain Mitie Facilities Management Limited 108 Q House, Furze Road, Sandyford, Dublin 18, Ireland Mitie France SAS 259 rue St Honore, 75001, Paris, France Mitie Limited Clara House, Office B5, Dunmurry Office Park, 37A Upper Dunmurry Lane, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT17 0AA, United Kingdom Mitie Nederland B. V. Hoofdweg 52A, 3067 GH Rotterdam, P. O.
Box 8540, 3009 AM Rotterdam, 3009 AM Rotterdam, Netherlands Mitie Norge Aksjeselskap Kongensgate 9, 0153, Oslo, Norway, Norway Mitie Polska Sp.
z o. o. Solec 22, 00-410, Warsaw, Poland Mitie Reinsurance Company Limited Maison Trinity, Trinity Square, St. Peter Port, GY1 4AT, Guernsey Mitie Schweiz GmbH Brandschenkestrasse 90, CH-8027, Zurich, Switzerland Mitie Suomi Oy c o Ov Visma Services Infocon Ab, Pormestarinrine 8, 00160 Helsinki, Finland Mitie Sverige AB Kungsgatan 55, 111 22 Stockholm, Sweden, Sweden Service Management International Asia 1 Raffles Place, #18-01, One Raffles Place, Singapore, 048616, Singapore Pacific PTE.
Ltd. Source8 Delivery Nigeria Limited 235 Ikorodu Road, Ilupeju, Lagos, Nigeria Source8 Services FZLLC 17 The Iridium Building, Um Suqueim Road, Al Barsha, Dubai, PO BOX 391186, United Arab Emirates No subsidiaries have non-controlling interests that are material to the Group.
The Group has a 30% interest in its associate, Pyramid Plus South LLP, a limited liability partnership registered in the United Kingdom with its registered office at The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London, W2 1BD.
Events after the reporting period As at 31 March 2017, the Group had 527m of committed funding arrangements.
Subsequent to the reporting period, on 7 June 2017, the Groups lenders agreed an amendment to the covenant calculation definitions.
