TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 88 Notice of Annual General Meeting THIS NOTICE IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you should seek your own advice from a stockbroker, solicitor, accountant or other independent professional adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all of your shares, please pass this document, together with the accompanying documents to the purchaser, or transferee, or to the person who arranged the sale or transfer so they can pass these documents to the person who now holds the shares.
Notice is hereby given that the Annual General Meeting of pursuant to any such offers or agreements as if this authority had TR Property Investment Trust plc the Company will be held at not expired.
2.00 pm on 25 July 2017 at Grosvenor House, A JW Marriott 12 THAT Hotel, 86-90 Park Lane, London W1K 7TN for the purpose of a subject to the passing of Resolution 11 set out above the transacting the following business: directors be empowered pursuant to Section 570 and To consider and, if thought t, pass the following Resolutions, Section 573 of the Act to allot equity securities as dened of which Resolutions 1 to 11 will be proposed as Ordinary in Section 560 of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority Resolutions and Resolutions 12 and 13 shall be proposed as conferred by Resolution 11 above and or to sell shares Special Resolutions.
held by the Company as treasury shares for cash as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to any such To receive the Report of the Directors and the Audited 1 allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to: Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017. i the allotment of equity securities and sale of treasury 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year shares for cash in connection with an offer of, or ended 31 March 2017. invitation to apply for, equity securities: 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
aa to shareholders in proportion as nearly as may 4 To declare a final dividend of 6.4 pence per Ordinary share.
be practicable to their existing holdings: and 5 To re-elect Simon Marrison as a director.
bb to holders of other equity securities, as required by the rights of those securities, or as the Board 6 To re-elect David Watson as a director.
otherwise considers necessary, To re-elect Hugh Seaborn as a director.
7 and so that the Board may impose any limits or To re-elect Suzie Procter as a director.
8 restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers necessary or appropriate to deal with treasury 9 To reappoint KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company to hold shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, ofce until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting regulatory or practical problems in, or under the laws of, of the Company.
any territory or any other matter: and 10 To authorise the directors to determine the remuneration of ii in the case of the authority granted under Resolution 11 the auditors.
and or in the case of any sale of treasury shares for THAT the directors be generally and unconditionally authorised 11 cash, to the allotment otherwise than under pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the paragraph i above of equity securities or sale of Companies Act 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the treasury shares up to a nominal amount of 3,966,887 Company to allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to being approximately 5% of the total issued share subscribe for, or to convert any security into, shares in the capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date Company up to a nominal value of 26,181,455 being prior to publication of the notice of meeting, approximately 33% of the total issued share capital of the b the power given by this resolution shall expire upon the Company as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of expiry of the authority conferred by Resolution 11 above, the notice of the meeting provided that this authority shall expire save that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or at the date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company agreements before the expiry of such power which would or, if earlier, at the close of business on 25 October 2018, save or might require equity securities to be allotted after such that the Company shall be entitled to make offers or agreements expiry and the directors shall be entitled to allot equity before the expiry of this authority which would or might require securities pursuant to any such offer or agreement as if shares to be allotted or rights to be granted after such expiry and the power conferred hereby had not expired.
the directors shall be entitled to allot shares and grant rights TR Property Investment Trust 88 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF AGM TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 89 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued c the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may 13 THAT the Company be and is hereby generally and be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25 pence, being unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 the nominal value per Ordinary share: of the Act to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 693 4 of the Act of Ordinary shares of 25 pence d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the each in the capital of the Company on such terms and in such conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the manner as the directors may from time to time determine Company in 2018, save that the Company shall be provided that: entitled to enter into a contract to purchase Ordinary shares which will, or may, be completed or executed a the maximum number of Ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 14.99% of the wholly or partly after the power expires and the Company may purchase Ordinary shares pursuant to such contract Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting equivalent to 47,570,911 as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
Ordinary shares of 25 pence each at7 June 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication : b the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share shall not be more than the higher of: Registered Ofce: Registered in England No: 84492 i 105% of the average of the middle market 1112 Hanover Street quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five W1S 1YQ business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy the shares By Order of the Board concerned: and For and on behalf of ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade Capita Company Secretarial Services and the highest current independent bid for an Secretary Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue 8 June 2017 where the purchase is carried out at the relevant time.
TR Property Investment Trust 89 TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 18:29 Page 90 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued how many votes a person may cast a person must have Directions Grosvenor House his her name entered on the Register of Members of the Company by 6.00 pm on 23 July 2017 or 6.00 pm on the date 2 days before any adjourned meeting.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
3 Shareholders should note that it is possible that, pursuant to requests made by shareholders of the Company under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may be required to publish on a website a statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the auditors report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with Section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the shareholders requesting Dress code smart casual any such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with Sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006.
Where Please note that the hotels main entrance is on Park Street the Company is required to place a statement on a website between upper Grosvenor Street and Mount Street which under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, it must runs parallel to Park Lane in a one way direction towards forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than Oxford Street.
the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM Notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required 1 Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any under Section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf a website.
A shareholder may appoint more than one 4 Any corporation which is a member of the Company can proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting AGM provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
To appoint more than one proxy, the proxy form 5 The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to persons whose should be photocopied and the name of the proxy to be shares are held on their behalf by another person and who appointed indicated on each proxy form together with the have been nominated to receive communication from the number of shares that such proxy is appointed in respect of.
Company in accordance with Section 146 of the Companies To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a Act 2006 nominated persons.
Nominated persons may have a right under an agreement with the registered proxy must be returned by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, shareholder who holds shares on their behalf to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy.
Alternatively, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, or alternatively, by going to www.
com and if nominated persons do not have such a right, or do not wish to exercise it, they may have a right under such an agreement following the instructions provided.
All proxies must be appointed by no later than 48 hours before the time of the to give instructions to the person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
The return of a completed proxy form or other such instrument will not prevent a shareholder attending the AGM 6 CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may In order to be able to attend and vote at the AGM or any do so for the AGM to be held on 25 July 2017 and any 2 adjourned meeting, and also for the purpose of calculating adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in TR Property Investment Trust 90 NOTICE OF AGM NOTICE OF AGM TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 91 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued the CREST Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST 8 A copy of this notice, and other information required by sponsored members, and those CREST members who have section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at appointed a voting service provider should refer to their www.
CREST sponsors or voting service provider s, who will be able 9 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338 of the to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
Companies Act 2006 may require the Company to give, to In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made by means members of the Company entitled to receive notice of the of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a AGM, notice of a resolution which those members intend to CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in move and which may properly be moved at the AGM.
accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds specications A resolution may properly be moved at the AGM unless: and must contain the information required for such instructions, i it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by reason of any as described in the CREST Manual.
The message must be inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys transmitted so as to be received by the Companys agent, constitution or otherwise : ii it is defamatory of any person: Computershare Investor Services PLC CREST Participant ID: or iii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to 3RA50, no later than 48 hours before the time appointed for this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken the resolution of which notice is to be given, must be to be the time as determined by the time stamp applied to the authenticated by the person s making it and must be message by the CREST Application Host from which the received by the Company not later than six weeks before the Companys agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to date of the AGM.
CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
10 Members satisfying the thresholds in section 338A of the CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsor Companies Act 2006 may request the Company to include in or voting service provider should note that Euroclear UK & the business to be dealt with at the AGM any matter other Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in than a proposed resolution which may properly be included CREST for any particular messages.
in the business at the AGM.
A matter may properly be included in the business at the AGM unless: i it is defamatory of any Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in person: or ii it is frivolous or vexatious.
A request made relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the pursuant to this right may be in hard copy or electronic form, responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if must identify the matter to be included in the business, must the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for member or has appointed a voting service provider, to procure the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider takes such and must be received by the Company not later than six action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is weeks before the date of the AGM.
transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where 11 Biographical details of the directors are shown on page 33 of applicable, their CREST sponsor or voting service provider are the Annual Report & Accounts.
referred in particular to those sections of the CREST Manual 12 As at7 June 2017 being the latest practicable day prior to concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and publication of the notice of the meeting, the issued share timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy capital of the Company is 317,350,980 Ordinary shares of 25p Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a each.
Therefore, the total number of voting rights in the of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
7 Any member attending the meeting has the right to ask 13 The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such Management Engagement Committee, the Nomination question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting Committee and the Letters of Appointment for directors will but no such answer need be given if: a to do so would interfere be available for inspection for at least 15 minutes prior to and unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the during the Companys AGM.
disclosure of condential information: b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question: 14 You may not use any electronic address provided either in this or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the Notice or any related documents to communicate for any good order of the meeting that the question be answered.
purposes other than those expressly stated.
TR Property Investment Trust 91 TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 92 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Accounts, Resolution 12: Disapplication of statutory Directors Remuneration Report, Directors pre-emption rights Remuneration Policy and Dividend This resolution would give the directors the authority to allot shares or sell any shares which the Company elects These are the resolutions which deal with the presentation to hold in treasury for cash without first offering them to of the audited accounts, the approval of the Directors existing shareholders in proportion to their existing Remuneration Report, the Directors Remuneration Policy shareholdings.
and the declaration of the final dividend.
The vote to approve the remuneration report is advisory only and will This authority would be limited to allotments or sales in not require the Company to alter any arrangements connection with pre-emptive offers and offers to holders detailed in the report should the resolution not be passed.
of other equity securities if required by the rights of those The vote to approve the remuneration policy is binding.
shares or as the board otherwise considers necessary, or otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of Resolutions 5, 6, 7 and 8: Re-election of 3,966,887.
This aggregate nominal amount represents directors 5% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at These resolutions deal with the re-election of Simon 7 June 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication Marrison, David Watson, Hugh Seaborn and Suzie Procter.
In respect of this aggregate nominal In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all amount, the directors confirm their intention to follow the directors will retire on an annual basis and have confirmed provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of that they will offer themselves for re-election.
Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling 3-year period where the Principles provide that A performance evaluation has been completed and your usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without Board has determined that each of the directors continues prior consultation with shareholders.
to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
The authority will expire at the earlier of close of business on 25 October 2018 and the conclusion of the annual Resolutions 9 and 10: Auditors general meeting of the Company to be held in 2018.
These deal with the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG LLP, and the authorisation for the directors to determine Resolution 13: Authority to make Market their remuneration.
Purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares Resolution 11: Allotment of share capital At the AGM held on 26 July 2016, a special resolution was Our Board considers it appropriate that an authority be proposed and passed, giving the directors authority, until granted to allot shares in the capital of the Company up the conclusion of the AGM in 2017, to make market to a maximum nominal amount of 26,181,455 purchases of the Companys own issued shares up to representing approximately 33% of the Companys a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
issued share capital as at7 June 2017, being the latest practical date prior to publication of the Notice of the Your Board is proposing that they should be given meeting.
As at the date of this notice the Company does renewed authority to purchase Ordinary shares in the not hold any shares in treasury.
Your Board believes that to make such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices is a suitable The directors have no present intention of exercising this method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company authority and would only expect to use the authority if would, within guidelines set from time to time by the shares could be issued at, or at a premium to, the NAV Board, make either a single purchase or a series of per share.
purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with This authority will expire at the earlier of close of business the aim of maximising the benets to shareholders.
on 25 October 2018 and the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2018.
TR Property Investment Trust 92 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 93 Explanation of Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing Recommendation Net Asset Value per share, this will enhance the Net Asset Your Board believes that the resolutions contained in this Value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests intended that purchases would only be made at prices of the Company and shareholders as a whole and below Net Asset Value.
Your Board considers that it will be recommends that you vote in favour of them as your most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be Directors intend to do in respect of their beneficial able to make such purchases as and when it considers the shareholdings.
timing to be favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 enable companies in the United Kingdom to hold in treasury any of their own shares they have purchased with a view to possible resale at a future date, rather than cancelling them.
If the Company does re-purchase any of its shares, the directors do not currently intend to hold any of the shares re-purchased in treasury.
The shares so re-purchased will continue to be cancelled.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority limit the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for any such share.
It shall not be more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy shares concerned: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid for an Ordinary share in the Company on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary share being the nominal value.
The Listing Rules also limit a listed company to purchases of shares representing up to 15% of its issued share capital in the market pursuant to a general authority such as this.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its authority to make such purchases to 14.99% of the Companys Ordinary shares in issue at the date of the AGM: this is equivalent to 47,570,911 Ordinary shares of 25p each nominal value 11,892,727 at7 June 2017, the latest practicable date prior to publication.
The authority will last until the AGM of the Company to be held in 2018.
