SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 95 General Shareholder Information Release of Results Benchmark The half year results are announced in late November.
The Details of the benchmark is given in the Strategic Report full year results are announced in early June.
on page 24 of this Report and Accounts.
The benchmark index is published daily and can be found on Bloomberg: Annual General Meeting FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Capped Net Total The AGM is held in London in July.
Return Index in Sterling Bloomberg: TR0RAG Index Dividend Payment Dates Internet Dividends are usually paid on the Ordinary shares as follows: Details of the market price and Net Asset Value of the Interim: January Ordinary shares can be found on the Companys website Final: August at www.
Dividend Payments Shareholders who hold their shares in certicated form can check their holdings with the Registrar, Computershare Dividends can be paid to shareholders by means of BACS Investor Services PLC, via www.
Bankers Automated Clearing Services : mandate forms Please note that to gain access to your details on the for this purpose are available from the Registrar.
Computershare site you will need the holder reference Alternatively, shareholders can write to the Registrar the number stated on the top left hand corner of your address is given on page 94 of this report to give their share certicate.
instructions: these must include the bank account number, the bank account title and the sort code of the bank to Disability Act which payments are to be made.
Copies of this Report and Accounts and other documents Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP issued by the Company are available from the Company Secretary.
If needed, copies can be made available in a TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders variety of formats, including Braille, audio tape or larger the opportunity to purchase further shares in the company type as appropriate.
DRIP forms may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC through their You can contact the Registrar, Computershare Investor secure website www.
co. uk, or by phoning Services PLC, which has installed textphones to allow 0370 707 1694.
Charges do apply: dealing commission speech and hearing impaired people who have their own of 0.5% subject to a minimum of 1.00.
Government textphone to contact them directly, without the need for stamp duty of 0.5% also applies.
an intermediate operator, by dialling 0870 702 0005.
Specially trained operators are available during normal Share Price Listings business hours to answer queries via this service.
The market prices of the Companys shares are published Alternatively, if you prefer to go through a typetalk daily in The Financial Times.
Some of the information is operator provided by the Royal National Institute for Deaf published in other leading newspapers.
The Financial People you should dial 18001 followed by the number Times also shows gures for the estimated Net Asset you wish to dial.
Values and the discounts applicable.
Share Price Information ISIN GB0009064097 SEDOL 0906409 Bloomberg TRY.
L Datastream TRY TR Property Investment Trust 95 TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 96 General Shareholder Information continued Nominee Share Code Where notication has been provided in advance, the Company will arrange for copies of shareholder communications to be provided to the operators of nominee accounts.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited to do so by the Chairman.
CGT Base Cost Taxation of capital gains for shareholders who formerly held Sigma shares Upon a disposal of all or part of a shareholders holding of Ordinary shares, the impact on the shareholders capital gains tax base cost of the conversion to Sigma shares in 2007 and the redesignation to Ordinary shares in 2012 should be considered.
In respect of the conversion to Sigma in 2007, agreement was reached with HM Revenue & Customs HMRC to base the apportionment of the capital gains tax base cost on the proportion of Ordinary shares that were converted by a shareholder into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007.
Therefore, if an Ordinary shareholder converted 20% of their existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares on 25 July 2007, the capital gains tax base cost of the new Sigma shares acquired would be equal to 20% of the original capital gains tax base cost of the Ordinary shares that they held pre-conversion.
The base cost of their remaining holding of Ordinary shares would then be 80% of the original capital gains tax base cost of their Ordinary shares held pre-conversion.
As part of the re-designation of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in December 2012, a further agreement was reached with HMRC that a shareholders capital gains tax base cost in their new Ordinary shares should be equivalent to their capital gains base cost in the pre-existing Sigma shares i. e. their capital gains base cost under the existing agreement if applicable.
If in doubt as to the consequences of this agreement with HMRC, shareholders should consult with their own professional advisors.
TR Property Investment Trust 96 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 97 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc Alliance Trust Savings Market Purchases Alliance Trust provide and administer a range of self-select The shares of TR Property Investment Trust plc are listed investment plans, including tax-advantaged ISAs and SIPPs and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
Investors may Self-Invested Pension Plans and also Investment Plans purchase shares through their stockbroker, bank or other and First Steps, an Investment Plan for Children.
information Alliance Trust can be contacted on 01382 573 737, or visit www.
Holding shares in Certicated Form Investors may hold their investment in certicated form.
Investors in TR Property through the ATS Investment Plan Our registrars, Computershare operate a dealing service and ISA receive all shareholder communications.
A voting which enables investors to buy and sell shares quickly and instruction form is provided to facilitate voting at general easily online without a broker or the need to open meetings of the Company.
Alternatively the Investor Centre allows investors to manage portfolios quickly and securely, F&C Asset Management Limited F&C update details and view balances without annual charges.
F&C offer a number of Private Investor Plans, Investment Further details are available by contacting Computershare Trust and Junior ISAs and Childrens Investment Plans.
Investments can be made as lump sums or through regular savings.
For more information see inside the back TR Property Investment Trust plc now offers shareholders cover.
F&C can be contacted on 0800 136 420, or visit the opportunity to purchase further shares in the company www.
through the Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP through the registrar, Computershare.
Shareholders can Please remember that the value of your investments and obtain further information on the DRIP through their any income from them may go down as well as up.
co. uk, or by phoning performance is not a guide to future performance.
Please note that to may not get back the amount that you invest.
If you are in gain access to your details or register for the DRIP on the any doubt as to the suitability of a plan or any investment Computershare site you will need the holder reference available within a plan, please take professional advice.
number stated on the top left hand corner of your share certicate.
Saving Schemes and ISAs transferred from BNP Paribas Saving Schemes, ISAs and other plans In 2012 BNP Paribas closed down the part of their business A number of banks and wealth management organisations that operated Savings Schemes and ISAs.
Investors were provide Savings Schemes and ISAs through which UK given the choice of transferring their schemes to Alliance clients can invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc.
Trust Savings ATS or to a provider of their own choice, or to close their accounts and sell the holdings.
ISA and savings scheme providers do charge dealing and other fees for operating the accounts, and investors should If investors did not respond to the letters from BNP read the Terms and Conditions provided by these Paribas, their accounts were transferred to ATS.
companies and ensure that the charges best suit their planned investment prole.
Most schemes carry annual Any questions regarding accounts transferred to ATS charges but these vary between provider and product.
should be directed to ATS on 01382 573 737.
Where dealing charges apply, in some cases these are applied as a percentage of funds invested and others as a at charge.
The optimum way to hold the shares will be different for each investor depending upon the frequency and size of investments to be made.
Details are given below of two providers offering shares in TR Property Investment Trust, but there are many other options.
TR Property Investment Trust 97 TR Property pp88-98 08 06 2017 15:51 Page 98 Investing in TR Property Investment Trust plc continued Share Fraud and boiler room scams Shareholders in a number of Investment Trusts have been approached as part of a share fraud where they are informed of an opportunity to sell their shares as the company is subject to a takeover bid.
This is not true and is an attempt to defraud shareholders.
The share fraud also seeks payment of a commission by shareholders to the parties carrying out the fraud.
Shareholders should remain alert to this type of scam and treat with suspicion any contact by telephone offering an attractive investment opportunity, such as a premium price for your shares, or an attempt to convince you that payment is required in order to release a settlement for your shares.
These frauds may also offer to sell your shares in companies which have little or no value or may offer you bonus shares.
These so called boiler room scams can also involve an attempt to obtain your personal and or banking information with which to commit identity fraud.
The caller may be friendly and reassuring or they may take a more urgent tone, encouraging you to act quickly otherwise you could lose money or miss out on a deal.
If you have been contacted by an unauthorised rm regarding your shares the FCA would like to hear from you.
You can report an unauthorised rm using the FCA helpline on 0800 111 6768 or by visiting their website, which also has other useful information, at www.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation.
If the calls persist, hang up.
If you deal with an unauthorised rm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Please be advised that the Board or the Manager would never make unsolicited telephone calls of such a nature to shareholders.
TR Property Investment Trust 98 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in TR Property Investment Trust plc is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Investments.
F&C lnvestment Trust ISA Charges You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual Annual management charges and other charges apply according to the type tax-efficient investment of up to 20,000 for the of plan.
2017 18 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or Annual account charge regular savings from 50 a month per Trust.
You ISA: 60 VAT can also transfer any existing ISAs to us whilst PIP: 40 VAT maintaining the tax benets JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit F&C Junior ISA JISA in addition to any annual subscription limits You can invest up to 4,128 for the tax year Dealing charges 2017 18 from 500 lump sum or 30 a month per ISA: 0.2% Trust, or a combination of both.
Please note, if your PIP CIP JISA: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust.
child already has a Child Trust Fund CTF, then you cannot open a separate JISA, however you can Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on the transfer the existing CTF held either with F&C or reinvestment of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for another provider to an F&C JISA the PIP, CIP and JISA.
There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of 25 F&C Child Trust Fund CTF applies if more than 2 switches are carried out in one year.
If your child has a CTF you can invest up to 4,128 Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of shares for the 2017 18 tax year, from 100 lump sum or where applicable.
25 a month per Trust, or a combination of both.
You can also transfer a CTF from another provider to an There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to another F&C CTF.
Please note, the CTF has been replaced by provider or transfer the shares from your plan.
the JISA and is only available to investors who For full details of our savings plans and charges, please read the Key already hold a CTF.
Features and Terms and Conditions of the plan available on our website fandc.
F&C Private Investor Plan PIP How to Invest This is a exible way to invest in our range of To open a new F&C savings plan, apply online at fandc.
There are no maximum contributions, and investments can be made from Note, this is not available if you are transferring an existing plan with another 500 lump sum or 50 a month per Trust.
You can provider to F&C, or if you are applying for a new plan in more than one also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time name.
New Customers Call: 0800 136 420 8.30am 5.30pm, weekdays F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP Email: info@fandc.
com This is a exible way to save for a child in our range Existing Plan Holders of Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum Call: 0345 600 3030 9.00am 5.00pm, weekdays contributions, and the plan can easily be set up Email: investor.
com under bare trust where the child is noted as the By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre beneficial owner or kept in your name if you wish PO Box 11114 to retain control over the investment.
Investments Chelmsford can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a CM99 2DG month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum top-ups at any time from 100 per Trust.
You can also invest in the trust through online dealing platforms for private investors that offer share dealing and ISAs.
Companies include: Alliance The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name and they Trust Savings, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax, Hargreaves have access to the money at age 18.
Calls may be recorded or monitored for training and quality purposes.
Lansdown, HSBC, Interactive Investor, LLoyds Bank, Selftrade, TD Direct Investing, The Share Centre The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back your original investment.
Tax benets depend on your individual circumstances and tax allowances and rules may change.
Please read our Key Features Document before you invest and this can be found on our website fandc.
F&C cannot give advice on the suitability of investing in our investment trust or savings plans.
If you have any doubt as to the suitability of an investment, please contact a professional financial adviser.
F&C Management Limited F&C Investments and the F&C Investments logo are trademarks of F&C Management Limited.
Issued and approved by F&C Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group of which the ultimate parent company is the Bank of Montreal.
Registered Ofce: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales No 517895.
L56 02 17 CM11982 Y T I TR Property Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 L I B A T N U O C I N C N A O V TR Property Investment Trust plc is managed by CLIENTS FIRST This document is printed on Amadeus 50 White Silk: a paper containing 50% recycled bre and 50% virgin bre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC certied forests.
The pulp used in this product is bleached using an Elemental Chlorine Free ECF process.
