Annual Report 2017 182 Great Portland Estates Notice of meeting Notice is hereby given that the 60th Annual General Meeting c all pr evious unutilised authorities under section 551 of the of Great Portland Estates plc will be held at Chandos House, Companies Act 2006 shall cease to have effect save to the 2 Queen Anne Street, London W1, on Thursday, 6 July 2017 extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to section at11.30am, for the purposes set out below, with the Board 551 7 of the Companies Act 2006 by reason of any offer or available from 11am to meet shareholders and answer questions.
agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted or rights to be As ordinary business, to consider and, if thought t, pass the granted on or after that date.
following Resolutions 1 to 14 inclusive as ordinary resolutions.
That the maximum aggregate amount of fees payable to the Ordinary resolutions Non-Executive Directors in accordance with Article 90 of the Companys Articles of Association be increased to 750,000.
To receive and adopt the audited financial statements together with the directors and auditors reports for the year Special resolutions ended 31 March 2017.
To authorise the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2017. a in accor dance with Article 10 of the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the directors be given power 3.
To approve the Directors remuneration report as set out on toallot equity securities for cash: pages 104 to 130, other than the part containing the Directors remuneration policy that appears on pages 120 to 130, for the b the power under paragraph a above other than in year ended 31 March 2017. connection with a rights issue, as dened in Article 10 of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment of equity 4.
To approve the Directors remuneration policy as set out on securities having a nominal amount not exceeding in pages 120 to 130 within the Directors remuneration report aggregate 2,149,538: forthe year ended 31 March 2017. c this authority shall expir e at the conclusion of the next 5.
To re-elect Toby Courtauld as a director of the Company.
Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing 6.
To re-elect Nick Sanderson as a director of the Company.
of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 October 2018.
To re-elect Martin Scicluna as a director of the Company.
To re-elect Charles Philipps as a director of the Company.
a in addition to any authority granted under r esolution 18, 9.
To re-elect Jonathan Short as a director of the Company.
the directors be given power: 10.
To elect Wendy Becker as a director of the Company.
i subject to the passing of r esolution 16, to allot equity securities as dened in section 560 of the Companies 11.
To elect Nick Hampton as a director of the Company.
Act 2006 the Act for cash pursuant to the authority 12.
To elect Richard Mully as a director of the Company.
conferred on them by that resolution under section 551 of the Act: and 13.
To reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor.
ii to allot equity securities as dened in section 560 3 14.
To authorise the Audit Committee to agree the remuneration ofthe Act sale of treasury shares for cash, in either of the auditors.
case as if section 561 of the Act did not apply to the As special business, to consider and, if thought t, to pass the allotment or sale, but this power shall be: following resolutions 15 to 17 inclusive as ordinary resolutions, and A limited to the allotment of equity securities up to resolutions 18 to 21 inclusive as special resolutions.
The items of amaximum nominal amount of 2,149,538: and special business are explained in more detail in the Report of the directors on pages 133 to 135.
B used only for the purposes of nancing or renancing, if the authority is to be used within six 15.
To approve the amendments to the rules of The Great months after the original transaction a transaction Portland Estates 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP which the Board of the Company determines to produced in draft to this meeting and initialled by the be an acquisition or other capital investment of a Chairman for the purposes of identication and to authorise kind contemplated by the Statement of Principles the directors to adopt the changes to the LTIP and to do all on Disapplying Pre-Emption Rights most recently things necessary to implement and give effect to the changes.
published by the Pre-Emption Group prior to the 16.
That: date of this notice, and including development and or refurbishment expenditure: a the dir ectors be authorised to allot shares in the Company or grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, b this power shall expir e at the conclusion of the next Annual shares in the Company: General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on i in accor dance with Article 9 of the Companys Articles 1 October 2018: and of Association the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 14,330,256 such amount to be reduced c the Company may, before this power expires, make an by the nominal amount of any equity securities as offer or enter into an agreement, which would or might dened in Article 10 of the Articles allotted under require equity securities to be allotted after it expires and paragraph ii below in excess of 14,330,256 : and the directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if this power had not expired.
ii comprising equity securities as dened in Article 10 of the Articles, up to a maximum nominal amount of 20.
That, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the 28,660,512 such amount to be reduced by any shares Company be and it is hereby generally and unconditionally allotted or rights granted under paragraph i above authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue section 693 of the Companies Act 2006 of its shares on such asdened in Article 10 of the Articles : terms and in such manner as the directors may determine, provided that: b this authority shall expir e at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 1 October 2018: and Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 183 such purchase may be completed or executed wholly or Special resolutions continued partly after the expiration of this authority and may make a a the maximum number of shar es which may be purchased purchase of shares in pursuance of any such contract: and is 48,976,804: d all existing authorities for the Company to make market b the maximum price at which shar es may be purchased purchases of its shares are revoked, except in relation shall not be more than the higher of an amount equal to to the purchase of shares under a contract or contracts 5% above the average of the middle market quotations concluded before the date of this resolution and which has for the shares as taken from the London Stock Exchange or have not yet been executed.
Daily Ofcial List for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and an amount equal to the higher of the 21.
That, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share a general meeting other than an Annual General Meeting may and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary be called on not less than 14 clear days notice.
share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried Registered ofce: 3 out, and the minimum price shall be 13 19 pence, being 33 Cavendish Square the nominal value of the shares, in each case exclusive London W1G 0PW of expenses: By order of the Board c the authority conferr ed by this resolution shall expire at Registered Number: 596137 the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the passing of this resolution or at the Desna Martin close of business on 1 October 2018, whichever is the Company Secretary earlier, save that the Company may before such expiry 24 May 2017 enter into a contract or contracts for purchase under which Notes to notice of meeting 1.
Members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at the meeting.
A shareholder may appoint more than one proxy in relation to the Annual General Meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
In order to be valid an appointment of proxy must be returned by one of the following methods: in hard copy form by post, by courier or by hand to the Companys Registrar at the address shown on the form of proxy: or online by following the instructions for the electronic appointment of a proxy at www.
com: or in the case of CREST members, by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service in accordance with the procedures set out below, and in each case must be received by the Companys Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any UK non-working days.
The return of a completed proxy form, online proxy form, other such instrument or any CREST Proxy Instruction as described in paragraph 8 below will not prevent a shareholder attending the Annual General Meeting and voting in person if he she wishes to do so.
A shareholder must inform the Companys Registrar in writing of any termination of the authority of a proxy.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in paragraph 1 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in this paragraph can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
Nominated persons are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to their investments in the Company.
As at 23 May 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists of 326,729,852 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
No shares were held in treasury.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 23 May 2017 are 326,729,852.
Copies of all directors contracts, the proposed amendments to the rules of The Great Portland Estates 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Companys Articles of Association are available for inspection at 33 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0PW during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
8. a CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so by utilising the procedures described in the CREST Manual on the Euroclear website www.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
b In order for a proxy appointment made by means of CREST to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited specications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
Themessageregardless of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID: RA10 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the Notice of Meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
c The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001. d CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, tothose sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company species that only those shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at close of business on 4 July 2017 or in the event of any adjournment, at close of business on the date which is two days before the date of the adjourned meeting excluding any UK non-working days shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time and changes to the Register after that time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person toattend or vote at the meeting.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
Under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006, members meeting the threshold requirements set out in that section have the right to require the Company to publish on a website astatement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of the Companys accounts including the Auditors Report and the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the Annual General Meeting: or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the Company ceasing to hold ofce since the previous meeting at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance with section 437 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company may not require the members requesting such website publication to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 of the Companies Act 2006, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditors not later than the time when it makes the statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the Annual General Meeting includes any statement that the Company has been required under section 527 of the Companies Act 2006 to publish on its website.
A member attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting but no such answer need be given if a to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of condential information, b the answer has already been given on a website in the form of an answer to a question, or c it is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the meeting that the question beanswered.
A copy of this notice, and other information required by section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, can be found at www.
You may not use any electronic address provided either in this Notice of Meeting or any related documents including the form of proxy to communicate with the Company for any other purposes other than those expressly stated.
Voting on all resolutions will be conducted by way of a poll rather than on a show of hands.
This will result in a more accurate reection of the views of shareholders by ensuring that every vote is recognised, including all votes of shareholders who are unable to attend the meeting but who appoint a proxy for the meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for every share held.
