Shareholder Information Glossary of Terms Total Assets Ongoing Charges Ratio Total assets represents total net assets less current liabilities, The total expenses excluding borrowing costs incurred by the before deduction of all borrowings.
Company as a percentage of the average net asset value with debt at fair value.
Net Asset Value Gearing Net Asset Value NAV is the value of total assets less liabilities including borrowings.
The NAV per share is calculated by At its simplest, gearing is borrowing.
Just like any other public dividing this amount by the number of ordinary shares in issue company, an investment trust can borrow money to invest in and is stated on a cum-income basis.
additional investments for its portfolio.
The effect of the borrowing on the shareholders assets is called gearing.
If the Companys Net Asset Value Borrowings at Fair Value assets grow, the shareholders assets grow proportionately more Borrowings are valued at an estimate of their market worth.
because the debt remains the same.
But if the value of the The value of the borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on Companys assets falls, the situation is reversed.
Gearing can page 61. therefore enhance performance in rising markets but can adversely impact performance in falling markets.
Net Asset Value Borrowings at Par Gearing represents borrowings at par less cash and cash Borrowings are valued at their nominal par value.
The value of the equivalents including any outstanding trade or foreign exchange borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on page 61. settlements expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Net Asset Value Borrowings at Book Shareholders Potential gearing is the Companys borrowings expressed as a Funds percentage of shareholders funds.
Borrowings are valued at adjusted net issue proceeds.
The value Equity gearing is the Companys borrowings adjusted for cash of the borrowings at par, fair and book are set out on page 61. and bonds expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Discount Premium Leverage As stockmarkets and share prices vary, an investment trusts For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers share price is rarely the same as its NAV.
When the share price is AIFM Directive, leverage is any method which increases the lower than the NAV per share it is said to be trading at a discount.
Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the The size of the discount is calculated by subtracting the share use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the price from the NAV per share and is usually expressed as a Companys exposure and its net asset value and can be percentage of the NAV per share.
If the share price is higher than calculated on a gross and a commitment method.
Under the the NAV per share, this situation is called a premium.
gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys Total Return positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under The total return is the return to shareholders after reinvesting the the commitment method, exposure is calculated without the net dividend on the date that the share price goes xd.
deduction of sterling cash balances and after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Active Share Active share, a measure of how actively a portfolio is managed, is the percentage of the portfolio that differs from its comparative index.
It is calculated by deducting from 100 the percentage of the portfolio that overlaps with the comparative index.
An active share of 100 indicates no overlap with the index and an active share of zero indicates a portfolio that tracks the index.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 71 Directors Alternative Investment Registrar Fund Managers, Chairman: Computershare Investor Services PLC Secretaries and JPHS Scott FCII DL The Pavilions Registered Office Bridgwater Road Baillie Gifford & Co Limited LJ Dowley FCA Bristol Calton Square Professor JA Kay CBE FBA FRSE BS99 6ZZ 1 Greenside Row Professor PH Maxwell DPhil FRCP FMedSci Tel: 0370 707 1300 Edinburgh FC McBain ACA EH1 3AN Dr P Subacchi Tel: 0131 275 2000 www.
com Company Brokers Independent Auditor Depositary Cenkos Securities plc KPMG LLP BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited 6.7.
8 Tokenhouse Yard Saltire Court BNY Mellon Centre London 20 Castle Terrace 160 Queen Victoria Street EC2R 7AS Edinburgh London EH1 2EG Jefferies Hoare Govett EC4V 4LA Vintners Place 68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ www.
SC007058 ISIN GB00BLDYK618 Sedol BLDYK61 Ticker SMT Legal Entity Identifier: 213800G37DCS3Q9IJM38
