Annual Report 2017 142 Great Portland Estates Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies Basis of preparation Great Portland Estates plc is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of the registered ofce is given on page 186.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore the Group financial statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of properties and financial instruments.
The financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis asexplained in the Report of the Directors on page 132. significant judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to make certain judgements, assumptions and estimates.
Not all of the Groups accounting policies require the directors to make difficult, subjective or complex judgements or estimates.
Any estimates and judgements made are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Although these estimates are based on the directors best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results may differ from those estimates.
The following is intended to provide an understanding of the policies that management consider critical because of the level ofcomplexity, judgement or estimation involved in their application and their impact on the financial statements.
significant judgements: recognition of sales and purchases of property The Group recognises sales and purchases of property when the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the new owner.
Whilst in most instances this assessment is straightforward, arrangements such as forward sales, significant levels of deferred consideration or transactions with other complex arrangements require the directors to exercise judgement in recognising the transaction.
Key source of estimation uncertainty: property portfolio valuation The valuation to assess the fair value of the Groups investment properties is prepared by its external valuer.
The valuation is based upon a number of assumptions including future rental income, anticipated maintenance costs, future development costs and an appropriate discount rate.
The valuers also make reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties.
For the current year and prior year the directors adopted the valuation without adjustment, further information is provided in the accounting policy for investment property and note 10.
New accounting standards During the year ended 31 March 2017, the following accounting standards and guidance were adopted by the Group: Amendments to IFRS Annual improvements 20122014 cycle Amendments to IFRS 11 Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Amendments to IAS 27 Amendments to IAS 1 Amendments to IAS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 The adoption of the Standards and Interpretations has not signicantly impacted these financial statements.
At the date of approval of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases had not yet been adopted by the EU and have not been applied in these financial statements: Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash ows: disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses Amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments: clarifying how to account for certain types of share-based payment transactions IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 16 Leases Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 143 1 Accounting policies continued Amendments to IFRS 4 Insurance contracts: regarding the implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments Amendment to IAS 40 Investment property: relating to transfers of investment property Annual improvements 20142016 cycle IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration None of these are expected to have a significant effect on the financial statements of the Group.
Certain Standards which may have an impact are discussed below.
IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 replaces the classication and measurement models for financial instruments in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: recognition and measurement with three classication categories: amortised cost, fair value through profit or loss and fair value through other comprehensive income.
Due to the Groups limited use of complex financial instruments, IFRS 9 is not expected to have a material impact on its reported results.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers IFRS 15 establishes a single, principles-based revenue recognition model to be applied to all contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benets from the good or service.
IFRS 15 replaces IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
New disclosure requirements are also introduced.
The majority of the Groups revenue is derived from rental income which is within the scope of IFRS 15.
As a result, it is not anticipated that the new standard will have a material impact on the Groups reported results.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces IAS 17 Leases and requires all operating leases in excess of one year, where the Group is the lessee, tobeincluded on the Groups balance sheet, and recognise a right-of-use asset and a related lease liability representing the obligation to make lease payments.
The right-of-use asset will be assessed for impairment annually incorporating any onerous lease assessments and amortised on a straight-line basis, with the lease liability being amortised using the effective interest method.
Lessor accounting is unchanged from previous guidance.
As the Group is primarily a lessor, it is not anticipated that the new standard will have a material impact on the Groups reported results.
Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings for theyear ended 31 March 2017.
Subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled by the Group.
Control is assumed when the Group directs the financial and operating policies of an entity to benefit from its activities.
Rental income This comprises rental income and premiums on lease surrenders on investment properties for the year, exclusive of service charges receivable.
Tenant leases The directors have considered the potential transfer of risks and rewards of ownership in accordance with IAS 17 Leases for allproperties leased to tenants and in their judgement have determined that all such leases are operating leases.
Lease incentives Lease incentives, including rent-free periods and payments to tenants, are allocated to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term or on another systematic basis, if applicable.
The value of resulting accrued rental income is included within the respective property.
Other property expenses Irrecoverable running costs directly attributable to specic properties within the Groups portfolio are charged to the income statement as other property expenses.
Costs incurred in the improvement of the portfolio which, in the opinion of the directors, are not of a capital nature are written-off to the income statement as incurred.
Administration expenses Costs not directly attributable to individual properties are treated as administration expenses.
Financial statements Annual Report 2017 144 Great Portland Estates Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 1 Accounting policies continued Share-based payment The cost of granting share-based payments to employees and directors is recognised within administration expenses in the income statement.
The Group has used the Stochastic model to value the grants, which is dependent upon factors including the share price, expected volatility and vesting period, and the resulting fair value is amortised through the income statement over the vesting period.
The charge is reversed if it is likely that any non-market-based criteria will not be met.
Segmental analysis The directors are required to present the Groups financial information by business segment or geographical area.
This requires a review of the Groups organisational structure and internal reporting system to identify reportable segments and an assessment of where the Groups assets or customers are located.
All of the Groups revenue is generated from investment properties located in central London.
The properties are managed as a single portfolio by an asset management team whose responsibilities are not segregated by location or type, but are managed on an asset-by-asset basis.
The majority of the Groups assets are mixed-use, therefore the ofce, retail and any residential space is managed together.
Within the property portfolio, the Group has a number of properties under development.
The directors view the Groups development activities as an integral part of the life cycle of each of its assets rather than a separate business or division.
The nature of developing property means that whilst a property is under development it generates no revenue and has no operating results.
Once a development has completed, it returns to the investment property portfolio, or if it is a trading property, it is sold.
The directors have considered the nature of the business, how the business is managed and how they review performance and, in their judgement, the Group has only one reportable segment.
The components of the valuation, as provided by the external valuer, are set out in note 10.
Investment property Investment properties and investment properties under development are professionally valued on a fair value basis by qualied external valuers and the directors must ensure that they are satisfied that the valuation of the Groups properties isappropriate for inclusion in the accounts without adjustment.
The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the RICS Valuation Professional Standards Global January 2014 including the International Valuation Standards and the RICS Valuation Professional Standards UK January 2014 revised April 2015 the Red Book and have been primarily derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms length terms.
For investment property, this approach involves applying market-derived capitalisation yields to current and market-derived future income streams with appropriate adjustments for income voids arising from vacancies or rent-free periods.
These capitalisation yields and future income streams are derived from comparable property and leasing transactions and are considered to be the key inputs in the valuation.
Other factors that are taken into account in the valuations include the tenure of the property, tenancy details, planning, building and environmental factors that might affect the property.
In the case of investment property under development, the approach applied is the residual method of valuation, which is the investment method of valuation as described above with a deduction for the costs necessary to complete the development, together with an allowance for the remaining risk.
Sales and purchases of investment properties are recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership transfer, based on the terms and conditions of each transaction.
Trading property Trading property is being developed for sale or being held for sale after development is complete, and is carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes direct expenditure and capitalised interest.
Cost of sales, including costsassociated with off-plan residential sales, are expensed to the income statement as incurred.
Depreciation No depreciation is provided in respect of freehold investment properties and leasehold investment properties.
Plant and equipment is held at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided on plant and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less residual value prevailing at the balance sheet date of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as follows: Fixtures and ttings over three to five years.
Leasehold improvements over the term of the lease.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 145 1 Accounting policies continued Joint ventures Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method where, in the directors judgement, the Group has joint control of the entity.
The Groups level of control in its joint ventures is driven both by the individual agreements which set out how control is shared by the partners and how that control is exercised in practice.
The Group balance sheet contains the Groups share of the net assets of its joint ventures.
Balances with partners owed to or from the Group by joint ventures are included within investments.
The Groups share of joint venture profits and losses are included in the Group income statement in a single line.
All of the Groups joint ventures adopt the accounting policies of the Group for inclusion in the Group financial statements.
Income tax Current tax is the amount payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences between the tax base of an asset or liability and its carrying amount inthe balance sheet.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax assets can be utilised.
No provision is made for temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit.
Tax is included in the income statement except when it relates to items recognised directly inother comprehensive income or equity, in which case the related tax is also recognised directly in other comprehensive income or equity.
Pension benets The Group contributes to a dened benefit pension plan which is funded with assets held separately from those of the Group.
The full value of the net assets or liabilities of the pension fund is brought on to the balance sheet at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are taken to other comprehensive income: all other movements are taken to the income statement.
Capitalisation of interest Interest associated with direct expenditure on investment and trading properties under development is capitalised.
Direct expenditure includes the purchase cost of a site if it has been purchased with the specic intention to redevelop, but does not include the original book cost of a site where no intention existed.
Interest is capitalised from the start of the development work until the date of practical completion.
The rate used is the Groups weighted average cost of borrowings or, if appropriate, the rate on specic associated borrowings.
Financial instruments i Derivatives The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency uctuations and interest rate risks.
The Groups derivatives are measured at fair value in the balance sheet.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into.
ii Borrowings The Groups borrowings in the form of its debentures, private placement notes and bank loans are recognised initially at fair value, after taking account of any discount or premium on issue and attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, borrowings are held at amortised cost, with any discounts, premiums and attributable costs charged to the income statement using the effective interest rate method.
iii Convertible bond The Groups convertible bond can be settled in shares, cash or a combination of both at the Groups discretion.
The bonds have been designated at fair value through profit and loss upon initial recognition, with any gains or losses arising subsequently due to re-measurement being recognised in the income statement.
iv Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into a known amount of cash and are subject to insignicant risk of changes in value.
v Trade receivables and payables Trade receivables and payables are initially measured at fair value, and are subsequently measured atamortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
