Shareholder Information Communicating with Shareholders Trust Magazine A Scottish Mortgage web page at www.
com Promoting Scottish Mortgage Suggestions and Questions Baillie Gifford carries out extensive marketing activity to promote Any suggestions on how communications with shareholders can Scottish Mortgage to institutional, intermediary and direct be improved are welcome.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford Client investors.
The Board warmly supports the promotion of the plans Relations Team see contact details below and give them your described on page 67 in order to bring the merits of Scottish suggestions.
They will also be very happy to answer any Mortgage to as wide an audience as possible.
questions that you may have, either about Scottish Mortgage or the plans described on page 67.
Trust Magazine Literature in Alternative Formats Trust is the Baillie Gifford investment trust magazine which is published three times a year.
It provides an insight to our It is possible to provide copies of literature in alternative formats, investment approach by including interviews with our fund such as large print or audio.
Please contact the Baillie Gifford managers, as well as containing investment trust news, Client Relations Team for more information.
investment features and articles about the trusts managed by Client Relations Team Contact Details Baillie Gifford, including Scottish Mortgage.
Trust plays an important role in helping to explain our products so that readers Telephone: 0800 917 2112 can really understand them.
For a copy of Trust, please contact Your call may be recorded for training or monitoring purposes.
the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team see contact details E-mail: trustenquiries@bailliegifford.
com Fax: 0131 275 3955 Client Relations Team An online version of Trust can be found at Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited www.
Calton Square 1 Greenside Row Edinburgh EH1 3AN Scottish Mortgage on the Web Up-to-date information about Scottish Mortgage is on Scottish Mortgage specific queries the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Managers website at Please use the following contact details: www.
You will find full details of Website: www.
com Scottish Mortgage, including recent portfolio information and E-mail: scottishmortgage@bailliegifford.
Please note that Baillie Gifford is not permitted to give financial advice.
If you would like advice or if you have any questions about the suitability of any of these plans for you, please ask an authorised intermediary.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 69 Shareholder Information The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums The Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums seek to offer existing and prospective Scottish Mortgage shareholders the chance to hear presentations from the Managers, James Anderson and Tom Slater.
The most recent of these events was held in Birmingham at the end of March.
As there has proven to be a high level of demand over the past year for these events from shareholders, we will be looking to hold more of these in a variety of locations around the UK in the future.
The next Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum will be held on 22 June 2017.
It will take place at 6.00pm at the Andaz Hotel, 40 Liverpool Street, London EC2M 7QN.
At this evening event, James and Tom will be discussing their current investment enthusiasms and thoughts on the most exciting areas with potential for future growth.
After the presentations attendees will have the opportunity to put their questions directly to the speakers.
Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums Blue Sky Thinking for Tomorrows World Please visit www.
com to register for this event.
Details for all such Scottish Mortgage Investor Forums will be posted on this website as they become available.
Third Party Data Provider Disclaimer No third party data provider Provider makes any warranty, recommendations, forecasts, judgments, or any other express or implied, as to the accuracy, completeness or timeliness conclusions, or any course of action determined, by you or any of the data contained herewith nor as to the results to be obtained third party, whether or not based on the content, information or by recipients of the data.
No Provider shall in any way be liable to materials contained herein.
any recipient of the data for any inaccuracies, errors or omissions FTSE Index Data in the index data included in this document, regardless of cause, FTSE International Limited FTSE FTSE 2017.
FTSE is a or for any damages whether direct or indirect resulting therefrom.
trade mark of the London Stock Exchange Group companies and No Provider has any obligation to update, modify or amend the is used by FTSE International Limited under licence.
All rights in data or to otherwise notify a recipient thereof in the event that any the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings vest in FTSE and or its matter stated herein changes or subsequently becomes licensors.
Neither FTSE nor its licensors accept any liability for any inaccurate.
errors or omissions in the FTSE indices and or FTSE ratings or Without limiting the foregoing, no Provider shall have any liability underlying data and no party may rely on any FTSE indices, whatsoever to you, whether in contract including under an ratings and or data underlying data contained in this indemnity, in tort including negligence, under a warranty, under communication.
No further distribution of FTSE Data is permitted statute or otherwise, in respect of any loss or damage suffered by without FTSEs express written consent.
FTSE does not promote, you as a result of or in connection with any opinions, sponsor or endorse the content of this communication.
