Shareholder Information Cost-effective Ways to Buy and Hold Shares in Scottish Mortgage Press advertisement for Scottish Mortgage The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan available at www.
com Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited offers a number of The Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan plans that enable you to buy and hold shares of Scottish An excellent way for parents, grandparents or other adults to Mortgage cost-efficiently.
Purchases and sales are normally invest for a child subject to a dealing price spread and Government stamp duty of No initial charge 0.5% is payable on purchases.
No annual wrapper charge The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan The option of a designated account or a bare trust in favour of No initial charge the child No annual wrapper charge Flexible investment options: lump sum from 100 or monthly Normally cheaper than dealing through a stockbroker saving from just 25 Invest a lump sum from 250 or monthly from just 30 A withdrawal charge of just 22 No maximum investment limits Online Management Service Stop and start saving at any time with no charge You can also open and manage your Share Plan Childrens Savings Plan and or ISA online, through our secure Online Twice weekly dealing usually Tuesday and Friday Management Service OMS which can be accessed through the A withdrawal charge of just 22 Baillie Gifford website at www.
As well as being able to view the details of your plan online, the service also The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA allows you to: Tax-efficient investment Obtain current valuations: No set-up charge Make lump sum investments, except where there is more than Flat rate annual management charge currently of 32.50 VAT one holder: Lump sum investment from 2,000 currently up to a Sell part or all of your holdings, except where there is more maximum of 20,000 each year than one holder: Save monthly from 100 Switch between investment trusts, except where there is A withdrawal charge of just 22 more than one holder: and ISA Transfers Update certain personal details e. g. address and telephone number.
Transfer existing ISAs from other plan managers into the Baillie Gifford ISA Please note that a bare trust cannot be opened via OMS.
A bare trust application form must be completed.
Consolidate your plans into a managed global investment Certain restrictions apply for accounts where there is more than Minimum transfer value 2,000 one holder.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 67 Shareholder Information Further details of the risks associated with investing in the Further information Company, including how charges are applied, can be found at If you would like more information on any of the plans described www.
com, or by calling Baillie Gifford on above, please contact the Baillie Gifford Client Relations Team 0800 917 2112. see contact details on page 69.
The information and opinions expressed within this Annual Report Risks and Financial Statements are subject to change without notice.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
This information has been issued and approved by Baillie Gifford Scottish Mortgage is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
& Co Limited, the Managers and Secretaries, and does not in any The value of its shares and any income from them can fall as way constitute investment advice.
well as rise and investors may not get back the amount Baillie Gifford Savings Management Limited BGSM is the invested.
manager of The Baillie Gifford Investment Trust Share Plan, The Scottish Mortgages risk could be increased by its investment Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan and The Baillie Gifford in unlisted investments.
These assets may be more difficult to Investment Trust ISA.
BGSM is wholly owned by Baillie Gifford & buy or sell, so changes in their prices may be greater.
Co. BGSM and Baillie Gifford & Co are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Baillie Gifford only Scottish Mortgage invests in overseas securities.
Changes in provides information about its products and does not provide the rates of exchange may also cause the value of your investment advice.
investment and any income it may pay to go down or up.
The staff of Baillie Gifford and the Directors of Scottish Mortgage Scottish Mortgage invests in emerging markets where may hold shares in Scottish Mortgage and may buy or sell shares difficulties in dealing, settlement and custody could arise, from time to time.
resulting in a negative impact on the value of your investment.
Scottish Mortgage has borrowed money to make further investments sometimes known as gearing or leverage.
The risk is that when this money is repaid by the Company, the value of the investments may not be enough to cover the borrowing and interest costs, and the Company will make a loss.
If the Companys investments fall in value, any borrowings will increase the amount of this loss.
Scottish Mortgage can buy back its own shares.
The risks from borrowing, referred to above, are increased when a Company buys back its shares.
Market values for securities which have become difficult to trade may not be readily available and there can be no assurance that any value assigned to such securities will accurately reflect the price the Company might receive upon their sale.
Scottish Mortgage can make use of derivatives which may impact on its performance.
Scottish Mortgage charges 75% of the investment management fee and 75% of borrowing costs to capital which reduces the capital value.
Also, when income is low, the remaining expenses may be greater than the total income received, meaning the capital value would be further reduced.
You should note that tax rates and reliefs may change at any time and their value depends on circumstances.
The favourable tax treatment of ISAs may change.
Details of other risks that apply to investment in the savings vehicles shown on page 67 are contained in the product brochures.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is not authorised or regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
