Shareholder Information Further Shareholder Information By quoting the reference number on your share certificate you How to Invest can check your holding on the Registrars website at The Companys shares are traded on the London Stock www.
They can be bought by placing an order with a stockbroker, by asking a professional adviser to do so, or through They also offer a free, secure share management website service the Baillie Gifford savings vehicles see page 67.
You can also find which allows you to: specific details about investing in Scottish Mortgage at view your share portfolio and see the latest market price of www.
your shares: Sources of Further Information on the Company calculate the total market value of each shareholding: The price of shares is quoted daily in the Financial Times and can view price histories and trading graphs: also be found on the Scottish Mortgage pages of the Baillie register to receive communications from the Company, Gifford website at www.
com, Trustnet at including the Annual Report and Financial Statements, in www.
co. uk and on other financial websites.
Company electronic format: factsheets are also available on the Baillie Gifford website and are updated monthly.
These are available from Baillie Gifford on update bank mandates and change address details: request.
use online dealing services: and Scottish Mortgage Share Identifiers pay dividends directly into your overseas bank account in your ISIN GB00BLDYK618 chosen local currency.
Sedol BLDYK61 To take advantage of this service, please log in at www.
co. uk and enter your Shareholder Ticker SMT Reference Number and Company Code this information can be Legal Entity Identifier 213800G37DCS3Q9IJM38 found on the last dividend voucher or your share certificate.
The Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the London Dividend Reinvestment Plan Stock Exchange and their price is shown in the Financial Times, Computershare operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan which Daily Telegraph and The Scotsman under Investment Companies.
can be used to buy additional shares instead of receiving your AIC dividend via cheque or into your bank account.
For further Scottish Mortgage was one of the founding members of The information log in to www.
co. uk and follow the Association of Investment Companies in 1932.
The AICs website instructions or telephone 0370 707 1694. www.
co. uk contains detailed information about Electronic Communications and Proxy Voting investment trusts, such as factsheets and statistics on the If you hold stock in your own name you can choose to receive investment trust industry.
communications from the Company, and vote, in electronic Key Dates format.
This method reduces costs, is environmentally friendly Ordinary shareholders normally receive two dividends in respect and, for many, is convenient too.
The paragraphs below explain of each financial year.
An interim dividend is paid at the end of how you can use these services.
November early December and a final dividend is paid in early Electronic Communications If you would like to take July.
The Annual General Meeting is normally held in late June or advantage of this service, please visit our Registrars website early July.
You will need your shareholder reference number which is on your share Capital Gains Tax certificate and tax voucher to hand.
If you then agree to the For Capital Gains Tax indexation purposes, the market value terms and conditions, in future, on the day that documents adjusted for the bonus issue of 4 for 1 and the stock split of are sent to shareholders by post, you will receive an e-mail 5 for 1 of an ordinary share in the Company as at 31 March 1982 providing the website address link to the documents.
you register, paper documents will be available on request.
Share Register Enquiries Electronic Proxy Voting You can also return proxies Computershare Investor Services PLC maintains the share electronically at www.
If you have register on behalf of the Company.
In the event of queries registered for electronic communications you will be issued a regarding shares registered in your own name, please contact the PIN number to use when returning proxies to the secure Registrars on 0370 707 1300.
You do not need to register for electronic communications to use electronic proxy voting, paper proxy This helpline also offers an automated self-service functionality forms will contain a PIN number to allow you to return proxies available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week which allows you to: electronically.
hear the latest share price: If you have any questions about this service please contact confirm your current share holding balance: Computershare on 0370 707 1300. confirm your payment history: and order Change of Address, Dividend Bank Mandate and Stock Transfer forms.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 65
