Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 185 Glossary Non-PIDs Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM Dividends from profits of the Groups taxable Building Research Establishment method of assessing, residual business.
rating and certifying the sustainability of buildings.
Core West End Areas of London with W1 and SW1 postcodes.
Portfolio Internal Rate of Return IRR Earnings Per Share EPS The rate of return that if used as a discount rate and applied profit after tax divided by the weighted average number tothe projected cash ows from the portfolio would result ofordinary shares in issue.
EPRA metrics Property Income Distributions PIDs Standard calculation methods for adjusted EPS and NAV Dividends from profits of the Groups tax-exempt property and other operating metrics as setout by the European rental business.
Public Real Estate Association EPRA intheir BestPractice and Policy Recommendations.
REIT UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
Estimated Rental Value ERV The market rental value of lettable space as estimated Rent roll bytheGroups valuers at each balance sheet date.
The annual contracted rental income.
Fair value Investment property Reversionary or under-rented The percentage by which ERV exceeds rents passing, The amount as estimated by the Groups valuers for which aproperty should exchange on the date of valuation togetherwith the estimated rental value of vacant space.
between awilling buyer and a willing seller in an armslength transaction after proper marketing wherein the Reversionary yield parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and The anticipated yield, which the initial yield will rise to once therent reaches the ERV.
In line withmarket practice, values arestated net of purchasers costs.
Total Accounting Return TAR Growth of EPRA NAV plus dividends paid.
IPD The Investment Property Databank Limited IPD is a Total Property Return TPR company that produces an independent benchmark ofproperty returns.
Capital growth in the portfolio plus net rental income derived fromholding these properties plus profit on sale ofdisposals expressed as a percentage return on the IPD central London An index, compiled by IPD, of the central and inner London periods opening value.
properties in their March annual valued universes.
Total Shareholder Return TSR Like-for-like L The growth in the ordinary share price as quoted on the London Stock Exchange plus dividends per share received The element of the portfolio that has been held for the whole of the period of account.
for the period expressed as a percentage of the share price at the beginning of the period.
Loan To Value LTV Total bank loans, private placement notes, convertible Triple net asset value NNNAV NAV adjusted to include the fair value of the Groups bonds at nominal value and debenture stock, net ofcash including our share of jointventures balances, expressed financial liabilities, deferred tax and tax arising on sale of asapercentage of the market value ofthe property trading properties on a diluted basis.
portfolio including our share of joint ventures.
True equivalent yield The constant capitalisation rate which, if applied to all cash Net assets per share or Net Asset Value NAV Equity shareholders funds divided by the number of ows from an investment property, including current rent, ordinary shares at the balance sheet date.
reversions tocurrent market rent and such items as voids and expenditures, equates to the market value having taken Net gearing into account notional purchasers costs.
Assumes rent is Total Group borrowings including the convertible bonds received quarterly in advance.
at nominal value less short-term deposits and cash as apercentage of equity shareholders funds, calculated Vacancy rate The element of a property which is unoccupied but available inaccordance with our bank covenants.
forletting, expressed as the ERV of the vacant space divided Net initial yield bytheERV of the total portfolio.
Annual net rents on investment properties as a percentage of the investment property valuation having added notional Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term WAULT The Weighted Average Unexpired Lease Term expressed purchasers costs.
