T H WAVERLEY BRIDGE E M O U N D Shareholder Information Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2EP on BUS Thursday, 29 June 2017 at 4.30pm.
STATION If you have any queries as to how to vote or how to attend the TRAM meeting, please call us on 0800 917 2112.
STOP Baillie Gifford may record your call.
If you are unable to attend the Annual General Meeting, you may wish to consider registering for the Scottish Mortgage Investor Forum in London on 22 June see page 70 for details.
TRAM EDINBURGH STOP WAVERLEY STATION SCOTT MONUMENT MERCHANTS SCOTTISH HALL NATIONAL By Rail: Edinburgh Waverley GALLERY By Bus: Lothian Buses local services include: 1, 3, 4, 15, 19, 22, 25, 29, 30, 31, 33, 34, 37, 41 Notice is hereby given that an Annual General Meeting of Scottish 12.
That: Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company will be held at a the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised The Merchants Hall, 22 Hanover Street, Edinburgh EH2 2EP on pursuant to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 the Thursday 29 June 2017 at 4.30 pm for the purposes of Act to allot shares in the Company, or to grant rights considering and, if thought fit, passing the following Resolutions, to subscribe for or convert any security into shares in the of which Resolutions 1 to 12 and 14 will be proposed as ordinary Company, up to a maximum nominal amount of Resolutions and Resolutions 13 and 15 will be proposed as 6,861,847.40: and special resolutions: b the authority given by this Resolution: 1.
To receive and adopt the Companys Annual Report and i shall be in substitution for all pre-existing authorities Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March under section 551 of the Act: and 2017, together with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors report thereon.
ii unless renewed, revoked or varied in accordance with the Act, shall expire on 29 September 2018 or, if 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy.
earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General 3.
To approve the Directors Annual Report on Remuneration for Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018 save that the financial year ended 31 March 2017. the Company may, before such expiry, make any offer 4.
To declare a final dividend of 1.61p per Ordinary Share.
or enter into an agreement which would or might require the allotment of shares in the Company, or the 5.
To re-elect Mr LJ Dowley as a Director of the Company.
grant of rights to subscribe for or to convert any 6.
To re-elect Professor JA Kay as a Director of the Company.
security into shares in the Company, after such expiry.
To re-elect Professor PH Maxwell as a Director of the 13.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out in the Company.
Notice of Annual General Meeting dated 26 May 2017 the Allotment Authority, the Directors be given power pursuant 8.
To re-elect Ms FC McBain as a Director of the Company.
to sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006 the 9.
To re-elect Dr P Subacchi as a Director of the Company.
Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of section 10.
To re-appoint KPMG LLP as Independent Auditor of the 560 1 of the Act for cash pursuant to the Allotment Authority, Company to hold office until the conclusion of the next Annual and to sell treasury shares for cash, as if section 561 1 of the General Meeting at which the Financial Statements are laid Act did not apply to such allotment or sale, provided that such before the Company.
To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of a shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities or the the Independent Auditor of the Company.
sale of treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,861,847.40: b shall be in substitution for all pre-existing powers under sections 570 and 573 of the Act: and c shall expire at the same time as the Allotment Authority, save that the Company may before expiry of the power conferred on the Directors by this Resolution make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
62 Annual Report 2017 YORK PLACE HERIOT ROW QUEEN STREET HILL STREET ROSE STREET ROSE STREET THISTLE STREET THISTLE STREET PRINCES STREET PRINCES STREET PRINCES STREET GARDENS GEORGE STREET GEORGE STREET ST ANDREW SQUARE ST ANDREW SQUARE HANOVER STREET SOUTH ST DAVID STREET CASTLE STREET FREDERICK STREET Shareholder Information 14.
That the Directors be authorised for the purposes of Notes LR15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of 1.
As a member you are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to the Financial Conduct Authority to allot ordinary shares and to exercise all or any of your rights to attend, speak and vote at sell treasury shares for cash at a price below the net asset the AGM.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company but value per share of those shares without first offering those must attend the AGM to represent you.
You may appoint shares pro rata to existing Shareholders.
more than one proxy provided each proxy is appointed to exercise rights attached to different shares.
That, in substitution for any existing authority, but without appoint a proxy using the procedure set out in these notes prejudice to the exercise of any such authority prior to the and the notes to the proxy form.
You may not use any date hereof, the Company be generally and unconditionally electronic address provided either in this notice or any related authorised, in accordance with section 701 of the Companies documents including the Financial Statements and proxy Act 2006 the Act to make market purchases within the form to communicate with the Company for any purpose meaning of section 693 4 of the Act of its ordinary shares, other than those expressly stated.
either for retention as treasury shares for future reissue, resale, transfer or for cancellation, provided that: 2.
To be valid any proxy form or other instrument appointing a proxy, together with any power of attorney or other authority a the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby under which it is signed or a certified copy thereof, must be authorised to be purchased is 205,718,185 or, if less, the received by post or during normal business hours only by number representing approximately 14.99 per cent.
of the hand at the Registrars of the Company at Computershare issued share capital of the Company on the date on which Investor Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, this Resolution is passed: Bristol, BS99 6ZY or www.
com no later b the minimum price excluding expenses which may be than 2 days excluding non-working days before the time of paid for each ordinary share shall be the nominal value of the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies c the maximum price excluding expenses which may be through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may paid for any ordinary share purchased pursuant to this do so by using the procedures described in the CREST authority shall not be more than the higher of: Manual and or by logging on to the website i 5 per cent.
above the average closing price on the www.
CREST personal members or London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST five business days immediately preceding the date of members who have appointed a voting service provider s, purchase: and should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on ii the higher price of the last independent trade of an their behalf.
ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for such a share on the London Stock Exchange: and 4.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message d unless previously varied, revoked or renewed by the a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated Company in general meeting, the authority hereby in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland Limiteds conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual specifications, and must contain the information required for General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018, save such instruction, as described in the CREST Manual.
The that the Company may, prior to the expiry of such message, regardless of whether it constitutes the authority, enter into a contract or contracts to purchase appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the instruction ordinary shares under such authority which will or might given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be be completed or executed wholly or partly after the valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the Companys expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of registrar ID 3RA50 no later than 2 days excluding nonordinary shares pursuant to any such contract or working days before the time of the meeting or any contracts.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Application Host from which By order of the Board the Companys registrar is able to retrieve the message by Baillie Gifford & Co Limited enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
After Company Secretaries this time any change of instructions to proxies appointed 26 May 2017 through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 63 Shareholder Information 5.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST 12.
The members of the Company may require the Company to sponsors or voting service providers should note that publish on its website, without payment a statement which Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available is also passed to the Auditor setting out any matter relating to special procedures in CREST for any particular message.
the audit of the Companys accounts, including the Auditors Normal system timings and limitations will, therefore, apply in report and the conduct of the audit.
The Company will be relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the required to do so once it has received such requests from responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if either members representing at least 5 per cent.
of the total the CREST member is a CREST personal member, or voting rights of the Company or at least 100 members who sponsored member, or has appointed a voting service have a relevant right to vote and hold shares in the Company provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting on which there has been paid up an average sum per service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary member of at least 100.
Such requests must be made in to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the writing and must state your full name and address and be CREST service by any particular time.
In this connection, sent to the Company at Calton Square, 1 Greenside Row, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST Edinburgh, EH1 3AN.
sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, 13.
Information regarding the Annual General Meeting, including to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical information required by section 311A of the Companies Act limitations of the CREST system and timings.
2006, is available from the Companys page of the Managers 6.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction website at www.
in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the 14.
Members have the right to ask questions at the meeting in Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. accordance with section 319A of the Companies Act 2006.
The return of a completed proxy form or other instrument of 15.
Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more proxy will not prevent you attending the AGM and voting in corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all of person if you wish.
its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in 8.
Shareholders participating in the Baillie Gifford Investment relation to the same shares.
Trust Share Plan, the Baillie Gifford Childrens Savings Plan or 16.
As at 11 May 2017 being the last practicable date prior to the the Baillie Gifford Investment Trust ISA who wish to vote and publication of this notice the Companys issued share capital or attend the meeting must complete and return the enclosed consisted of 1,372,369,485 ordinary shares, carrying one vote reply-paid Form of Direction.
Therefore, the total voting rights in the Company as at 9.
Pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities 11 May 2017 were 1,372,369,485 votes.
Regulations 2001 and section 311 of the Companies Act 17.
Any person holding 3 per cent.
or more of the total voting 2006 the Company specifies that to be entitled to attend and rights of the Company who appoints a person other than the vote at the Annual General Meeting and for the purpose of Chairman of the meeting as his proxy will need to ensure that the determination by the Company of the votes they may both he she and his her proxy complies with their respective cast, shareholders must be registered in the Register of disclosure obligations under the UK Disclosure and Members of the Company no later than 48 hours excluding Transparency Rules.
non-working days prior to the commencement of the AGM or 18.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company.
Changes to the Register of Members after the relevant deadline shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend and vote at the meeting.
Any person to whom this notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a Nominated Person may, under an agreement between him her and the shareholder by whom he she was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Annual General Meeting.
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he she may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
The statement of the rights of shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes 1 and 2 above does not apply to Nominated Persons.
The rights described in those Notes can only be exercised by shareholders of the Company.
