Financials F Financials inancials 115 115 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
General information Going concern basis BTG plc the Company is a company incorporated and After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable domiciled in the United Kingdom and listed on the expectation that the Company and the Group have London Stock Exchange.
The consolidated financial adequate resources to continue in operational existence statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March for the next twelve months.
Accordingly, they continue to 2017 comprise the results of the Company and its adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual subsidiary undertakings together referred to as the Report and Accounts.
Group and the Groups interest in associates.
This conclusion has been reached having considered The financial statements were approved for issue by the the effect of liquidity risk on the Groups ability to operate Board on 15 May 2017. effectively.
Currently, liquidity risk is not considered a significant business risk to the Group given its level of The financial statements have been prepared in net cash and cash equivalents, together with its cash accordance with the Groups accounting policies as flow projections.
The Group does not currently require approved by the Board and described below.
significant levels of debt financing to operate its business.
Further details of the Groups policies and Accounting standards adopted in the year objectives around liquidity risk are given in note 21 to the No standards and interpretations issued by the EU Accounts and are discussed in the Strategic Report on adopted in the year had a significant impact on the Group.
The key liquidity risks faced by the Group are considered to be the failure of banks where funds are deposited and the failure of key licensees, distribution Accounting standards issued but not partners, wholesalers or insurers.
yet effective IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers, was In addition to the liquidity risks considered above, the issued by the IASB in May 2014 and will be implemented directors have also considered the following factors by the Group from 1 April 2018.
The Standard contains a when reaching the conclusion to continue to adopt the new set of principles on when and how to recognise and going concern basis: measure revenue as well as new requirements related to Many of the Groups products are life-saving in disclosures.
The new standard replaces IAS 18 Revenues nature, providing some protection against an and related interpretations.
The Group does not anticipate uncertain economic outlook: that the new standard will have a material effect on the BTG has a 100m multi-currency revolving credit Groups consolidated financial statements.
facility RCF, with an option to extend this RCF by IFRS 9 Financial instruments was issued by the IASB a further 100m.
The RCF has a three-year term, in July 2014, effective for accounting periods beginning which expires in November 2018, with an option to on or after 1 January 2018.
The Group is currently extend for a further year.
The RCF currently remains assessing the impact of IFRS 9 on the Groups undrawn: and consolidated financial statements.
The Groups principal licensees are global industry IFRS 16 Leases was issued by the IASB in January leaders in their respective fields and the Groups 2016, effective for accounting periods beginning on or royalty-generating intellectual property consists of after 1 January 2019.
The Group is currently assessing a portfolio of licensees.
the impact of IFRS 16 on the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Seasonality of the business Revenues from the Groups marketed products are dependent on both the timing of shipments of product to the Groups distributors and the underlying demand for the products.
CroFab, in particular, demonstrates seasonality since the main snakebite season in the US, when the product is in highest demand, runs from March to October.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 116 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Significant accounting policies b Basis of consolidation The principal accounting policies adopted in the Subsidiary undertakings preparation of these financial statements are set out Subsidiary undertakings are entities controlled by the below.
These policies have been consistently applied Group.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to all years presented unless otherwise stated.
to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns a Basis of accounting and preparation through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiary undertakings are included in of financial statements the consolidated financial statements from the date that The Group financial statements have been prepared control commences until the date that control ceases.
and approved by the directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Acquisition accounting by the EU Adopted IFRSs.
The purchase method is used to account for the The Group financial statements are presented in sterling, acquisition of businesses by the Group.
The cost of an all values are rounded to the nearest 0.1m except where acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets otherwise indicated, and these financial statements have given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred been prepared on the historical cost basis modified to or assumed at the date of exchange.
Identifiable assets include revaluation to fair value of certain financial acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed instruments and the recognition of assets acquired and are measured initially at their fair values on the date of liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed through acquisition, irrespective of the extent of any nonbusiness combination assets at their fair value.
Where the consideration transferred, together with the non-controlling interest exceeds the fair The preparation of the financial statements in conformity value of the net assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities with generally accepted accounting principles requires acquired, the excess is recorded as goodwill.
Where management to make estimates and assumptions that necessary, adjustments are made to the financial affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the statements of subsidiaries to bring accounting policies date of the financial statements and the reported amounts into line with the Groups accounting policies.
of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Merger reserve Judgements made by the directors in the application of these accounting policies that have a significant effect on A merger reserve is used where more than 90% of the the financial statements and estimates with a significant shares in a subsidiary are acquired and the risk of material adjustment in future periods are consideration includes the issue of new shares by the discussed in note 3 Critical accounting judgements Company, thereby attracting merger relief under s612 and key sources of estimation uncertainty.
and s613 of the Companies Act 2006.
In the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group changed the Translation reserve presentation of its consolidated income statement.
The translation reserve comprises all foreign exchange Under the new presentation: differences arising from the translation of the financial a No separate column to disclose acquisition statements of foreign operations.
adjustments and reorganisation costs arising on corporate acquisitions is presented.
The results for Transactions eliminated on consolidation each period are now disclosed in a single column.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group b Foreign exchange gains or losses, Profit or loss transactions, are eliminated in preparing the on disposal of property, plant and equipment and consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised losses are intangible assets and Other operating expenses eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only which were previously disclosed separately on the to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
face of the consolidated income statement are now disclosed within Other operating income.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 117 117 c Operating segments f Goodwill An operating segment is defined as a component of the All business combinations are accounted for by applying Group i that engages in business activities from which the purchase method.
Goodwill represents amounts it may earn revenues and incur expenses: ii whose arising on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings.
operating results are regularly reviewed by the Groups In respect of business combinations that have occurred chief operating decision maker to make resource since 1 April 2004, goodwill represents the excess allocation decisions and monitor its performance: and between the consideration paid and the fair value of the iii for which discrete financial information is available.
assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed.
d Foreign currency Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated i Foreign currency transactions impairment losses.
Goodwill is deemed to have an Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the indefinite useful life and is allocated to groups of foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
cash-generating units, being the Groups operating segments.
Goodwill is tested at least annually for Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign impairment see 2 l. currencies at the balance sheet date are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign g Intangible assets exchange differences arising on translation are i Initial recognition recognised in the income statement.
Intangible assets acquired as a result of a business Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured at combination are initially recognised at their fair value.
historical cost or stated at fair value are translated using the exchange rate ruling at the date of transaction or the Other intangible assets are initially recognised at cost.
date the fair value was determined.
Exchange gains losses on retranslation of foreign currency transactions ii Amortisation are recognised in the income statement within Other Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis, operating income.
over the useful economic life of the asset.
In determining the appropriate useful economic life of the asset, ii Financial statements of foreign operations consideration is given to the expected useful economic The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are life of the asset or remaining patent life if different.
translated into sterling at exchange rates ruling at the The useful economic life of each class of asset is balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of determined as follows: foreign operations are translated into sterling at rates Developed technology: expected useful economic approximating to the exchange rates ruling at the dates life, taking into account specific product and market of the transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising characteristics for each developed technology: on retranslation of foreign operations are recognised Contractual relationships: period to expiry of the directly in the currency translation reserve presented in relevant contractual relationship: other reserves.
In-process research and development: amortisation is not charged until the asset is generating an e Derivative financial instruments economic return, at which point it is amortised over Derivative financial instruments, being forward foreign its expected useful economic life: exchange contracts, are recorded in the balance sheet Computer software: the shorter of the licence period at their fair value, and changes from subsequent and three years: remeasurement to fair value at each balance sheet date are recognised immediately in the income statement Patents: period to patent expiry: and through Financial income fair value gains or Purchase of contractual rights: period to expiry Financial expense fair value losses as appropriate.
of the relevant contractual right.
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is derived from observable inputs from active markets at the balance sheet date.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 118 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Depreciation is not charged until the asset is brought 2.
Significant accounting policies into use.
The residual value of property, plant and continued equipment is reassessed annually.
The following useful economic lives are applied: Developed technology 2 to 25 years iii Income statement disclosure Contractual relationships 2 to 15 years Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment is included within Cost of sales, Selling, Computer software 3 years general and administrative expenses or Research and Patents up to 20 years development dependent on the function to which the Purchase of contractual rights 2 to 10 years related property, plant and equipment relates.
Profits losses on disposals of property, plant and iii Income statement disclosure equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds Amortisation relating to acquired intangible assets is with the carrying amount of the relevant property, presented within Amortisation of acquired intangible plant and equipment, and are included in Other assets.
Other amortisation is shown within Cost of sales, operating income.
Selling, general and administrative expenses or Research and development dependent on the function to which iv Subsequent expenditure the related intangible asset relates.
Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of property, plant and equipment is capitalised only when it iv Subsequent expenditure is probable that the Group will realise future economic Expenditure subsequent to the initial acquisition of benefits from the asset.
intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific v Impairment asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is If property, plant and equipment is considered to have expensed as incurred.
suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated recoverable amount in accordance with the v Impairment Groups policy on impairment see note 2 l. If an intangible asset is considered to have suffered impairment in value it is written down to its estimated i Inventories recoverable amount in accordance with the Groups Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net policy on impairment see note 2 l. realisable value, using the first in, first out method.
Cost comprises materials, direct labour and a share h Property, plant and equipment of production overheads appropriate to the relevant i Owned assets stage of production.
Provision is made for obsolete, Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.
less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses Net realisable value is determined at the balance sheet see note 2 l. date on commercially saleable products based on estimated selling price less all further costs to completion and all relevant marketing, selling and ii Depreciation distribution costs.
Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write assets down to their residual Inventories relating to research and development value over the following useful economic lives: projects are expensed to the income statement unless the Group considers it highly probable it will realise Buildings and improvements 10 to 20 years economic value from their sale or use.
Leasehold improvements 2 to 10 years If the circumstances that previously caused these Plant and machinery 3 to 15 years inventories to be written down below cost subsequently Furniture and equipment 2 to 15 years change and there is clear evidence of an increase in Motor vehicles 5 years realisable value, the write down is reversed.
Computer hardware 3 to 5 years B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 119 119 j Trade and other receivables m Employee benefits Trade and other receivables do not carry interest and are i Defined contribution plans stated at amortised cost net of any provisions.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the k Cash and cash equivalents income statement as incurred.
Payments made to state-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and in the same manner as payments to defined contribution call deposits.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on plans where the Groups obligations under the plans are demand and form an integral part of the Groups cash equivalent to a defined contribution retirement benefit management and for which the Group has a legal right plan.
The funds of the schemes are independent of the of set-off are included as a component of cash and cash Groups finances.
equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cash flows.
ii Defined benefit plan Cash deposits with a maturity of greater than three For the Groups defined benefit pension plan, the cost of months are classified as held to maturity financial assets.
providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried l Impairment out at each balance sheet date.
The assumptions used to All assets are reviewed for impairment when there is an determine the valuation are shown in note 18.
gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
Actuarial gains and losses are In addition, goodwill and unamortised intangible recognised outside the income statement and presented assets principally IPR&D are reviewed for impairment in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
Administrative costs of running the scheme are An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying expensed directly in the Income Statement.
Past service amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds cost is recognised immediately through the Income its recoverable amount.
Assets of the pension scheme are held The Group reviews its assets for impairment as follows: separately from the Groups assets.
i Property, plant and equipment iii Share-based payments Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for The share option programme allows Group employees impairment whenever there are events that indicate that to acquire shares of the Company, subject to certain an impairment may have occurred.
The fair value of options granted is recognised is recognised if an assets carrying amount exceeds the as an expense of employment in the income statement greater of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell.
with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is Impairment losses are recognised within Cost of sales, measured at the date of grant and spread over the period Selling, general and administrative expenses or during which the employees become unconditionally Research and development dependent on the function to entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options which the relevant property, plant and equipment relates.
granted is measured using a Black-Scholes model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon ii Amortised intangible assets which the options were granted.
The amount recognised Amortised intangible assets are tested for impairment as an expense in any year is adjusted to reflect the actual whenever there are indications that their carrying value number of share options that are expected to vest.
For the purpose of impairment However if share options fail to vest due to the testing, intangible assets are grouped at the lowest levels Companys total shareholders return not achieving the for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
designated performance threshold for vesting, no such Any impairment losses are recognised immediately in adjustment takes place.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 120 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued i Products 2.
Significant accounting policies The Group recognises revenue for product sales when continued each condition of IAS 18, paragraph 14 is whollyn Trade and other payables satisfied.
Where sales arrangements specify a second Trade and other payables, except for contingent element of revenue contingent upon a specified event, consideration liabilities, are not interest bearing and are this revenue is not recognised until this event has stated at amortised cost occurred and it is certain that the economic benefit triggered by this event will flow to the Group.
In cases Contingent consideration liabilities are initially where product is sold to a customer with a right of recognised at their fair value.
The fair value of replacement, the Group views the transaction as a contingent consideration liabilities are reassessed at multi-element arrangement and a portion of the value each subsequent balance sheet date, with any change from the sale is deferred and allocated to the replacement in fair value being immediately reflected in the right based on the fair value of the replacement right.
Trade and other payables also includes provisions.
ii Royalties A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Revenues from the Groups licensed programmes are Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a generated following the grant of a licence to a third party result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of to undertake additional development and economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
commercialisation of a research and development If the effect is material, provisions are determined by programme or other intellectual property rights.
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of In addition to an upfront payment, BTG may be entitled the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks to additional revenues such as milestone payments or specific to the relevant liability.
royalties on revenues generated by the licensee.
Revenues associated with royalty arrangements may in A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when turn be linked to additional obligations on BTG.
the expected benefits to be derived by the Group from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting Royalty income is generated by sales of products its obligations under the contract.
incorporating the Groups proprietary technology.
Royalty revenues are recognised once the amounts due A charge for reorganisation costs is taken to the income can be reliably estimated based on the sale of underlying statement when the Group has approved a detailed and products and recoverability is assured.
Where there is formal reorganisation plan, and the reorganisation has insufficient historical data on sales and returns to fulfil either commenced or the Group has a constructive these requirements, for example in the case of a new obligation, for example having made an announcement product, the royalty revenue will not be recognised until publicly to the employee or the Group as a whole.
the Group can reliably estimate the underlying sales.
A contingent liability is disclosed in the notes to the accounts, but not recognised on the statement of p Cost of sales financial position, if a material outflow of economic Cost of sales includes the direct costs incurred in benefits is expected to be required to settle a legal or manufacturing and bringing products to sale in the constructive obligation as a result of a past event, where market, revenue sharing costs, and amortisation of the probability of such an outflow is less than probable other intangibles.
but more than remote or the liability cannot be Revenue sharing costs represent amounts due under reliably estimated.
royalty arrangements to licensors or assignees of technology and similar directly attributable items.
o Revenue recognition Amounts are recognised upon recognition by the Group Revenue represents amounts received or receivable in of amounts due from a licensee.
They are recognised on respect of the sale of products to customers during the an accruals basis in accordance with the individual year, net of trade discounts given, rebates and agreements relating to the relevant technology, in line returns, and value added tax, and in respect of with revenue recognition for the related royalties.
royalty arrangements: B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 121 121 q Research and development s Financial income Research expenditure is charged to the income Financial income comprises interest income receivable statement in the period in which it is incurred.
during the year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, fair value adjustments and gains on Expenditure incurred on development projects relating to settlement of foreign exchange forward contracts, the design and testing of new or improved products is and fair value adjustments for contingent recognised as intangible assets when it is probable that consideration liabilities.
the project will generate future economic benefit, considering factors including its commercial and t Financial expense technological feasibility, status of regulatory approval, and Financial expense comprises interest payable during the the ability to measure costs reliably.
Other development year, calculated using the effective interest rate method, expenditures are recognised as an expense as incurred.
fair value adjustments and losses on settlement of Development expenditure previously recognised as an foreign exchange forward contracts, and fair value expense is not recognised as an asset in a subsequent adjustments on contingent consideration liabilities, period.
Development expenditure that has a finite useful other financing costs and borrowings.
life and which has been capitalised is amortised from the commencement of the commercial production of the product on a straight-line basis over the period of its u Tax expected benefit.
No development expenditure has been Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current capitalised in either the current or prior year.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items Property, plant and equipment used for research and recognised directly in equity, in which case the related development is depreciated in accordance with the tax effect is recognised directly in equity.
Groups policy and the cost is included within Research and development in the income statement.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or r Leases substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are method, providing for temporary differences between the classified as operating leases.
carrying value of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation Assets held under finance leases are initially recognised purposes.
The following temporary differences are not within property, plant and equipment of the Group at provided for: where the deferred tax liability arises from their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or minimum lease payments, each determined at the liability in a transaction that is not a business inception of the lease.
The corresponding liability to the combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects lessor is included in the balance sheet as a finance lease neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss: obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between and taxable temporary differences associated with finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so investments in subsidiaries and associates, where it is as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining probable that the temporary differences will not reverse balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged in the foreseeable future.
Such assets are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the length of the lease.
Assets purchased under hire expected manner of realisation or settlement of the purchase agreements are accounted for similarly, except carrying value of assets and liabilities, using tax rates that these assets are depreciated over their estimated enacted or substantively enacted at the balance useful lives.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that income statement on a straight-line basis over the term it is probable that future taxable profits will be available of the relevant lease within the appropriate functional against which the asset can be utilised.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 122 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued the discount rate used to determine the present value of 2.
Significant accounting policies forecast future cash flows.
Further details regarding the continued estimates and assumptions used in determining the v BTG Employee Share Trust recoverable amount of cash generating units to which Included within the Groups financial results are the goodwill has been allocated are included in note 10 to financial statements of the BTG Employee Share Trust, the financial statements.
the costs of which are expensed within the financial The recoverability of all other indefinite lived intangible statements of the Trust as incurred.
assets IPR&D and those definite lived intangible assets In the consolidated financial statements, the cost of BTG for which management has determined may not be plc ordinary shares held by the Trust is treated as a recoverable has been assessed.
The recoverable amount deduction from shareholders funds.
of IPR&D and other intangible assets is assessed based on the value-in-use of the relevant intangible asset.
Determining value in use requires the application of w Financial guarantees significant judgement, particularly in estimating risk Where the Company enters into financial guarantee adjusted forecast future cash flows covering the contracts to guarantee the indebtedness of other estimated useful life of the relevant asset, and the companies within its Group, the Company considers discount rate used to determine the present value of these to be insurance arrangements, and accounts for forecast future cash flows.
Further details of the them as such.
In this respect, the Company treats the estimates and assumptions used in determining the guarantee contracts as a contingent liability until such recoverable amounts of the Groups intangible assets are time as it becomes probable that the Company will be included in note 11 to the financial statements.
required to make a payment under the guarantee.
The estimates and assumptions on which fair value less 3.
Critical accounting judgements and costs to sell and value-in-use are based are inherently judgemental.
Future events could therefore lead to key sources of estimation uncertainty changes in assumptions used in these recoverability In preparing the financial statements, management is assessments.
It is therefore possible a change in any required to make estimates and assumptions that affect such assumption could lead to future impairment the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and charges, which if recognised, could significantly impact disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.
As these the Groups financial results.
estimates involve judgement, actual amounts and results could differ from those estimates.
The following are considered to be the Groups critical accounting ii Contingent consideration liabilities judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty: The fair value of the Groups contingent liabilities as of 31 March 2017 was 32.1m 2016: 27.2m.
i Recoverability of goodwill and other Contingent consideration liabilities represent the fair intangible assets value of those future milestones, included in deferred The Group has significant goodwill and intangible payment arrangements from historical business assets resulting from historical business combinations.
combinations, which the Company may be required to As at 31 March 2017, goodwill was 225.6m 2016: pay if certain development, regulatory or sales milestone 187.9m and other intangible assets was 678.9m events occur.
The determination of the fair value of 2016: 599.2m.
contingent consideration liabilities requires the application of significant judgement, including the Goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and is probability of the relevant event triggering the milestone tested annually for impairment or whenever events or occurring, the estimated timing of such relevant events changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value and the discount rate used to determine the present of goodwill may not be recoverable.
The recoverable value of the risk adjusted milestone payments.
amount of the Groups goodwill is assessed based on the fair value less costs to sell of the relevant group of cash The Groups principal contingent consideration generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
liabilities relate to the acquisitions of PneumRx Inc in Determining fair value less costs to sell requires the 2015 and Galil Medical in 2016, see note 21 for further application of significant judgement, particularly in the details.
The estimates and assumptions used in estimation of forecast future cash flows and the terminal determining the fair value of these contingent growth rate for each relevant cash generating unit, and consideration liabilities are inherently judgemental.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 123 123 The estimates and assumptions used to determine the Future events could lead to changes in assumptions fair value of acquired intangible assets are inherently used to determine the fair value of contingent uncertain, and the adoption of different assumptions consideration liabilities.
It is therefore possible that a and estimates could result in the assignment of a change in any such assumption could lead to a material different fair value for acquired intangible assets than fair value charge or credit, which if recognised could has been recognised by the Group.
significantly impact the Groups financial results.
Operating segments At March 31, 2017, the Groups deferred tax assets Operating segments are reported based on the financial amounted to 5.3m 2016: 6.8m and the Groups net information provided to the Groups chief operating deferred tax liabilities amounted to 157.2m 2016: decision-making body, being the Leadership team.
The Group is aligned behind three reportable segments, being Interventional Medicine, Specialty Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it Pharmaceuticals and Licensing.
is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised, In assessing performance and making resource based on managements assumptions relating both allocation decisions, the Leadership Team reviews to the amount and timing of future taxable profits.
Contribution is defined as In recognising deferred tax assets, management has being gross profit less directly attributable selling, taken into account expected changes in tax rates in general and administrative costs SG&A.
The Licensing each relevant jurisdiction.
operating segment includes SG&A relating to the Groups centrally managed support functions and Inherent uncertainties exist as management is required corporate overheads.
The Groups reportable segments to exercise judgement in determining whether it is more reflects the management structure and stewardship of likely than not that it would realise these deferred tax the business.
No allocation of central overheads is made assets.
Where deferred tax assets are recognised across the Specialty Pharmaceuticals or Interventional following an acquisition, management has to exercise Medicine operating segments.
Research and judgement to assess the validity of acquired tax losses development continues to be managed on a global and the impact of change of control provisions.
If actual basis, with investment decisions being made by the events differ from managements estimates, or to the Leadership Team as a whole.
Research and extent that estimates of future taxable profits are development is not managed by reference to the Groups adjusted in the future, it is therefore possible that any operating segments, though each programme within the such change in assumption could lead to a material pipeline would ultimately provide revenues for one of the charge or credit, which if recognised could significantly operating segments if successful.
impact the Groups financial results.
iv Business combinations In conjunction with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the Group has recognised intangible assets in respect of acquired developed technology and in-process research and development IPR&D.
Significant judgement is required in determining the unit of account at which separate intangible assets should be recognised, and the fair values of the identifiable intangible assets as of the acquisition date.
Determining the market participant fair value of acquired intangible assets requires the application of significant judgement, including estimates of risk adjusted forecast future cash flows, the probability of regulatory approval for IPR&D assets, determination of market participant or buyer specific synergies, the relevant discount rate to determine the present value of forecast future cash flows and the tax amortisation benefit related to the individual intangible asset.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 124 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Operating segments continued There are no inter-segment transactions that are required to be eliminated on consolidation.
Year ended 31 March 2017 Interventional Specialty Medicine Pharmaceuticals Licensing Total m m m m Revenue 216.2 171.1 183.2 570.5 1 Cost of sales 61.9 16.7 101.3 179.9 Gross profit 154.3 154.4 81.9 390.6 2 Selling, general and administrative expenses 119.5 33.3 53.8 206.6 Contribution 34.8 121.1 28.1 184.0 Research and development 87.8 Other operating income 4.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 42.0 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 1.1 Operating profit 57.5 Financial income 3.3 Financial expense 29.2 Profit before tax 31.6 Tax credit 2.0 Profit for the year 33.6 3 Total Assets 1,311.1 1.
2017 cost of sales in the Interventional Medicine segment includes a 1.0m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory and PP&E acquired with Galil Medical in June 2016.
The release represents the reversal of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold and incremental depreciation related to acquired PP&E.
2017 selling, general and administrative expenses within Licensing includes a charge of 28.0m relating to the Groups settlement with the US government in relation to the Department of Justice investigation into the historic marketing of LC Bead.
The Group does not allocate assets to operating segments with the exception of Goodwill disclosed in note 10.
Year ended 31 March 2016 Interventional Specialty Medicine Pharmaceuticals Licensing Total m m m m Revenue 150.2 133.1 164.2 447.5 1 Cost of sales 43.8 15.1 81.9 140.8 Gross profit 106.4 118.0 82.3 306.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 96.2 25.5 19.7 141.4 Contribution 10.2 92.5 62.6 165.3 Research and development 77.2 Other operating income 3.4 Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 35.0 Acquisition and reorganisation costs Operating profit 56.5 Financial income 4.4 Financial expense 3.4 Profit before tax 57.5 Tax credit 3.0 Profit for the year 60.5 2 Total Assets 1,148.8 1.
2016 cost of sales in the Interventional Medicine segment includes a 1.5m release of a fair value adjustment to inventory acquired with PneumRx, Inc. on 7 January 2015.
This release represents the reversal of a fair value uplift applied to inventory purchased on acquisition recognised through the income statement as the product is sold.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 125 125 Revenue analysis Analysis of revenue, based on the geographical location of customers and the source of revenue is provided below: Geographical analysis Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m USA 513.7 393.1 Europe 41.1 42.3 Other regions 15.7 12.1 570.5 447.5 Revenue from major products and services Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Product sales 387.3 283.3 Royalties 183.2 164.2 570.5 447.5 Major customers The Groups products are sold both directly and through distribution agreements in the USA, Europe and Asia Pacific region.
No individual customer generated income in excess of 10% of the Group revenue during the year ended 31 March 2017 or 31 March 2016.
Products that utilise the Groups intellectual property rights are sold by licensees.
Royalty income is derived from over 40 licences.
One licence individually generated royalty income in excess of 10% of Group revenue of 123.2m 2016: 118.9m.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 126 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 5.
Operating profit Operating profit has been arrived at after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 12 6.6 6.6 Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 11 46.7 38.0 Net foreign exchange gains 4.3 4.4 Research and development 87.8 77.2 Expense relating to settlement of DOJ investigation 28.0 Staff costs 6 164.0 116.2 Operating lease rentals payable on property 3.0 2.5 Acquisition and reorganisation costs 1.1 Expense relating to the settlement of DOJ investigation In October 2016, BTG announced its Biocompatibles, Inc. subsidiary reached a settlement with the US government in relation to the Department of Justices investigation of the historic marketing of LC Bead.
The investigation focused on the period pre-dating BTGs acquisition of Biocompatibles in January 2011.
Biocompatibles agreed to settle all allegations and consequently paid a total penalty of US$36m.
BTG was not required to enter into a Corporate Integrity Agreement as part of the settlement.
In the year to 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a charge of 28.0m relating to this settlement within Selling, general & administrative expenses.
Auditors remuneration The analysis of the auditors remuneration is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 000 000 Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Group and Companys annual accounts: 200 168 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates for other services: Audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 345 290 Audit of pension scheme trust 11 11 Other audit related assurance services 60 54 Taxation compliance services 424 370 For information on how auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded when non-audit services are provided by the auditor, see the Audit Committee Report on pages 57 to 65.
Staff costs Staff costs including directors emoluments and reorganisation costs are as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Salaries 135.5 94.0 Social security costs 12.9 10.4 Defined contribution pension costs 6.7 5.0 Defined benefit pension costs 0.4 0.1 Equity-settled transactions 8.5 6.7 164.0 116.2 Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 97.
In addition to the disclosures in the Remuneration Report, the charge to income in respect of equity-settled transactions of key management personnel, in accordance with IFRS 2, was 2.6m 2016: 2.6m.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 127 127 The average number of persons employed by the Group during the year including executive directors, analysed by category, was as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Number Number Management 99 99 Research and production 703 673 Sales, administration and business support 553 410 1,355 1,182 7.
Financial income and expense Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Interest receivable on money-market and bank deposits 0.3 0.2 Fair value movements from foreign exchange forward contracts 1.2 Fair value movements on contingent consideration liabilities 3.0 3.0 Financial income 3.3 4.4 Fair value movements and realised losses from foreign exchange forward contracts 25.2 Fair value movements on contingent consideration liabilities 2.3 1.7 Other financial expense 1.7 1.7 Financial expense 29.2 3.4 In the year to 31 March 2017, the Group recognised a fair value credit of 3.0m related to the contingent consideration from the PneumRx acquisition and a fair value charge of 2.3m related to the contingent consideration from the Galil Medical acquisition.
In the year to 31 March 2016, fair value changes on contingent consideration related to the PneumRx acquisition was a net credit of 3.0m, being a 12.0m credit relating to the non-payment of the first revenue milestone and a 9.0m charge relating to the US regulatory milestone, and a 1.6m charge related to the contingent consideration milestones for the EKOS acquisition.
Further information on the current fair value of the US regulatory milestone relating to the acquisition of PneumRx, and potential future changes to this fair value, is included in Note 21 to these financial statements.
The change in fair value and realised losses on the Groups forward foreign exchange contracts of 25.2m for the year to 31 March 2017 are now both recorded within financial expense.
The loss of 25.2m included realised losses of 17.1m on settlement of forward contracts and unrealised losses of 8.1m on remeasurement of the Groups outstanding forward contracts to their fair value.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Company recorded unrealised gains of 1.2m on the remeasurement of outstanding forward contracts to their fair value in Financial income, and included realised foreign exchange gains of 1.4m on settlement of forward contracts in Other operating income above operating profit.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 128 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Tax An analysis of the tax credit in the income statement for the year, all relating to current operations, is as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Current tax UK corporation tax charge Overseas corporate tax charge 11.8 11.7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 2.2 Total current taxation 10.1 9.5 Deferred taxation Deferred tax credit 13.0 13.8 Adjustment to tax rates 0.9 1.3 Total deferred taxation 12.1 12.5 Total tax credit for the year 2.0 3.0 In addition to the tax credit in the income statement, a deferred tax credit of 4.1m 2016: 1.1m charge has been recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income relating to the deferred tax on the pension fund surplus.
UK corporation tax is calculated at 20% 2016: 20% of the estimated taxable profit for the year.
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions.
Reconciliation of the effective tax rate: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax 31.6 57.5 Tax using UK corporation tax rate of 20% 2016: 20% 6.3 11.5 Effect of overseas tax rates 1.4 4.2 1 Recognition of tax losses 6.7 15.2 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 1.2 0.4 2 Non-deductible expenses 4.5 Effect of UK patent box deduction 5.5 4.4 Intra-group transfer of subsidiary undertaking 2.4 Adjustment to tax rates 0.9 1.3 3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.7 2.4 2.0 3.0 1.
The recognition of historic UK and US tax losses arises from sustained profitability of the related underlying business.
The non-deductible expenses arises primarily from the settlement of US litigation.
The prior year adjustment arises mainly from a reassessment of prior year US tax liabilities.
An analysis of amounts included in the Consolidated statement of financial position in respect of income taxes is shown below: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Current assets UK corporation tax receivable 2.6 1.8 Overseas corporation tax receivable 0.1 2.7 1.8 Current liabilities Overseas corporate tax payable 5.1 5.8 5.1 5.8 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 129 129 Deferred taxation The movements in the deferred tax asset and liabilities prior to the offsetting of balances within the same jurisdiction as permitted by IAS 12, Income Taxes during the year are as shown below.
The deferred tax asset and liabilities are only offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset and there is an intention to settle the balance net.
Deferred tax asset Short term timing Net deferred Tax losses difference tax asset m m m At 1 April 2015 4.8 0.1 4.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years Income statement credit charge 1.3 0.1 1.4 Reclassification 0.5 0.5 At 31 March 2016 6.1 0.7 6.8 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 0.1 0.2 Income statement credit charge 3.4 1.9 1.5 Rate change 0.1 0.1 Foreign exchange differences 0.1 0.1 At 31 March 2017 2.8 2.5 5.3 The deferred tax asset relates to short term timing differences in Australia and the UK and tax losses in the UK.
The deferred tax asset has been recognised because the directors are of the opinion, based on recent and forecast trading, that the level of profits in Australia and the UK in forthcoming years will lead to the realisation of these assets.
Deferred tax liability Liabilities Assets Liabilities Liabilities Short term Short term Acquired Pension fund timing Assets timing Net deferred intangibles surplus differences Tax losses differences tax liability m m m m m m At 1 April 2015 186.2 4.6 0.5 31.1 7.8 152.4 Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.1 1.0 0.1 1.2 Income statement credit charge 11.2 1.0 0.6 1.9 1.1 10.0 Other comprehensive income charge 1.1 1.1 R&D tax credits 0.2 0.2 Reclassification 0.4 0.4 Foreign exchange differences 5.3 0.5 0.3 4.5 At 31 March 2016 180.2 6.7 0.1 30.7 9.1 147.0 Acquisition 17.0 10.9 6.1 Income statement credit charge 12.9 0.7 0.1 2.6 4.8 14.3 Other comprehensive income credit 4.1 4.1 R&D tax credits 0.1 0.1 Rate change 0.8 0.8 Foreign exchange differences 27.3 4.3 1.2 21.8 At 31 March 2017 211.6 3.3 42.5 15.2 157.2 The deferred tax liability of 157.2m 2016: 147.0m represents the net position after taking into account the offset of deferred tax assets against deferred tax liabilities in each jurisdiction.
This amount has been calculated based on the substantively enacted tax rates at which the timing differences are expected to unwind.
The UK tax rate will fall from 20% to 19% on 1 April 2017 and to 17% on 1 April 2020.
This has been reflected in the deferred tax assets and liabilities and deferred tax has been recognised at the rate at which timing differences and tax losses are expected to unwind or be used.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 130 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 8.
Tax continued Unrecognised tax losses In addition to the losses on which a deferred tax asset has been recognised, the Group has additional tax losses and other timing differences which have arisen principally as a result of the research and development incurred during the start up of the Groups activities.
These losses and timing differences are shown below.
UK tax losses can be carried forward indefinitely.
The US tax losses can be carried forward for 20 years and the first year in which they expire is 2019.
A deferred tax asset has not been recognised in respect of the losses and timing differences shown below as there is uncertainty as to whether such losses and timing differences will be used.
The total amount of tax losses and timing differences not recognised is shown below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m UK tax losses 50.1 59.4 US tax losses 23.1 22.4 Other Regions tax losses 23.6 Deductible temporary differences 31.0 27.0 127.8 108.8 9.
Earnings per share The calculation of the basic and diluted earnings per share is based on the following data: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Profit for the year m 33.6 60.5 Profit per share p Basic 8.7 15.8 Diluted 8.6 15.6 Number of shares m Weighted average number of shares basic 384.4 382.6 Effect of share options on issue 5.6 5.7 Weighted average number of shares diluted 390.0 388.3 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 131 131 10.
Goodwill Note m At 1 April 2015 183.8 Foreign exchange differences 4.1 At 31 March 2016 187.9 Acquisitions 26 16.4 Foreign exchange differences 21.3 At 31 March 2017 225.6 Accumulated impairment losses At 1 April 2015, 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017 Net book value at 31 March 2017 225.6 Net book value at 31 March 2016 187.9 Net book value at 1 April 2015 183.8 Goodwill has been allocated to groups of cash generating units, being the Groups operating segments see note 4 in proportion to the anticipated benefits of goodwill on the relevant operating segment, having regard for the assets and liabilities acquired.
The carrying value of goodwill has been allocated to Interventional Medicine 189.1m 2016: 151.4m, to Specialty Pharmaceuticals 16.4m 2016: 16.4m, and to Licensing 20.1m 2016: 20.1m.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the recoverable amounts of these cash generating units has been determined using a fair value less costs to sell approach.
Fair value less costs to sell is calculated using a discounted cash flow approach, with a post-tax discount rate applied to forecast future cash flows and terminal values.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group utilised a value-in-use approach to determine the recoverable amounts of its cash generating units.
Key assumptions used to estimate fair value less costs to sell relate to sales growth rates, anticipated profit margins, estimated tax rates, terminal growth rates and discount rates.
Sales growth rates are derived from internal forecasts based on both internal and external market information, whilst anticipated profit margins reflect past experience, adjusted for expected future changes.
Projected cash flows cover a five year period, and terminal growth rates have been applied to determine the terminal value of each group of cash generating units.
These terminal growth rates, based on managements estimate of future long-term average growth rates, are 2.75% for Interventional Medicine, 0.5% for Specialty Pharmaceuticals and 0% for Licensing.
The discount rate of 9% is based on an estimate of the Groups WACC.
The valuation methodology uses significant inputs which are not based on observable market data, therefore this valuation technique is classified as level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
In each case the valuation of each cash generating unit indicated sufficient headroom such that a reasonably possible change to key assumptions is currently unlikely to result in an impairment to the related goodwill.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 132 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 11.
All other intangible asset amortisation is recorded within Cost of sales, Selling, general and administrative expenses or Research and development.
Developed technology Developed technology represents intangible assets for products acquired through business combinations.
The carrying value of individually significant cash generating units CGUs which contain developed technology is: Remaining amortisation 31 March 31 March period at 2017 2016 31 March m m 2017 PneumRx Coil ROW 111.8 104.9 12.8 years EkoSonic 111.4 105.5 11.3 years TheraSphere 95.1 90.1 11.3 years CroFab 71.6 66.0 16.7 years DC Bead and LC Bead 62.8 69.9 8.8 years Galil Medical 50.4 14.3 years DigiFab 23.1 21.3 16.7 years B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 133 133 In-process research and development 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m PneumRx Coil US 96.8 84.2 Targeted Therapies Assets 21.2 18.4 Purchase of contractual rights The carrying value of individually significant CGUs with purchase of contractual rights, which include Varithena, are outlined below.
31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Varithena 18.8 21.0 Developed technology assets are tested for impairment when indicators of impairment arise, whilst in-process research and development assets are tested for impairment at least annually.
The Group applies a value in use approach to determine the recoverable amount of its developed technology and IPR&D intangible assets.
The determination of value in use utilises risk-adjusted cash flow forecasts over the useful economic lives of the relevant assets, with the present value of these forecasts calculated by use of a discount rate of 9% based on an estimate of the Groups post-tax WACC.
Key assumptions used to estimate value in use relate to sales growth rates, anticipated profit margins, estimated tax rates and discount rates.
These forecasts are inherently judgemental and are based on outputs from the Groups planning cycle, with assumptions based on past experience and future expectations.
The recoverability of intangible assets for marketed products Developed Technology and purchased contractual rights is potentially at risk if pricing, reimbursement and or market penetration are at lower levels than the Groups current assumptions.
The recoverability of the Groups Vistogard intangible asset 2017: 6.4m is at risk in the event of an unfavourable outcome to the ongoing litigation with Wellstat see Note 20 for further details.
Additionally, IPR&D assets carry inherent development and regulatory risks, such that these assets are particularly at risk of impairment in full if the relevant development programmes do not obtain the requisite regulatory approval or reach commercialisation, and there is no alternative use for these assets.
Given their nature, impairment charges which may be triggered by future events that have yet to occur could significantly impact the Groups financial results.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 134 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Inventories Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Raw materials and consumables 23.5 16.4 Work in progress 20.6 14.7 Finished goods 14.3 15.4 58.4 46.5 Inventory to the value of 1.8m 2016: 3.4m was written off through Cost of sales during the period.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 135 135 14.
Trade and other receivables Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Due within one year Trade receivables, net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts 61.1 41.9 Other receivables 13.5 12.1 Prepayments and accrued income 51.1 52.5 125.7 106.5 Trade receivables, net of provisions for bad and doubtful debts represents product sales sold both directly and through distribution agreements and royalty receivables under licence agreements.
The ageing of these amounts was as follows: 2017 2017 2016 2016 Gross Provision Gross Provision m m m m Not past due 49.2 35.0 0-30 days 7.5 4.4 31-90 days 2.5 1.5 90 days 2.2 0.3 1.7 0.7 Total 61.4 0.3 42.6 0.7 Provisions for bad and doubtful debts of 0.3m 2016: 0.7m write downs the value of receivables to their estimated recoverable amounts.
The charge for the year to 31 March 2017 in respect of provisions for bad and doubtful debts was 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
Equity The issued and fully paid share capital of the Company is shown below: 2017 2016 Ordinary shares of 10p each Number m Number m At 1 April 382,991,577 38.3 381,776,703 38.2 Issued for cash 2,135,948 0.2 1,214,874 0.1 At 31 March 385,127,525 38.5 382,991,577 38.3 The shares issued during the year ended 31 March 2017 were as a result of the exercise of share options.
Other reserves are analysed as follows: Translation Fair value Total other reserve reserve reserves m m m At 31 March 2015 9.3 0.1 9.4 Total recognised income and expense 18.7 18.7 At 31 March 2016 28.0 0.1 28.1 Total recognised income and expense 91.7 91.7 At 31 March 2017 119.7 0.1 119.8 Share options Details of outstanding share options are set out in note 19.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 136 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Trade and other payables 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Note m m Amounts falling due within one year Trade payables 14.2 16.0 Accruals and deferred income 105.1 94.8 Contingent consideration liabilities 21 28.2 Other creditors 4.5 4.0 Provisions 0.5 1.4 152.5 116.2 Amounts falling due after more than one year Accruals and deferred income 2.0 0.3 Contingent consideration liabilities 21 3.9 27.2 Provisions 2.6 1.6 8.5 29.1 17.
Derivative financial instruments 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Contracts in an asset position: Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year 0.1 2.3 Forward foreign exchange contracts due after more than one year 1.0 Derivative assets 0.1 3.3 Contracts in a liability position: Forward foreign exchange contracts due within one year 7.9 3.0 Derivative liabilities 7.9 3.0 The Group utilises foreign currency derivatives to economically hedge significant future transactions and cash flows.
The Group does not currently utilise hedge accounting for outstanding foreign exchange derivatives.
At 31 March 2017 the Group had forward contracts to sell US$169.6m in the period to March 2018 at a weighted average rate of 1:US$1.33.
The fair value of these derivative financial instruments at 31 March 2017 was a liability at 7.8m 31 March 2016: 0.3m asset.
The unrealised loss of 8.1m 2016: 1.2m unrealised gain for the year associated with the remeasurement of these forward contracts to their fair value was included within Financial expense 2016: Financial income.
A 5% strengthening of the US$ against sterling as at 31 March 2017 would result in an incremental charge of 6.8m within Financial expense in the income statement and an increase of the derivative liability to 14.6m.
Correspondingly a 5% weakening of the US$ against sterling would result in a 6.8m credit within Financial expense and a reduction of the derivative liability to 1.0m.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 137 137 18.
Retirement benefit schemes Defined benefit scheme For eligible UK employees the Group operates a funded pension plan providing benefits based on final pensionable emoluments.
The plan was closed to new entrants as of 1 June 2004.
The plan is a registered scheme under the provisions of Schedule 36 of the Finance Act 2004 and the assets are held in a legally separate, trustee-administered fund.
The trustees are required by law to act in the best interest of the plan participants and are responsible for setting the plans investment and governance policies.
The results of the formal valuation of the plan as at 31 March 2016 were updated to the accounting date by an independent qualified actuary in accordance with IAS19.
The plan exposes the Group to inflation risk, interest rate risk, market investment risk and longevity risk.
The Group is not exposed to any unusual, entity specific or plan specific risks.
The plan has a history of granting increases to pensions in line with price inflation, and these increases are reflected in the measurement of the obligation.
In July 2010, the government announced its intention that future statutory minimum pension indexation would be measured by the Consumer Prices Index, rather than the Retail Prices Index RPI.
The Group continues to value its pension fund liability on the basis of RPI.
The estimated amount of total employer contributions expected to be paid to the plan during 2017 18 is 2.8m 2016 17 actual: 2.9m.
The IAS19 position of the plan is generally expected to be different to the triennial funding valuation assessment.
The two main drivers of this difference are the requirement for prudence in the funding basis compared to the IAS19 best-estimate principle, and the IAS19 requirements to use a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds compared to a prudent expectation of actual asset returns for funding.
This can sometimes lead to a situation where the IAS19 measure shows a surplus while the funding measure shows a deficit, with associated deficit recovery contributions payable by the Group.
The Group has taken professional advice and concluded that it has no requirement to adjust the balance sheet in respect of either a current surplus or a minimum funding requirement under IFRIC14.
This is on the basis that the Group has an unconditional right to a refund of a current or projected future surplus at some point in the future.
The following table sets out the key IAS 19 assumptions used for the plan: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2015 Retail price inflation 3.4% p. a.
Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 60 at the accounting date 89.0 88.7 88.5 Life expectancy at age 60 of a male age 40 at the accounting date 91.8 91.1 91.0 Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set based on actuarial advice and in accordance with published statistics.
The mortality tables used for 2017 year-end accounting were updated as a result of the most recent actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2016.
The mortality tables used at year-end 2017 were the S2NA tables based on year of birth, with a multiplicative adjustment factor to reflect the Groups assessment of the average current mortality rates of the plan members relative to the tables.
Amongst the UK population, there is a continuing trend for a generation to live longer than the preceding generation, and this has been reflected in the longevity assumption by adopting CMI core projections and also incorporating a minimum long-term rate of improvement in longevity of 1.75% 1.5% for males and females respectively.
In comparison, the mortality tables used at year-end 2016 were the S1NA tables based on year of birth, with a minimum long-term rate of improvement in longevity of 1.5% 1.25% pa for males and females respectively.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 138 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 18.
Retirement benefit schemes continued The following table sets out related IAS 19 assumptions used: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2015 Pension increases in deferment RPI inflation 3.4% p. a.
Pension increases in payment RPI inflation 3.4% p. a.
Pension increases in payment inflation capped at 2.5% 2.1% p. a.
The amount included in the statement of financial position arising from the Groups obligations in respect of the plan is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2015 m m m Present value of defined benefit obligation 142.1 119.0 124.9 Fair value of scheme assets 159.3 138.3 138.1 Net asset recognised in the statement of financial position 17.2 19.3 13.2 A net asset is presented in the statement of financial position within non-current assets.
The IAS 19 expense is made up of the current service cost, plan administrative expenses, interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on plan assets, all of which are shown in the change in defined benefit obligation and assets tables below.
The expense has been included in Selling, general and administrative expenses.
The allocation of the plans assets is as follows: 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2015 Equity instruments 4% 10% 10% Diversified growth funds 6% 9% 11% Liability driven investment 23% 31% 29% Absolute return bonds 8% 19% 20% Illiquid inflation assets 16% 16% 15% Inflation linked bonds 0% 0% 0% Corporate bonds 0% 0% 0% Cash net current assets 43% 15% 15% There are no direct investments in the Groups own shares or property occupied by any member of the Group.
At 31 March 2017, all asset classes are traded in active markets, with the exception of the illiquid inflation assets which are priced and traded on a monthly basis.
In setting the investment strategy the trustees considered the views of the Group, their assessment of the Groups covenant supporting the actuarial risks faced by the plan, the risks and rewards of a number of possible asset allocation options, the suitability of a wide range of asset classes within each strategy across and within asset classes, and the need for appropriate diversification amongst different asset classes.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 139 139 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset liability over the year ended 31 March 2017 are as follows: Net asset Obligation Plan assets liability Year ended 31 March 2017 m m m Beginning of the year 119.0 138.3 19.3 Employers part of the current service cost 0.4 0.4 Interest income cost 4.0 4.7 0.7 Administrative costs Contributions by the employer 2.8 2.8 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain experience 0.2 18.5 18.7 Actuarial loss financial assumptions 24.5 24.5 Actuarial gain demographic assumptions 0.6 0.6 Benefits paid 5.1 5.1 End of the Year 142.1 159.3 17.2 Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation, the fair value of the plan assets and the net asset liability over the year ended 31 March 2016 are as follows: Net asset Obligation Plan assets liability Year ended 31 March 2016 m m m Beginning of the year 124.9 138.1 13.2 Employers part of the current service cost 0.5 0.5 Interest income cost 4.0 4.4 0.4 Administrative costs Contributions by the employer 2.9 2.9 Contributions from plan members 0.1 0.1 Actuarial loss gain experience 1.2 2.2 1.0 Actuarial gain financial assumptions 5.0 5.0 Actuarial loss demographic assumptions 0.7 0.7 Benefits paid 5.0 5.0 End of the Year 119.0 138.3 19.3 The actual return on the plans assets over the year to 31 March 2017 was a gain of 23.2m 2016: gain of 2.2m.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is around 16 years 2016: 15 years.
The administrative costs shown above are nil as they are paid directly by the Group and are expensed separately outside IAS19.
The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the plan obligations are: Increase in Obligation Increase in Plan Assets Increase in Net Liability 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March Change in 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 assumption m m m m m m Discount rate Decrease 0.1% 2.4 1.7 2.4 2.2 0.5 RPI inflation Increase 0.1% 2.1 1.5 2.0 1.9 0.1 0.4 Life expectancy Increase 1 year 4.7 3.9 4.7 3.9 The sensitivity information has been derived using projected cash flows valued using the relevant assumptions and membership profile as at 31 March 2017.
The sensitivity methodology has not changed from prior years.
Extrapolation of these results beyond the sensitivity figures shown may not be appropriate.
Defined contribution schemes The Group offers defined contribution pension schemes for its employees.
The total income statement charge in relation to these schemes was 6.7m 2016: 5.0m.
The Groups defined contribution schemes are operated by external providers.
The only obligation of the Group with respect to these schemes is to make the specified contributions.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 140 140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Share based payments Share options The Group makes awards under an equity-settled share option plan that entitles employees to purchase shares in the Company.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, options are granted at the market price of the shares on the date of grant with a vesting period of generally three years.
They may only be exercised upon the attainment of service, market and non-market criteria.
If the performance criteria are not met by the date specified at the time of grant, the options do not vest and will lapse.
If the options remain unexercised after a period of ten years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Furthermore, options are forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver.
In this case their options remain exercisable for a limited period of time.
For further details of current awards, see the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 97.
Option pricing For the purposes of valuing options to arrive at the share-based compensation charge, a Black-Scholes option pricing model has been used.
The assumptions used in the model are as follows: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Risk-free interest rate 0.1% 0.4% 0.7% 1.4% Dividend yield Nil Nil Volatility 28% 30% 26% 28% Expected lives of options and awards granted under: Share option plan 3 years 3 years Sharesave plan 3.37 years 3.44 years Stock purchase plan 2.12 years 2.13 years Performance share plan 3-5 years 3-5 years Deferred share bonus plan 3 years 3 years Weighted average fair value for share option plan grants in the year 296.6p 353.2p Weighted average fair value for Sharesave grants in the year 215.0p 222.6p Weighted average fair value for stock purchase plan grants in the year 160.6p 158.4p Weighted average fair value for performance share awards in the year 550.6p 469.6p Weighted average fair value for deferred share bonus awards in the year 673.5p 681.5p The expected volatility is based on the historic volatility calculated based on the weighted average remaining life of the share options, restricted or performance shares, adjusted for any expected changes to future volatility due to publiclyavailable information.
Share options are granted under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Service and non-market conditions are not taken into account in calculating the fair value measurement of the services received.
Performance shares are awarded under a service condition, a non-market condition and a market condition.
Awards of share options and performance share awards made in 2009 and later years have a market condition based on a Total Shareholder Return TSR measure using the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel & leisure, and leisure goods.
Earlier share options and performance shares used the FTSE SmallCap excluding Investment Trusts index.
If the Companys TSR at least matches the performance of the relevant index over the vesting period, the market-based performance condition will be considered to have been achieved.
The fair value of an award of shares under the share option and performance share plans have been adjusted to take into account this market-based performance condition using a pricing model based on expectations about volatility and the correlation of TSR in the relevant index and which incorporates into the valuation the interdependency between TSR and index performance.
This adjustment increases the fair value relative to the share price at the date of grant.
See the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 97 for further information.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 141 141 Details of options and awards under the Groups share plans are shown in the tables below.
Share based payments continued Performance share awards Following approval of the Performance Share Plan by shareholders at the 2006 AGM, the Company has made awards to the executive directors and other employees with a vesting period of three years.
In 2013, amendments to the rules of the Plan and the terms of new performance conditions were approved at the AGM.
These included the opportunity for Executive Directors only to voluntarily elect to carry-forward and put at risk for a further two years shares that would have vested under the core award after three years into a multiplier award.
A Senior Management Performance Share Plan was approved by the Board in 2012 in order to award shares to certain senior employees below board level.
The shares will vest on the second anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of performance share awards is as follows: 2017 2016 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Performance share awards Outstanding at 1 April 5,639 5,146 Granted during year 1,560 1,711 Lapsed during year 502 307 Exercised during year 1,937 911 Outstanding at 31 March 4,760 5,639 Exercisable at 31 March Senior Management Performance Share Plan Outstanding at 1 April 112 Granted during year 51 112 Lapsed during year Exercised during year Outstanding at 31 March 163 112 Exercisable at 31 March Deferred share bonus plan The Company established a deferred share bonus plan.
The executive directors, members of the leadership team and certain other senior staff have part of their bonus awarded in shares.
The shares will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Movement in the number of deferred bonus shares awarded is as follows: 2017 2016 Number of Number of share awards share awards 000 000 Outstanding at 1 April 259 436 Granted during year 37 48 Lapsed during year 7 Exercised during year 172 218 Outstanding at 31 March 124 259 Exercisable at 31 March For the performance share awards and the deferred share bonus plan awards are forfeited if the director or other employee leaves the Group before the awards vest, unless the conditions under which they leave are such that they are considered to be a good leaver: in which case their award is released following their departure.
If the Remuneration Committee decide that a departing beneficiary of an award is a good leaver, so their award may be released early, the award will only be released subject to the achievement of the performance conditions set out at the time of the granting of the award and may be subject to proration for time, at the discretion of the Committee.
For further details see the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 97.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 143 143 20.
Contingent liabilities BTG is in a current dispute with Wellstat over the commercialisation of Vistogard.
Wellstat are seeking damages and to terminate the commercialisation agreement under which BTG obtained rights to sell Vistogard in US.
A trial has been heard in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware but no judgement has yet been issued.
The Group estimate the likelihood of material financial loss or loss of rights to the asset to be possible, not probable, and therefore no liability has been recognised.
It is currently not possible to make a reliable estimate of any amount that may be required to be paid in respect of the dispute.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Overview The Group has exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks from its use of financial instruments.
This note sets out the Groups key policies and processes for managing these risks.
Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a licensee fails to meet its contractual obligations or a customer fails to pay for goods received.
The Groups primary objective with respect to credit risk is to minimise the risk of default by licensees or customers.
A substantial element of the Groups revenue is derived from royalties which are only payable if a licensee is generating income from sales of licensed products.
In such instances the Groups exposure to credit risk is considered to be inherently relatively low, although is influenced by the unique characteristics of individual licensees.
The Groups policy is to provide against bad and doubtful debts on a specific licence by licence basis.
Product revenues are generated from direct sales as well as sales to several key wholesalers and distributors.
Management maintains regular communication with the customers and monitors both sales to and payments from customers to minimise the credit risk exposure.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group has substantial cash balances to fund its operations.
The Group has a 100m multi-currency revolving credit facility RCF with an option to extend this RCF by a further 100m.
The RCF has a three-year term, which expires in November 2018, with an option to extend for a further year.
The 100m revolving credit facility has not been utilised in either the current or prior period.
The Groups policy is to place surplus cash resources on short and medium term fixed interest deposits, to the extent that cash flow can be reasonably predicted.
Term deposits are denominated in either US dollars or sterling with institutions rated as A or higher by both Moodys and Standard & Poors.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 144 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and equity prices will affect the Groups income or the value of its holdings in financial instruments.
The Group has little exposure to interest rate risk other than that returns on short-term fixed interest deposits will vary with movements in underlying bank interest rates.
The Groups principal market risk exposure is to movements in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign currency risk The Groups principal foreign currency exposure is to USD, as the Group has significant USD denominated revenues and operating costs although a significant proportion of the Groups operating costs remain denominated in sterling.
The Group is also exposed, albeit to a lesser extent, to the Euro, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars.
As a result the Groups sterling income statement, balance sheet and cash flows may be affected by movements in sterling exchange rates with these currencies.
The Groups primary objective with respect to managing foreign exchange risk is to provide an appropriate level of certainty over the value of future cash flows.
Where possible, anticipated foreign currency operating expenses are matched to foreign currency revenues.
The Group economically hedges sufficient USD to cover anticipated GBP net operating cash outflows.
Sensitivity analysis A 5% weakening of the US$ would have resulted in the following decrease in profit before tax: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Decrease in profit before tax 4.4 5.4 Interest rate risk The Group does not consider the impact of interest rate risk to be material to its results or operations and accordingly no sensitivity analysis is shown.
Market price risk It is, on occasion, deemed appropriate to take equity stakes in early-stage companies utilising the Groups technology as part of the overall licensing arrangement and small loans may be granted to these companies to further technology development.
These investments will be realised at an appropriate time in the development cycle.
These investments form part of the Groups overall technology portfolio and do not materially affect liquidity.
Capital management The Group defines the capital that it manages as the Groups total equity.
The Groups objectives when managing capital are: To safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern: To provide an adequate return to investors based on the level of risk undertaken: To have available the necessary financial resources to allow the Group to invest in areas that may deliver future benefits for inventive sources and returns to investors: and To maintain sufficient financial resources to mitigate against risks and unforeseen events.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 145 145 The Group believes it has sufficient ongoing cash and cash equivalents to meet its stated capital management objectives.
The Groups capital and equity ratio are shown in the table below.
31 March 31 March 2017 2016 m m Total equity capital and reserves attributable to BTG shareholders 979.9 847.7 Total assets 1,311.1 1,148.8 Equity ratio 74.7% 73.8% The Group is not subject to regulatory capital adequacy requirements as known in the financial services industry.
Financial instruments The Groups financial instruments comprise cash, shortand medium-term deposits, foreign currency forward contracts, contingent consideration liabilities and various items such as trade debtors and creditors which arise directly from operations.
Fair values The fair values of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying values shown in the statement of financial position, are as follows: Forward Total Designated contracts Amortised carrying 1 at fair value at fair value Cost value Fair value m m m m m 31 March 2017 Cash and cash equivalents 155.5 155.5 Forward contracts 7.8 7.8 Other investments 1.7 1.7 1.7 Trade and other receivables 125.7 125.7 Trade and other payables excluding contingent consideration liabilities and provisions 125.8 125.8 Contingent consideration liabilities 32.1 32.1 32.1 31 March 2016 Cash and cash equivalents 140.4 140.4 Forward contracts 0.3 0.3 Other investments 1.4 1.4 1.4 Trade and other receivables 106.5 106.5 Trade and other payables excluding contingent consideration liabilities and provisions 115.1 115.1 Contingent consideration liabilities 27.2 27.2 27.2 1.
The Group has not disclosed the fair values for financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables because their carrying amounts are a reasonable approximation of their fair value.
The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable: Level 1 quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 2 observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities Level 3 unobservable inputs B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 146 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 21.
Financial risk management objectives and policies continued Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total At 31 March 2017 m m m m Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 1.7 1.7 Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 0.1 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward foreign exchange contracts 7.9 7.9 Fair value of contingent consideration liabilities 32.1 32.1 At 31 March 2016 Financial assets recognised at fair value Investments 1.4 1.4 Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.3 3.3 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Forward foreign exchange contracts 3.0 3.0 Fair value of contingent consideration liabilities 27.2 27.2 Level 2 financial assets and liabilities represent forward foreign exchange contracts to sell US$ which are remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date.
Details of the movement of Level 3 fair value financial liabilities are set out below: 2017 2016 Note m m At 1 April 27.2 32.7 Acquisitions 26 1.6 Change in fair value 7 0.7 1.3 Paid during the year 4.8 Foreign exchange differences 4.0 0.6 At 31 March 32.1 27.2 Level 3 financial liabilities predominantly represent contingent consideration liabilities.
The Group is party to certain contingent consideration arrangements arising from business combinations, which include milestones which are potentially payable on the achievement of certain development, regulatory and revenue targets.
The fair values of these contingent consideration liabilities are determined by assessing the probability of expected future payments and discounting these risk adjusted payments to their present value.
PneumRx The PneumRx contingent consideration liability of 28.2m 2016: 27.2m relates to a $60m regulatory milestone which is payable if FDA approval for PneumRx coils is received by 31 December 2017.
The Group recognised a credit of 3.0m relating to the change in the fair value of the PneumRx contingent consideration liability in the year to 31 March 2017.
This milestone is reflected at its current fair value, which reflects the probability of receiving FDA approval and the anticipated timing of any such approval.
Whilst the Group remains confident of FDA approval, the event which would require payment of the milestone, receipt of FDA approval by 31 December 2017, will only be resolved in the 2017 18 year.
If FDA approval is received by 31 December 2017, the Group will record a fair value charge of 19.8m to record the liability at its full value of $60m.
Alternatively, if FDA approval is not received by 31 December 2017 the Group will credit the income statement with 28.2m to release in full this liability.
Any such charge or credit will be reflected in IFRS earnings but not adjusted earnings, in line with the Groups adjusted earnings policy.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 147 147 Galil Medical The Galil contingent consideration liability of 3.9m 2016: nil relates to two regulatory milestones.
The Group recognised a charge of 2.3m relating to the fair value of the Galil contingent consideration liability in the year to 31 March 2017.
The first regulatory milestone of $10m is payable to former shareholders of Galil Medical if FDA approval for lung metastases is received by 31 December 2018.
The second regulatory milestone of $5m is payable to former shareholders of Galil Medical if FDA approval for bone metastases is received by 31 December 2018.
Contractual maturity analysis of financial assets liabilities 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Forward foreign exchange contracts that mature within: m m 0-3 months 3.5 0.9 3-6 months 1.6 1.1 6-12 months 2.7 1.3 12 months 1.0 Total 7.8 0.3 Net gains and losses on financial assets and liabilities Foreign exchange gains of 4.3m 2016: gains of 4.4m were recognised within operating profit.
The Group recognised a loss of 25.2m relating to forward foreign exchange contracts with financial expense in the year to 31 March 2017.
This loss compromises realised FX losses of 17.1m and unrealised losses of 8.1m.
For the year to 31 March 2016, the Group recognised a gain of 1.2m relating to fair value movements on outstanding forward contracts within Financial Income.
See note 7 for further details.
Estimation of fair values The following summarises the methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair values of financial instruments reflected in the table.
Trade receivables, trade payables and cash and cash equivalents Trade payables and receivables have a remaining life of less than one year, such that carrying value is considered to be a reasonable approximation of fair value.
Contingent consideration liabilities Contingent consideration liabilities are re-measured to fair value at each reporting period, to reflect changes in assumptions underlying the fair value of these liabilities, which includes the probability of technical success, any timing risk to achieving the relevant milestones and the appropriate discount rate.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 148 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Operating leases Total non-cancellable operating lease rentals are due in the following periods: 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Property Property m m Within one year 3.8 3.3 Between two and five years 7.2 6.1 Greater than five years 6.1 17.1 9.4 Operating lease payments represent rentals payable for certain of its office properties under non-cancellable operating lease agreements.
The Group leases a number of offices and facilities primarily in the UK, the US, Canada, Germany, Asia-Pacific and Australia.
The leases contain options to extend for further periods.
In the event of renewal, the lease contracts contain market review clauses.
None of the property leases provide the Group with an option to purchase the leased asset at the expiry of the lease period.
Other financial commitments As with any business whose core assets are intellectual property, the Group will from time to time resort to litigation or threats of litigation, or other legal processes, to defend its rights.
Litigation costs are regarded as a cost of doing business and will vary from year to year.
In the current year the Group incurred 0.7m in patent litigation costs 2016: nil.
Related parties Identity of related parties In relation to the related party relationship identified on page 56 concerning Giles Kerr, payments made by BTG to Oxford University and Isis Innovations Ltd under the relevant licence agreements were 19,000 for the year ended 31 March 2017 24,000 for the year ended 31 March 2016.
There are no amounts still outstanding and payable by BTG under these agreements as at 31 March 2017 2016: nil.
Key management personnel are considered to be the directors and their remuneration is disclosed within the Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 97.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 149 149 25.
Group entities The subsidiary undertakings of BTG plc at 31 March 2017 are all wholly owned, incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales, unless shown otherwise.
All subsidiary undertakings operate in their country of incorporation and are consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Registered Office Class of capital Principal activity BTG International 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Investment in IPR management companies Holdings Ltd Provensis Ltd 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Development and commercialisation of IPR BTG International Ltd 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Development, management and commercialisation of IPR BTG Management 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Investment and management of Services Ltd group companies Protherics Medicines 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Development, management and Development Limited commercialisation of IPR BTG International Inc. Five Tower Bridge, 300 Barr Harbor Drive, Suite 800, Common stock Research, development and sale of Delaware, USA West Conshohocken, PA 19428, United States pharmaceutical products Protherics UK Limited Blaenwaun Ffostrasol, Llandysul, Ceredigion, Ordinary Research, development, manufacture and sale Wales SA44 5JT of pharmaceutical products BTG Australasia Pty Turretfield Research Centre, 129 Holland Road, Ordinary Manufacture and sale of pharmaceutical Limited Australia Rosedale SA 5350, Australia products Protherics Utah Inc. 615 Arapeen drive, Suite 105, Salt Lake City, Common stock The research, development, manufacture and Tennessee USA UT 84108, United States sale of pharmaceutical products Biocompatibles Chapman House, Farnham Business Park, Ordinary Investment and management of group International Limited Weydon Lane, Farnham, Surrey GU9 8QL companies Biocompatibles Chapman House, Farnham Business Park, Ordinary Development, management and UK Limited Weydon Lane, Farnham, Surrey GU9 8QL commercialisation of IPR Biocompatibles Inc. Five Tower Bridge, 300 Barr Harbor Drive, Suite 800, Common stock Distribution of Bead products, TheraSphere Delaware USA West Conshohocken, PA 19428, United States and Varithena BTG International Industriestrasse 19,63755, Alzenau, Germany No par value shares Research and development Germany GmbH Germany BTG International 11 Hines Road, Suite 200, Ottawa ON K2K 2X1, Canada Common shares Support of Interventional Canada Inc. Canada Medicine business BTG International Asia Ltd 21st Floor, Edinburgh Tower, the Landmark, Ordinary Sales support for the interventional Hong Kong, China 15 Queens Road Central, Hong Kong medicine business EKOS Corporation 11911 N. Creek Parkway S. Bothell WA 98011, Common stock Manufacture and commercialisation of Delaware USA United States therapeutic ultrasound devices PneumRx Inc. 4255 Burton Drive, Santa Clara, CA 95054, Common stock Development, manufacture and Delaware USA United States commercialisation of the RePneu Coil System PneumRx GmbH Prinzenallee 19, 40549, Dusseldorf, Germany No par value shares Commercialisation and sale of the RePneu Germany Coil System BTG International 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Group financing Healthcare Ltd BTG International Healthcare Five Tower Bridge, 300 Barr Harbor Drive, Suite 800, Common stock Group financing Inc. Delaware USA West Conshohocken, PA 19428, United States BTG International Five Tower Bridge, 300 Barr Harbor Drive, Suite 800, Ordinary Group financing Healthcare LLC West Conshohocken, PA 19428, United States Delaware USA IO2 Limited 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Dormant company BTG IM Holdings Limited Tavor Building 1, Yokneam Illit Industrial Park, PO Box 224, Ordinary Investment in Galil companies Yokneam, 2069203, Israel Galil Medical Inc. 4364 Round Lake Road, Arden Hills MN 55112, Common Stock Manufacture, commercialisation Delaware USA United States and sale of the Galil System Galil Medical Limited Tavor Building 1, Yokneam Illit Industrial Park, Ordinary Manufacture, Commercialisation and sale PO Box 224, Yokneam, 2069203, Israel Series A-1 Preferred of the Galil System Shares Series A-2 Preferred Shares Series B Preferred Shares Galil Medical UK Limited 5 Fleet Place, London EC4M 7RD Ordinary Distribution of the Galil System Indicates direct subsidiary of BTG plc.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 F Financials inancials 150 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26. Business Combinations Acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2017 a Galil acquisition On 15 June 2016 BTG completed the acquisition of 100% of Galil Medical for an aggregate consideration of $84.5m, subject to adjustment for cash and debt assumed at acquisition.
Contingent consideration of up to $25.5m may also be payable in future periods based upon the achievement of regulatory and sales based milestones.
The total equity consideration for the acquisition of Galil Medical was 39.1m $55.1m, representing up-front cash consideration of 37.5m $52.9m and the fair value of contingent consideration of 1.6m $2.2m.
The remainder of the aggregate consideration has been used to settle debt and other obligations assumed on acquisition.
Galil Medicals results of operations have been consolidated from 15 June 2016, and the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities has been determined as of that date.
The final determination of these fair values will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.
In the US, Galil Medicals products are indicated for the treatment and palliative care of kidney and other cancers, in addition to a number of other uses, including in urology.
Galil Medical is also conducting two clinical studies that could lead to US regulatory clearance for use in lung metastases and bone metastases.
The acquisition complements BTGs Interventional Medicine platform, building on the Groups Interventional Oncology business area.
Intangible assets of 47.7m relate to developed cryoablation technology.
An estimated useful life of 15 years has been assigned to this developed technology, and associated amortisation expense will be recorded on a straight-line basis.
Goodwill arising of 16.4m, which is not deductible for tax purposes, has been assigned to the Interventional Medicine operating segment.
Goodwill represents future developments to the cryoablation technology and the value of Galils workforce which have not been reflected as separate intangible assets, together with the recognition for accounting purposes of a deferred tax liability of 17.0m relating to recognised developed technology.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017 Financials F Financials inancials 151 151 Fair Value Book Value Adjustment Fair Value m m m ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 0.4 47.3 47.7 Goodwill 16.4 16.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.6 1.0 Current assets Inventories 2.6 0.8 3.4 Trade and other receivables 3.7 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 1.3 1.3 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities Net deferred tax liabilities 6.1 6.1 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 9.4 9.4 Debt obligations 18.9 18.9 Book value and fair value of assets and liabilities acquired 19.9 59.0 39.1 Cash consideration 37.5 Fair value of contingent consideration 1.6 Total equity consideration 39.1 During the period ended 31 March 2017, Galil Medical contributed revenues of 17.2m and an operating loss including intangible asset amortisation of 2.9m of 2.3m in the period since acquisition.
If the acquisition had taken place on 1 April 2016, the Groups revenue and profit before tax would have been 573.5m and 30.2m, respectively.
B BTG plc Ann TG plc Annual R ual Repor eport and A t and Ac ccounts 2017 counts 2017
