National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 43 Basis of preparation for National Grid Gas plc Accounting policies describe our approach to recognising and A.
Going concern measuring transactions and balances in the year.
Accounting The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial policies applicable across the financial statements are shown statements on a going concern basis.
The going concern basis below.
Accounting policies that are specific to a component of presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in the financial statements have been incorporated into the operation, and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least relevant note.
one year from the date the financial statements are signed.
This section also shows areas of judgement and key sources of B.
Basis of consolidation estimation uncertainty in these financial statements.
In addition, The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial we summarise new EU endorsed accounting standards, statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
A subsidiary is amendments and interpretations and whether these are defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is effective in 2018 or later years, explaining how significant achieved where the Company has the power to affect the changes are expected to affect our reported results.
returns of an entity to which it is exposed or to which it has rights.
National Grid Gas plcs principal activities involve the transmission and distribution of gas in Great Britain.
The Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the Company is a public limited company incorporated and accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of domiciled in England, with its registered office at 1-3 Strand, the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by London WC2N 5EH.
the Company in its consolidated financial statements under IFRS.
These consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 June 2017.
The results of subsidiaries other than relating to Gas Distribution as described in C below, and associates acquired These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated accordance with International Accounting Standards IAS and income statement from the effective date of acquisition, or up to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and related the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and IFRS as adopted by the EU.
They C. Disposal of UK Gas Distribution are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and As described further in note 7, the disposal of the Gas interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March Distribution business completed on 1 October 2016 and as a 2017 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 result all assets and liabilities of UK Gas Distribution were applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of disposed.
The comparative financial information has also been prepared on this basis.
As Gas Distribution represents a separate major line of business, the business is classified as a discontinued operation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a in the consolidated income statement.
This has resulted in the historical cost basis, except for the recording of pension assets re-presentation of comparative financial information in the and liabilities, the revaluation of derivative financial instruments consolidated income statement and the consolidated statement and investments classied as available-for-sale.
These of comprehensive income, split between continuing and consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds discontinued operations.
sterling, which is also the functional currency of the Company.
The financial information relating to prior years has been reD.
Foreign currencies presented as a result of the disposal of the UK Gas Distribution Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of business, as described in C below.
The notes to the financial the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates statements have been prepared on a continuing basis unless of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing The preparation of financial statements requires management exchange rates.
Non-monetary assets are not retranslated to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported unless they are carried at fair value.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and Gains and losses arising on the retranslation of monetary expenses during the reporting period see accounting policy E. assets and liabilities are included in the income statement, 44 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 except where the adoption of hedge accounting requires Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have significant risk inclusion in other comprehensive income see note 11. of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: E. Areas of judgement and key sources of review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment estimation uncertainty charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and The preparation of financial statements requires management equipment notes 8 and 9. to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported estimation of asset liabilities for pensions and other postamounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent retirement benefits note 19. assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ 11 and 25. from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue estimations is contained in the notes to the financial statements, note 1. and the key areas are summarised below.
environmental and decommissioning provisions note 20.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the In order to illustrate the impact that changes in assumptions amounts recognised in the financial statements are as follows: could have on our results and financial position, we have included sensitivity analysis in note 26.
Concerning the sale of UK Gas Distribution note 7: - the allocation of financing costs between the continuing Group and discontinued operations: and - the identification and classification of costs associated with the disposal.
the categorisation of certain items as exceptional items, and the definition of adjusted earnings note 3. environmental and decommissioning provisions note 20.
IFRS provides certain options available within accounting standards.
Choices we have made, and continue to make, include the following: Presentational formats: we use the nature of expense method for our income statement and aggregate our statement of financial position to net assets and total equity.
In the income statement, we present subtotals of total operating profit, profit before tax and profit from continuing operations, together with additional subtotals excluding exceptional items and remeasurements.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are presented separately on the face of the income statement.
Customer contributions: contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards capital expenditure are recorded as deferred income and amortised in line with the depreciation on the associated asset.
Financial instruments: we normally opt to apply hedge accounting in most circumstances where this is permitted.
