6 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Principal Operations - Overview Our regulated businesses delivered a solid financial Earlier in 2017, The Department for Business, Energy and performance in the fourth year of RIIO.
We aim to create value Industrial Strategy BEIS confirmed, through the Building our for our stakeholders by focusing on performance and making Industrial Strategy green paper, its intention to focus on sure our processes are as efficient as they can be.
developing technical education and skills.
National Grid plc received an Outstanding grade from Ofsted, for the third time In line with our plans, we separated Gas Distribution into a consecutively, on the standard of apprentice training offered by stand-alone business.
While preparing the business for sale our Academy.
Addressing the skills shortage, and providing and a new ownership structure, we maintained our focus on high-quality training, remains important to us.
operational delivery, which resulted in continued solid performance for Gas Distribution.
Set against these developments, our businesses have continued to perform well during the last year with continued We welcomed the conclusion of the mid-period review of the world class safety levels and network reliability.
RIIO price control for Transmission which has given us certainty over our core revenues for the remaining RIIO period.
Ofgem made some adjustments to allowances in Gas Transmission for outputs no longer needed in the RIIO period.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 7 Principal Operations - Gas Transmission We have worked hard to find ways of operating more efficiently, What we do so we can make our business more agile and competitive.
For We own and operate the gas national transmission system, with example, we initiated a project to upgrade some air compressor day-to-day responsibility for balancing supply and demand.
Our units, reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 1,228 tonnes, and network comprises approximately 7,660 kilometres 4,760 yielding long-term financial savings of 2.42 million.
miles of high-pressure pipe and 618 above-ground installations.
We installed new gas control systems these will help us meet the challenges of the changing energy world and, therefore, Market Context help us balance gas even more efficiently, keeping costs to The UKs gas market and sources of gas are changing.
Domestic demand has fallen over the last five years and a significant increase is not expected in future years.
The UK We have used our regulatory innovation funding to develop continental shelf UKCS now makes up less than half our total ways to serve our customers more effectively, provide greater gas supply, with the remainder coming from Norway, value, and shape the energy systems of the future.
Through continental Europe, or further afield via shipped imports of LNG.
Project CLoCC Customer Low Cost Connections, for example, were challenging every aspect of the current gas transmission customer connections process.
It aims to reduce the time to Overall, supply capacity now exceeds peak demand by more connect from three years to less than one, and reduce the cost than 30%, giving our customers significant flexibility over which from up to 2 million to significantly less than 1 million.
It will sources of gas they choose to meet demand.
Flexible sources also make it easier for non-traditional customers to connect to of supply, such as LNG importation terminals, interconnectors the National Transmission System NTS.
and storage sites, can respond to demand more quickly than traditional UKCS supplies.
Therefore, our network needs to be Shaping the future of energy able to respond to changing day-to-day and within-day supply and demand patterns.
This year we launched a nationwide conversation on the Future of Gas to gather insights on the future role of gas and the gas transmission network.
Gas will continue to be an important part We also need to prepare for an uncertain energy landscape in of the mix in ensuring a secure energy supply at best value for the long term.
UK reliance on imported gas supplies will vary consumers while Britain transitions to a low-carbon future.
By depending on the level of gas supply from the UKCS and the engaging with stakeholders to understand what customers and development of indigenous gas sources.
end consumers value, this project will help us to identify optimal levels of future investment in the system and innovative ways to We are working closely with our customers and stakeholders to adapt our commercial arrangements.
We are focused on continuing to develop our network and services to meet their At a European level, we have worked closely with organisations needs safely, reliably and efficiently.
such as ENTSOG the European Network of Transmission System Operators for gas to implement a number of framework changes in a way that works for Britains energy market and our Operational Performance customers.
Our network reliability figures decreased slightly for Gas Transmission and are marginally below target this year.
Looking ahead However, we continue to work on initiatives that aim to strengthen reliability, such as our asset health improvement Our main focus is to drive a step change in core business work.
This year, for example, we have made good progress on performance.
We have detailed plans in place to improve the Feeder 9 gas pipeline replacement project.
This involves safety, our delivery for customers and our efficiency.
We are boring a five kilometre tunnel beneath the River Humber to continuing work in a number of priority areas.
replace a section of gas pipeline.
We are also developing new technologies to deliver work faster and increase network Safety: build on, and further improve our safety culture and reliability.
statistics through a review of our risk management approach.
Reliability: increase the amount of maintenance and replacement work on our assets, in line with our RIIO commitments and develop an improved asset health risk methodology.
8 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Efficiency: improve the quality of data on our assets to further such as the translation of new EU code requirements for gas, strengthen our investment decisions and to drive efficiencies in the development of new demand side services supporting the our project work.
In response to customer feedback, work to harmonisation of gas trading arrangements across Europe, our reduce the time taken to connect customers to our network.
Future Energy Scenarios reports, and System Operability Framework workshops and webinars.
Innovation: continue to create value for customers and the wider industry through innovation development and We are working hard across our business to place customers at implementation.
the heart of our operations.
Were holding workshops for customers so we can gain a more in-depth understanding of Emissions compliance projects: meet the European IED their requirements.
We have also started to examine each point requirements by delivering our agreed asset enhancement and of contact they have with our Company, so we can identify replacement programme.
where we can improve our processes and our customers experience with us.
We will be testing proposed improvements with customers before we implement them.
System Operator As Great Britains System Operator SO we make sure supply Priorities for the year ahead and demand are balanced in real-time and we facilitate the We will continue to find better ways to provide timely, cost connection of assets to the transmission system.
effective and innovative solutions to balance supply and demand for gas.
Market context Sources of energy are changing.
The changing location of gas Market developments being input into the transmission system will drive greater need We will continue to work with Ofgem and BEIS as they develop for flexibility as the traditional north-south flow diminishes.
proposals to help meet the energy challenges of the future.
This makes our role in matching supply and demand more challenging, so we work with the market to make sure we have Customers and stakeholders appropriate tools in place to balance the transmission system.
We will continue to develop our longer-term strategy to We work with our customers and stakeholders to shape the understand the issues that will affect our customers and future of the energy market, providing analysis and insight into stakeholders in the future, and plan how we will best support the changing nature of energy.
We also facilitate changes to the them.
market frameworks to accommodate new technologies and ways of working, while considering how the role of the SO Delivering energy should evolve over time.
We will continue to support the evolution of market frameworks in the UK and Europe to enable new types of generation and The SO is at the forefront of this debate helping to find solutions demand to come forward in response as the energy landscape with industry.
Operational Performance We continue to play a leading role in helping develop the UKs future energy strategy, and that of Europe.
Our approach includes working with customers and stakeholders on initiatives National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 9 Principal Operations - Other activities Other activities include National Grid Metering and other gas shippers.
The Gas Distribution business and associated corporate activities.
assets was sold on 1 October 2016 to National Grid Gas Distribution Limited, a fellow National Grid group undertaking.
National Grid Metering National Grid Metering NGM provides installation and Operational performance maintenance services to energy suppliers in the regulated Our network reliability figures decreased slightly for Gas market in Great Britain.
It maintains an asset base of around Distribution business however, while preparing the business for 12.3 million domestic, industrial and commercial meters.
sale and a new ownership structure, we maintained our focus on operational delivery which resulted in a solid performance for Customer satisfaction scores for NGM remain positive for the gas distribution business up to 1 October 2016. domestic, industrial and commercial businesses.
We continue to work with our customers on areas for improvement by Xoserve exploring additional products and services so we can respond On 1 October 2016, National Grid Gass ownership of Xoserve to the rapidly changing non-domestic sector.
reduced from 56.57% to 11% and therefore the results of the business cease to be consolidated after six months.
Xoserve Discontinued Operations delivered transactional services on behalf of all the major gas network transaction companies in Great Britain, including Gas Distribution National Grid.
The results of Xoserve are included within For the six months to 1 October 2016 we owned and operated discontinued operations.
four gas distribution networks comprising approximately 131,000 kilometres 81,400 miles of pipeline, transporting gas from the NTS to around 10.9 million consumers on behalf of 41
