National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 87 Company accounting policies for the year ended 31 March 2017 We are required to include the stand-alone balance sheet of our B.
Areas of judgement and key sources of parent Company, National Grid Gas plc, under the Companies estimation uncertainty Act 2006, and the statement of changes of equity under The preparation of financial statements requires management Financial Reporting Standard 102, The Financial Reporting to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and the Republic of amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Ireland FRS 102.
The following disclosures provide assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and additional information to stakeholders.
expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and A.
Basis of preparation of individual financial estimations is contained in the notes to the financial statements, statements under FRS 102 and the key areas are summarised below.
National Grid Gas plcs principal activities involve the transmission and distribution of gas in Great Britain.
The Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the Company is a public limited company incorporated and amounts recognised in the financial statements are as follows: domiciled in England, with its registered office at 1-3 Strand, environmental and decommissioning provisions note 14.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have significant risk These individual financial statements of the Company have of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of been prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, assets and liabilities within the next financial year are consistent including FRS 102 and the Companies Act 2006. with those of the Group accounts, and are as follows: review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment The individual financial statements of the Company have been charges for other intangible assets and property, plant and prepared on a historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of equipment notes 4 and 5. financial instruments, and are presented in pounds sterling, estimation of asset liabilities for pensions and other postwhich is the currency of the primary economic environment in retirement benefits notes 13. which the Company operates.
The comparative financial valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 9. information has also been prepared on this basis.
revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue.
environmental and decommissioning provisions note 14.
The individual financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis following the assessment made by the C. Disposal of Gas Distribution Directors as set on page 38.
As described further in note 7 of the consolidated accounts, the disposal of the Gas Distribution business completed on 1 The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account October 2016 and as a result all assets and liabilities of UK Gas as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.
Company has taken advantage of the exemption, under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12 b, from preparing a cash flow statement.
As Gas Distribution represents a separate major line of business, the business is classified as a discontinued operation The Company has also taken advantage of the exemption, in the consolidated income statement.
This has resulted in the under FRS 102 paragraph 1.12 d, from making disclosures re-presentation of comparative financial information in the relating to share based payments as the equivalent disclosures income statement and statement of comprehensive income, are included in the consolidated financial statements of the split between continuing and discontinued operations.
Group, and also under paragraph 1.12 e, from disclosing transactions with other members of the National Grid group of companies.
D. Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of In accordance with exemptions under FRS 102 paragraph the Company are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing 1.12 c, the Company has not presented the financial on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, instruments disclosures required by the standard, as monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign disclosures which comply with the standard are included in the currencies are retranslated at closing exchange rates.
and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets and liabilities are included in the profit and loss account.
88 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 The assets residual values are reviewed, and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.
The effect of E. Intangible assets any change is accounted for prospectively.
Computer software is stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
Software is In assessing estimated useful economic lives, which are amortised over the length of period we expect to receive benefit reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is given to any from the asset.
The principal amortisation period for software is contractual arrangements and operational requirements relating eight years.
Unless otherwise determined by operational requirements, the depreciation periods for the Intangible assets are tested for impairment only if there is some principal categories of tangible fixed assets are, in general, as indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been shown in the following table: impaired.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the recoverable amount, if lower.
Where such an asset does not Depreciation periods Years generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Freehold and leasehold properties up to 50 recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which that asset belongs is estimated.
Impairments are recognised in the Plant and machinery: income statement and are disclosed separately.
Any assets Mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 which suffered impairment in a previous period are reviewed for Meters and metering equipment 10 to 16 possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
Motor vehicles and office equipment up to 7 F. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are included in the balance sheet at their G. Fixed asset investments cost less accumulated depreciation.
Costs include payroll costs Investments held as xed assets are stated at cost less any and finance costs incurred which are directly attributable to the provisions for impairment.
Investments are reviewed for construction of tangible fixed assets, as well as the cost of any impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that asset retirement obligations.
the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairments are Tangible fixed assets include assets in which the Companys calculated such that the carrying value of the xed asset interest comprises legally protected statutory or contractual investment is the lower of its cost or recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of its net realisable value and its value-in-use, where value in use is the present value of Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset.
including capital expenditure for safety and environmental assets, extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of H. Impairment of fixed assets existing assets.
Impairments of fixed assets are calculated as the difference Contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets between the carrying values of the net assets of income from customers for connections to the gas transmission and generating units, including where appropriate, investments, and distribution networks are initially recognised as deferred income their recoverable amounts.
Recoverable amount is defined as and credited to revenue once the connection has been the higher of net realisable value or estimated value in use at completed.
Contributions received towards the provision of the date the impairment review is undertaken.
Net realisable ongoing access to a supply of services are recognised initially value represents the amount that can be generated through the as deferred income and revenue is subsequently recognised sale of assets.
Value in use represents the present value of over the period in which the service is provided.
Contributions expected future cash flows discounted on a pre-tax basis, using received towards the altering, diverting or relocating a tangible the estimated cost of capital of the income generating unit.
fixed asset are included in creditors as deferred income and credited on a straight-line basis to the profit and loss account Impairment reviews are carried out if there is some indication over the estimated useful economic lives of the assets to which that impairment may have occurred, or where otherwise they relate.
required to ensure that fixed assets are not carried above their estimated recoverable amounts.
Impairments are recognised in Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the the profit and loss account, and, where material, are disclosed course of construction.
Other tangible fixed assets are as exceptional.
Impairment reversals are recognised when, in depreciated on a straight-line basis, at rates estimated to write managements opinion, the reversal is permanent.
off their book values over their estimated useful economic lives.
Taxation Current tax for the current and prior periods is provided at the amount expected to be paid or recovered using the tax rates To update National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 89 and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted The interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to by the balance sheet date.
the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
This cost is recognised in profit or loss Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result account within net interest.
in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or The present value of the defined benefit obligation, less the fair the right to pay less tax, at a future date, at tax rates expected value of the assets of the scheme at the reporting date, is to apply when the timing differences reverse, based on tax recognised on the balance sheet.
rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively The difference between the actual and expected returns on enacted by the balance sheet date.
Timing differences arise scheme assets and the experience gains or losses arising on from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in scheme liabilities, together with gains or losses arising from taxation computations in periods different from those in which changes in actuarial assumptions, are charged or credited to they are included in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is N. Leases regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
A lease is classified as an operating lease if it does not transfer J.
Stocks substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership.
Stocks are stated at cost less provision for deterioration and Operating lease payments are charged to the profit and loss obsolescence.
Cost is determined on the first-in, first-out FIFO account on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Where applicable, cost comprises direct materials and direct labour costs as well as those overheads that have been O.
Financial instruments incurred in bringing the stocks to their present location and The Companys accounting policies under FRS 102 are the condition.
same as the Groups accounting policies under IFRS, namely IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation, IAS 39 Financial K. Environmental costs Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and IFRS 7 Environmental costs, based on discounted future estimated Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
The Company applies expenditures expected to be incurred, are provided for in full.
these policies only in respect of the financial instruments that it The unwinding of the discount is included within the profit and has, namely investments, derivative financial instruments, loss account as a financing charge.
debtors, cash at bank and in hand, borrowings and creditors.
L. Revenue The policies are set out in notes 6, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 to the Revenue represents the sales value derived from the consolidated financial statements.
The Company is taking the transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas exemption for financial instruments disclosures, because IFRS metering services during the year, including an assessment of 7 disclosures are given in the notes to the consolidated financial services provided, but not invoiced as at the year end.
excludes value added tax and intra-company sales.
P. Hedge accounting Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount The Company applies the same accounting policy as the Group permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be in respect of fair value hedges and cash flow hedges.
This made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for policy is set out in note 11 to the consolidated financial the overrecovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to statements.
future prices relates to the provision of future services.
Similarly, an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement Q. Share-based payments permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to underrecovery.
certain employees of the Company.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant, based M. Pensions on an estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
The Company's employees are members of either the defined This fair value is recognised on a straight-line basis over the benefit National Grid UK Pension Scheme or the National Grid vesting period, as an operating cost and an increase in equity.
Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the regular service cost of providing retirement benefits to employees during the period, R. Parent Company guarantees together with the cost of any benefits relating to past service, The Company has guaranteed the repayment of the principal are recognised within operating costs.
sum, any associated premium and interest on specific loans 90 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 due from certain subsidiary undertakings to third parties.
In the the lower of cost and fair value less costs to sell.
For allocations event of default or non-performance by the subsidiary, the of emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is Company recognises such guarantees as insurance contracts, deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
at fair value with a corresponding increase in the carrying value of the investment.
Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are recognised in the income statement in the period in which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in S. Environmental provision respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and The environmental provision is calculated on a discounted basis charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in and represents the estimated environmental restoration and which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
remediation costs relating to a number of sites owned and managed by the Company.
Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the T. Emission allowances Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in the Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon financial year in which they are approved.
dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at
