Annual financial statements 04 Accounting policies Certain disclosures required under IAS24 undertakings.
The groups interests in Basis of presentation Related Party Disclosures have been associated undertakings are included in the These annual financial statements have included in the section marked as audited consolidated balance sheet at cost plus been prepared to present the financial in the remuneration report in Investecs the post-acquisition changes in the groups position and results of Investec plc and integrated annual report.
share of the net assets of the associate.
its subsidiaries as if the contractual The consolidated balance sheet reflects arrangements which create the dual Basis of consolidation the associated undertakings net of listed company DLC structure did not accumulated impairment losses.
exist and, with this exception and the As discussed above, these annual financial exclusion of certain other remuneration statements have been prepared to present All intergroup balances, transactions and related party disclosures, are prepared the financial position and results of Investec and unrealised gains or losses within the in accordance with International Financial plc and its subsidiaries as if the contractual group that do not reflect an impairment to Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted arrangements which create the DLC the asset, are eliminated in full regarding by the European Union EU.
For an structure did not exist.
subsidiaries and to the extent of the interest understanding of the financial position, in an associate.
All subsidiaries or structured entities are results and cash flows of the Investec DLC consolidated when the group controls an group, the user is referred to Investecs investee.
The group controls an investee Segmental reporting integrated annual report.
if it is exposed to, or has rights to variable An operating segment is a component Investec DLC group consists of two returns from its involvement with the of the group that engages in business separate legal entities, being Investec investee and has the ability to affect those activities from which it may earn revenues plc and Investec Limited, that operate returns through its power over the investee.
and incur expenses, including revenues under a DLC structure.
The effect of the The financial results of subsidiaries are DLC structure is that Investec plc and its and expenses that relate to transactions included in the consolidated annual financial with any of the groups other components, subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its statements of the group from the date on subsidiaries operate together as a single whose operating results are reviewed which control is obtained until the date the economic entity, with neither assuming a regularly by chief operating decision-makers group can no longer demonstrate control.
dominant role, and accordingly are reported which include members of the board and The group performs a reassessment of as a single reporting entity under IFRS.
for which discrete financial information control whenever there is a change in the isavailable.
These group annual financial statements substance of the relationship between are prepared in accordance with IFRS, The groups segmental reporting is Investec and an investee.
A change in the as adopted by the EU which comply presented in the form of a business ownership interest of a subsidiary, without with IFRSs as issued by the International analysis.
The business analysis is a loss of control, is accounted for as an Accounting Standards Board IASB.
At presented in terms of the groups three equity transaction.
Investec also holds 31 March 2017, IFRS as endorsed by the principal business divisions, namely, Asset investments, for example private equity EU are identical in all material respects to Management, Wealth & Investment and investments, which give rise to significant, current IFRS applicable to the group, with Specialist Banking.
but not majority, voting rights.
Assessing differences only in the effective dates of these voting rights and whether Investec Group costs that are disclosed separately certain standards.
controls these entities requires judgement largely relate to group brand and marketing that affects the date at which subsidiaries The group annual financial statements have costs and a portion of executive and are consolidated or deconsolidated.
been prepared on a historical cost basis, support functions which are associated except for investment properties, availablewith group-led activities.
These costs are Entities, other than subsidiary undertakings, not incurred by the operating divisions and for-sale investments, derivative financial in which the group exercises significant are necessary to support the operational instruments, financial assets and financial influence over operating and financial functioning of the group.
liabilities held at fair value through profit or loss policies, are treated as interests in or subject to hedge accounting, and liabilities associated undertakings.
Interests in for pension fund surpluses and deficits that Business combinations associated undertakings are accounted have been measured at fair value.
for using the equity method from the date and goodwill that significant influence commences The accounting policies adopted by the Business combinations are accounted until the date that significant influence group are consistent with the prior year.
for using the acquisition method.
In circumstances where interests cost of an acquisition is measured as the in associated undertakings or joint venture Presentation of aggregate of the consideration transferred holdings arise in which the group has no measured at the acquisition date fair value strategic intention, these investments are information and the amount of any prior non-controlling classified as venture capital holdings and Disclosure under IFRS 7 Financial interest in the acquiree.
For each business are designated as held at fair value through Instruments: Disclosures and IAS 1 combination, the group measures the nonprofit or loss.
Presentation of Financial Statements: controlling interest in the acquiree either Capital Disclosures relating to the nature For equity accounted associates, the at fair value or at the proportionate share and extent of risks have been included consolidated annual financial statements of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
in sections marked as audited in the risk include the attributable share of the Acquisition costs incurred are expensed management report on pages 47 to 119. results and reserves of associated immediately in the income statement.
184 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Annual financial statements Accounting policies 04 continued When the group acquires a business, it relative values of the operation disposed Foreign currency transactions are translated assesses the financial assets and liabilities of and the portion of the cash-generating into the functional currency of the entity assumed for appropriate classification and unitsretained.
in which the transactions arise based on the designation in accordance with the rates of exchange ruling at the date of contractual terms, economic circumstances thetransactions.
Share-based payments and pertinent conditions at the acquisition At each balance sheet date foreign currency date.
This includes the separation of to employees items are translated as follows: embedded derivatives in host contracts by The group engages in equity-settled the acquiree.
Monetary items other than monetary share-based payments in respect of If the business combination is achieved in items that form part of the net services received from employees.
The fair stages, the acquisition date fair value of investment in a foreign operation are value of the services received in respect the groups previously held equity interest translated using closing rates, with of equity-settled share-based payments is in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value gainsor losses recognised in the determined by reference to the fair value ateach acquisition date through the incomestatement of the shares or share options on the incomestatement.
date of grant to the employee.
The cost Exchange differences arising on Any contingent consideration to be of the share-based payment, together monetary items that form part of the transferred by the group will be recognised with a corresponding increase in equity, is net investment in a foreign operation at fair value at the acquisition date.
recognised in the income statement over are determined using closing rates and Subsequent changes to the fair value of the the period the service conditions of the recognised as a separate component contingent consideration, which is deemed grant are met with the amount changing of equity foreign currency translation to be an asset or liability, will be recognised according to the number of awards reserve upon consolidation and is in accordance with IAS 39 either in the expected to vest.
The cumulative expense reclassified to the income statement income statement or as a change to other recognised for equity-settled transactions upon disposal of the net investment comprehensive income.
If the contingent at each reporting date until the vesting consideration is classified as equity, it will Non-monetary items that are measured date reflects the extent to which the not be remeasured until it is finally settled at historical costs are translated using vesting period has expired and the groups within equity.
the exchange rates ruling at the date of best estimate of the number of equity the transaction.
instruments that will ultimately vest.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the On consolidation, the results and financial Fair value measurements are based on consideration transferred and the amount position of foreign operations are translated option pricing models, taking into account recognised for non-controlling interest over into the presentation currency of the group the risk-free interest rate, volatility of the the net identifiable assets acquired and as follows: underlying equity instrument, expected liabilities assumed.
If this consideration dividends and current share prices.
Assets and liabilities for each balance and amount recognised for non-controlling sheet presented are translated at interest is less than the fair values of Where the terms of an equity-settled the identifiable net assets acquired, the the closing rate at the date of the award are modified, the minimum expense discount on acquisition is recognised balancesheet recognised in staff costs is the expense directly in the income statement as a gain in Income and expense items are as if the terms had not been modified.
translated at exchange rates ruling at An additional expense is recognised for After initial recognition, goodwill is the date of the transaction any modification which increases the total measured at cost less any accumulated fair value of the share-based payment All resulting exchange differences are impairment losses.
The group tests goodwill arrangement, or is otherwise beneficial to recognised in other comprehensive acquired in a business combination for the employee as measured at the date income foreign currency translation impairment annually, irrespective of whether ofmodification.
reserve, which is recognised in the an indication of impairment exists and in income statement on disposal of the accordance with IAS 36. foreign operation Foreign currency For the purpose of impairment testing, Cash flow items are translated at the transactions and foreign goodwill acquired in a business exchange rates ruling at the date of combination is, from the acquisition date, operations thetransactions.
allocated to each of the groups cash generating units that are expected to The presentation currency of the group benefit from the combination.
is Pounds Sterling, being the functional Revenue recognition currency of Investec plc.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash Revenue consists of interest income, fee and generating unit and part of the operation Foreign operations are subsidiaries, commission income, investment income, within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill trading income arising from customer flow, interests in associated undertakings or associated with the operation disposed of trading income arising from balance sheet branches of the group, the activities of is included in the carrying amount of the management and other trading activities and which are based in a functional currency operation when determining the gain or loss other operating income.
other than that of the reporting entity.
The on disposal of the operation.
functional currency of group entities is Revenue is recognised when it can be determined based on the primary economic Goodwill disposed of in these reliably measured and it is probable that circumstances is measured based on the environment in which the entity operates.
the economic benefits will flow to the entity.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 185 Annual financial statements 04 Accounting policies continued Revenue related to provision of services and revenue from consolidated private Regular way purchase and sales is recognised when the related services equity investments.
Operating costs transactions in respect of financial assets are performed.
Revenue is measured at that require delivery of a financial instrument associated with these investments the fair value of the consideration received within the time frame established by market are included in operating costs in the orreceivable.
convention are recorded at trade date.
Interest income is recognised in the income Financial assets and liabilities statement using the effective interest Fair value measurement held at fair value through profit rate method.
Fees charged on lending Fair value is the price that would be or loss transactions are included in the effective received to sell an asset or paid to transfer yield calculation to the extent that they Financial instruments held at fair value a liability in an orderly transaction between form an integral part of the effective interest through profit or loss include all instruments market participants at the measurement rate yield, but exclude those fees earned classified as held-for-trading and those for a separately identifiable significant act, date in the principal or, in its absence, instruments designated as held at fair value which are recognised upon completion of the most advantageous market to which through profit or loss.
Fees and commissions charged in the group has access at that date.
The Financial instruments classified as heldlieu of interest are recognised as income fair value of a liability reflects its nonas part ofthe effective interest rate on for-trading or designated as held at fair performance risk.
value through profit or loss are initially When available, the group measures the recorded at fair value on the balance sheet The effective interest rate method is based fair value of an instrument using the quoted with changes in fair value subsequently on the estimated life of the underlying price in an active market for that instrument.
recognised in the income statement.
instrument and where this estimate is not Financial instruments are classified as A market is regarded as active if readily available, the contractual life.
trading when they are held with the transactions for the asset or liability take Fee and commission income includes intention of short-term disposal, held with place with sufficient frequency and volume fees earned from providing advisory the intention of generating short-term profit, to provide pricing information on an services as well as portfolio management or are derivatives which are not designated ongoing basis.
and includes rental income from as part of effective hedges.
Investment If there is no quoted price in an active instruments designated as held at fair advisory and management fees are market, then the group uses valuation valuethrough profit or loss are designated accrued over the period to which the techniques that maximise the use of as such on initial recognition of the income relates.
Performance fees are relevant observable inputs and minimise the instrument and remain in this classification recognised when they become receivable.
No revenue is recognised if there are valuation technique incorporates all of the significant uncertainties regarding Financial assets and liabilities are factors that market participants would take recovery of the consideration due.
designated as held at fair value through into account in pricing a transaction.
profit or loss only if: Investment income includes income, If an asset or a liability measured at fair other than margin from securities held for they eliminate or significantly reduce value has a bid price and an ask price, the purpose of generating interest yield, a measurement or recognition then the group measures assets and long dividends and capital appreciation.
inconsistency that would otherwise positions at a bid price and liabilities and arise from measuring assets or liabilities Customer flow trading income includes short positions at an ask price.
or recognising the gains and losses on income from trading activities arising from them on different bases: or The group classifies disclosed fair values making and facilitating client activities.
according to a hierarchy that reflects the a group of financial assets, financial Trading income arising from balance sheet significance of observable market inputs.
liabilities or both is managed and its management and other trading activities performance is evaluated on a fair value A transfer is made between the hierarchy consists of proprietary trading income and basis in accordance with a documented levels when the inputs have changed other gains or losses arising from balance risk management or investment or there has been a change in valuation sheet management.
strategyand information about the method.
Transfers are deemed to group is provided internally on that Trading profit includes the unrealised profit occur at the end of each semi-annual basis to the groups key management on trading portfolios, which are .
Equity investments received in a contract contains one or more lieu of corporate finance fees are included in embedded derivatives which investment portfolio and valued accordingly.
Financial instruments significantly modifies the cash flows that Dividend income is recognised when Financial instruments are initially recognised would be required by the contract and at their fair value.
For financial assets the groups right to receive payment is not clearly prohibited from separation or financial liabilities not held at fair isestablished.
from the host contract and the group value through profit or loss, transaction has designated the entire hybrid Included in other operating income is costs that are directly attributable to the contract as a financial instrument at fair incidental rental income, gains on realisation acquisition or issue of the financial assets value through profit or loss.
of properties other than investment or financial liabilities are included in the properties which is included in investment initial measurement.
All other transaction income, operating lease income, income costs are recorded in the income from interests in associated undertakings statementimmediately.
186 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Annual financial statements Accounting policies 04 continued the structured entities issue debt securities Loans and receivables Financial liabilities to external investors to fund the purchase Financial liabilities are classified as nonLoans and receivables are non-derivative of the securitised assets.
When the group trading, held-for-trading or designated as financial assets with fixed or determinable consolidates the structured entity, the held at fair value through profit or loss.
payments that are not quoted in an active group recognises the assets and liabilities market and exclude the following: Non-trading liabilities are recorded at on a gross basis.
When the group does amortised cost applying the effective not consolidate the structured entity, the Those that the group intends to trade in, interest rate method.
securitised assets are derecognised and which are classified as held-for-trading only any position still held by the group in and those that the group designates at Held-for-trading liabilities or liabilities the structured entity is reflected.
fair value through profit or loss designated as held at fair value through Those that the group designates as profit or loss are measured at fair value.
Available-for-sale financial available-for-sale All changes in fair value of financial liabilities assets Those for which the group may not are recognised in the income statement.
Available-for-sale financial assets are those recover substantially all of its initial which are designated as such or do not investment, other than because of credit Day-one profit or loss qualify to be classified as designated at fair deterioration, which is accounted for as When the transaction price differs from value through profit or loss, held to-maturity, available-for-sale instruments.
the fair value of other observable current or loans and receivables.
They include Subsequent to initial recognition, loans and market transactions in the same instrument strategically held equity instruments that are receivables are measured at amortised not interests in associated undertakings, joint or based on the valuation technique whose cost, using the effective interest rate ventures or subsidiaries of the group.
Further, variables include only data from observable method, less impairment losses.
The certain debt instruments that are held at markets, the difference between the effective interest rate represents the rate fair value due to being quoted on an active transaction price and fair value is recognised that exactly discounts future projected cash market, which are neither actively traded nor immediately in the income statement.
flows over the expected life of the financial held-to-maturity instruments, are classified as instrument, to the net carrying amount of In cases where fair value is determined available-for-sale financial assets.
Included in the using data which is not observable, the calculation of the effective interest rate is Financial assets classified as availabledifference between the transaction price any discount or premium on acquisition and for-sale are measured at fair value with and model value is only recognised in fees that are an integral part of the effective unrealised gains or losses recognised the income statement when the inputs interest rate.
directly in other comprehensive income becomeobservable, or when the in the available-for-sale reserve.
When instrument is derecognised or over the life Losses arising from impairment of such the asset is disposed of, the cumulative of the transaction.
investments are recognised in the income gain or loss previously recognised in other statement line impairment losses on loans comprehensive income is recognised in the and advances.
Impairments of financial assets income statement.
Interest earned while held at amortised cost Interest on impaired financial assets is holding available-for-sale financial assets recognised using the rate of interest used is reported in the income statement as Financial assets carried at amortised cost to discount the future cash flows for the interest income using the effective interest are impaired if there is objective evidence rate.
Dividends earned while holding purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
that the group would not receive cash available-for-sale financial assets are flows according to the original contractual recognised in the income statement when Securitisation credit terms.
Financial assets are assessed for the right to payment has been established.
investment and trading impairment at each balance sheet date and when an indicator of impairment activities exposures If an available-for-sale instrument is isidentified.
determined to be impaired, the respective The group makes use of securitisation cumulative unrealised losses previously vehicles as a source of finance, as a means The test for impairment is based either recognised in other comprehensive income of risk transfer and to leverage returns on specific financial assets or collectively are included in the income statement in the through the retention of equity tranches on a portfolio of similar homogeneous period in which the impairment is identified.
in low default rate portfolios.
Over and above individual collective predominantly focuses on the securitisation impairments raised at specific portfolio Impairments on available-for-sale equity of lease receivables.
The group also trades levels, the group recognises a collective instruments are not reversed once in structured credit investments.
impairment allowance at a central level recognised in the income statement.
within the Specialist Banking business The structured entities are consolidated If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of segment that takes into account macrounder IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial a debt instrument classified as availableeconomic factors, mainly driven by data Statements when the group has exposure for-sale increases and the increase can be related to the prevailing credit markets to or rights to, variable returns from its objectively related to an event occurring and which indicate incurred but not involvement with the investee and has the after the impairment loss was recognised specifically identified losses across the ability to affect those returns through its in the income statement, the impairment loanportfolios that is, exposures in all power over the investee.
loss is reversed, limited to the impairment business segments.
Assets specifically Loans and advances that are originated value previously recognised in the identified asimpaired are excluded from the are transferred to structured entities, and incomestatement.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 187 Annual financial statements 04 Accounting policies continued Impairments are credited to an allowance Reclassifications are recorded at fair to be highly effective if the changes in account which is carried against the carrying value at the date of reclassification, which fair value attributable to the hedged risk value of financial assets.
Interest continues during the period for which the hedge is becomes the new amortised cost.
to be accrued on the reduced carrying designated are expected to offset in a amount based on the original effective range of 80% to 125% Derivative instruments interest rate of the asset.
Loans together The effectiveness of the hedge can be All derivative instruments of the group with the associated allowance are written off reliably measured, i. e. the fair value of are recorded on the balance sheet at when there is no realistic prospect of future the hedged item that are attributable fairvalue.
Positive and negative fair recovery and all collateral has been realised to the hedged risk and the fair value valuesare reported as assets and or transferred to the group.
ofthe hedging instrument can be .
reliablymeasured An allowance for impairment is only Derivative positions are entered into either reversed when there is objective evidence The hedge effectiveness is assessed for trading purposes or as part of the that the credit quality has improved to the on an ongoing basis and determined groups asset and liability management extent that there is reasonable assurance of actually to have been highly effective activities to manage exposures to interest timely collection of principal and interest in throughout the financial reporting rate and foreign currency risks.
Both terms of the original contractual agreement.
periods for which the hedge realised and unrealised profit or losses wasdesignated.
The impairment is calculated as the arising on derivatives are recognised in the difference between the carrying value of income statement as part of trading income For qualifying fair value hedges, the change the asset and the expected cash flows other than circumstances in which cash in fair value of the hedging instrument including net expected proceeds on flow hedging is applied as detailed in the is recognised in the income statement.
realisation of collateral discounted at hedge accounting section below.
Changes in fair value of the hedged item the original effective rate.
Impairments of that is attributable to the hedged risk are Derivative instruments entered into as financial assets held at amortised cost are also recognised in the income statement.
economic hedges which do not qualify recognised in the income statement.
for hedge accounting and derivatives that Qualifying hedges of a net investment in are entered into for trading purposes are a foreign operation, including a hedge of Derecognition of financial treated in the same way as instruments that a monetary item that is accounted for as assets and liabilities are held-for-trading.
part of the net investment.
Changes in A financial asset, or a portion thereof, is Credit derivatives are entered into for the fair value of the hedging instrument derecognised when the groups rights to trading purposes.
Credit derivatives are relating to the effective portion of the hedge cash flows have expired or when the group initially recognised at their fair values, being are recognised in other comprehensive has transferred its rights to cash flows the transaction price of the derivative.
income while any gains or losses relating relating to the financial assets and either a Subsequently the derivatives are carried to the ineffective portion are recognised in the group has transferred substantially all at fair value, with movements in fair value the income statement.
On disposal of the the risks and rewards associated with the through profit or loss, based on the foreign operation, the cumulative value of financial assets or b the group has neither current market price or remeasured price.
any such gain or loss recorded in other transferred nor retained substantially all The counterparty risk from derivative comprehensive income is reclassified to the the risks and rewards associated with the transactions is taken into account when income statement.
financial assets but has transferred control reporting the fair value of derivative of the assets.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when it positions.
The adjustment to the fair value is is determined that the instrument ceases known as the credit value adjustment CVA.
A financial liability is derecognised when it to be highly effective as a hedge: when the is extinguished, that is when the obligation derivative expires, or is sold, terminated or Hedge accounting is discharged, cancelled or expired.
When exercised: when the hedged item matures an existing financial liability is replaced or The group applies either fair value or hedge or is sold or repaid: when a forecasted modified with substantially different terms, of net investments in foreign operations transaction is no longer deemed highly such a replacement or modification is treated accounting when the transactions meet probable or when the designation as a as a derecognition of the original liability the specified hedge accounting criteria.
and the recognition of a new liability.
The To qualify for hedge accounting treatment, difference in the respective carrying amounts the group ensures that all of the following Embedded derivatives is recognised in the income statement.
conditions are met: To the extent that a derivative may be At inception of the hedge, the group Reclassification of financial embedded in a hybrid contract and the formally documents the relationship instruments hybrid contract is not carried at fair value between the hedging instrument s with changes in fair value recorded in the The group may reclassify, in certain rare and hedged item s including the income statement, the embedded derivative circumstances, non-derivative financial risk management objectives and the is separated from the host contract and assets out of the held-for-trading category strategy in undertaking the hedge accounted for as a standalone derivative if and into the available-for-sale, loans transaction.
Also at the inception of the and only if: and receivables, or held-to-maturity hedge relationship, a formal assessment categories.
It may also reclassify, in certain is undertaken to ensure the hedging The economic characteristics and circumstances, financial instruments out instrument is expected to be highly risks of the embedded derivative are of the available-for-sale category and effective in offsetting the designated risk not closely related to the economic into the loans and receivables category.
A hedge is expected 188 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Annual financial statements Accounting policies 04 continued characteristics and risks of the recorded as a liability on balance sheet A finance lease is a lease that transfers hostcontract substantially all of the risks and rewards under repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities lent.
Securities incidental to ownership of an asset.
An A separate instrument with the same operating lease is a lease other than a that are purchased under a commitment terms as the embedded derivative would finance lease.
to resell the securities at a future date meet the definition of a derivative.
are not recognised on the balance sheet.
Where classified as a finance lease, Offsetting of financial assets The consideration paid is recognised amounts outstanding on these contracts, and liabilities as an asset under reverse repurchase net of unearned finance charges, are agreements and cash collateral on Financial assets and liabilities are offset included in loans and advances where the securities borrowed.
when there is both an intention to settle group is the lessor and included in liabilities on a net basis or simultaneously and where the group is the lessee.
Finance The difference between the sale and acurrently enforceable legal right to charges on finance leases and instalment repurchase prices is treated as interest offsetexists.
credit transactions are credited or debited expense and is accrued over the life to the income statement in proportion to of the agreement using the effective Issued debt and equity financial the capital balances outstanding at the rate interestmethod.
instruments implicit in the agreement.
Securities borrowing transactions that are Financial instruments issued by the group Where classified as operating leases, not cash collateralised are not included on are classified as liabilities if they contain a rentals payable receivable are charged the balance sheet.
Securities lending and contractual obligation to deliver cash or credited in the income statement on a borrowing transactions which are cash another financial asset.
straight-line basis over the lease term.
collateralised are accounted for in the same Contingent rentals are accrued to the Financial instruments issued by the group manner as securities sold or purchased income statement when incurred.
are classified as equity where they confer subject to repurchase commitments.
on the holder a residual interest in the group, and the group has no obligation Property and equipment Financial guarantees to deliver either cash or another financial Financial guarantee contracts issued by asset to the holder.
The components of Property and equipment are recorded the group are those contracts that require compound issued financial instruments atcost less accumulated depreciation a payment to be made to reimburse the are accounted for separately with the andimpairments.
holder for a loss it incurs because the liability component separated first and any Cost is the cash equivalent paid or the fair residualamount being allocated to the specified debtor fails to make a payment value of the consideration given to acquire equity component.
when due, in accordance with the terms an asset and includes other expenditures of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantees Equity instruments issued by subsidiaries of that are directly attributable to the are initially recognised at fair value, Investec plc are recorded as non-controlling acquisition of the asset.
adjusted for the transaction costs that interests on the balance sheet.
Depreciation is provided on the depreciable aredirectly attributable to the issuance of amount of each component on a straightEquity instruments are initially measured net theguarantee.
line basis over the expected useful life of of directly attributable issue costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the the asset.
Treasury shares represent Investec plc liability under each guarantee is measured shares repurchased by the group which The depreciable amount related to each at the higher of the amount recognised asset is determined as the difference has not been cancelled.
Treasury shares less cumulative amortisation and the best between the cost and the residual value are deducted from shareholders equity estimate of expenditure required to settle and represent the purchase consideration, of the asset.
The residual value is the any financial obligation arising as a result estimated amount, net of disposal costs, including directly attributable costs.
Subsequent to initial that the group would currently obtain from treasury shares are subsequently sold measurement, all changes in the balance the disposal of an asset in similar age and or reissued, net proceeds received are sheet carrying value are recognised in the condition as expected at the end of its included in shareholders equity.
Dividends on ordinary shares are The current and comparative annual Instalment credit, leases and recognised as a deduction from equity at depreciation rates for each class of property the earlier of payment date or the date that rental agreements and equipment is as follows: it is approved by Investec plc shareholders.
The determination of whether an Computer and related equipment 20% arrangement is, or contains a lease Sale and repurchase to 33% is based on the substance of the agreements including Motor vehicles 20% to 25% arrangement at the inception of the lease.
securities borrowing and The arrangement is, or contains, a lease if Furniture and fittings 10% to 20% lending fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent Freehold buildings 2% on the use of a specific asset or assets and Securities sold subject to a commitment Leasehold property and improvements to repurchase, at a fixed price or a selling the arrangement conveys a right to use the asset assets, even if that right is not price plus a lenders return, remain on balance sheet.
Proceeds received are explicitly specified in an arrangement.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 189 Annual financial statements 04 Accounting policies continued Leasehold improvements depreciation its carrying value, the carrying value of the taxable profit will be available against which rates are determined by reference to the deferred taxation assets can be utilised.
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount.
the appropriate useful life of its separate components, limited to the period of the Impairment losses are recognised as Items recognised directly in other lease.
Leasehold property depreciation rates an expense in the income statement in comprehensive income are net of related are determined by reference to the period of the period in which they are identified.
Reversals of impairment losses are No depreciation is provided on recognised in income in the period in which Employee benefits freehold land.
However, similar to other the reversals are identified, to the extent property-related assets, it is subject to The group operates various defined that the carrying value of the asset does not impairmenttesting when an indication of exceed the amount that would have been contribution schemes and two closed impairment exists.
Routine maintenance and service costs for In respect of the defined contribution group assets are expensed as incurred.
Trust and fiduciary scheme, all employer contributions are Subsequent expenditure is only capitalised charged to the income statement as activities if it is probable that future economic incurred, in accordance with the rules benefits associated with the item will flow to The group acts as a trustee or in other of the scheme, and included under the group.
fiduciary capacities that result in the staffcosts.
holding, placing or managing of assets for The assets of the defined benefit schemes Investment properties the account of and at the risk of clients.
are measured at their market value at the Properties held for capital appreciation or As these are not assets of the group, they balance sheet date and the liabilities of the rental yield are classified as investment are not recognised on the balance sheet schemes are measured using the projected properties.
Investment properties are but are included at market value as part of unit credit method.
The discount rate carried at fair value, with fair value gains or assets under administration.
used to measure the schemes liabilities losses recognised in the income statement is the current rate of return on an AA in investment income.
corporate bond at the balance sheet date Taxation and deferred Fair value of investment properties are of equivalent term and currency to the taxation calculated by taking into account the liabilities.
The extent to which the schemes expected rental stream associated assets exceed or fall short of the schemes Current taxation payable is provided for with the property, and is supported by liabilities is shown as a surplus to the based on the amount expected to be marketevidence.
extent that it is considered recoverable or payable on taxable profit at rates that are deficit in the balance sheet.
enacted or substantively enacted and Trading properties applicable to the relevant period.
Actuarial gains and losses related to the defined benefit asset or liability are Trading properties are carried at the lower Deferred taxation is provided on temporary of cost and net realisable value.
recognised immediately directly in other differences between the carrying amount of comprehensive income.
an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base, except where such temporary Intangible assets The group has no liabilities for other differences arise from: postretirement benefits.
Intangible assets are recorded at cost The initial recognition of goodwill less accumulated amortisation and The initial recognition of an asset or impairments.
Intangible assets with a finite Borrowing costs life, are amortised over the useful economic liability in a transaction which is not a Borrowing costs that are directly business combination and at the time life currently three to twenty years on attributable to property developments a straight line basis.
The depreciable of the transaction has no effect on the which take a substantial period of time to income statement or taxable profit amount related to each intangible asset is develop are capitalised.
determined as the difference between the In respect of temporary differences cost and the residual value of the asset.
associated with the investments in Provisions, contingent subsidiaries and interests in associated undertakings, where the timing of the Impairment of liabilities and contingent reversal of the temporary differences can non-financial assets assets be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in At each balance sheet date, the group Provisions are recognised when the the foreseeable future.
reviews the carrying value of non-financial group has a present obligation legal or assets, other than investment properties for constructive as a result of a past event: Deferred taxation assets or liabilities are indication of impairment.
The recoverable it is probable that an outflow of resources measured using the tax rates that have amount, being the higher of fair value embodying economic benefits will be been enacted or substantively enacted at less cost of disposal and value in use, is required to settle the obligation and a the balance sheet date.
determined for any assets for which an reliable estimate can be made of the indication of impairment is identified.
If the Deferred taxation assets are recognised amount of the obligation.
The expense recoverable amount of an asset is less than to the extent that it is probable that future relating to a provision is presented 190 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Annual financial statements Accounting policies 04 continued in the income statement net of any With reference to financial liabilities held The group has established an IFRS 9 steering committee comprising of executive reimbursement.
Contingent assets and at fair value, the standard requires that contingent liabilities are not recognised on changes to fair value attributable to representation and key management from Risk, Finance, Analytics and IT.
own credit risk are recognised directly in other comprehensive income without The committee is accountable for IFRS9 recycling through the income statement: Standards and implementation and is supported by impairment methodology: the key working groups responsible for different interpretations issued change is related to a shift from an work streams.
The committee continues incurred loss to an expected loss but not yet effective to progress with documentation of the impairment methodology.
At initial groups accounting policy and governance Standards and interpretations issued but recognition an allowance or provision framework and the development of not yet effective in the case of commitments and ECL models and operating and system guarantees is required for expected The following standards and target operating models.
The committee credit losses ECL resulting from default interpretations, which have been issued but provides updates of the status of the events that are possible within the next are not yet effective, are applicable to the project to appropriate board committees.
In the event The classification and measurement and group.
These standards and interpretations of a significant increase in credit risk have not been applied in these annual impairment requirements are applied since initial recognition, IFRS 9 requires retrospectively by adjusting the opening financial statements.
The group intends the recognition of lifetime expected balance sheet at the date of initial to comply with these standards from the credit losses.
Impairment measurement application, with no requirement to restate effective dates.
will involve increased complexity and comparative periods.
The group does not significant judgements on areas such intend to restate comparatives.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments as the estimation of probabilities of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was issued Current assessment of classification default, loss given default, unbiased in July 2014 and will replace certain and measurement: future economic scenarios, estimation key elements of IAS 39.
The mandatory ofexpected lives, estimation of The group expects that generally: effective date for IFRS 9 is for annual exposures at default and assessing periods beginning on or after 1 January loans and advances to banks and to whether a significant increase in credit 2018 with early adoption permitted.
customers and non-trading reverse risk has occurred.
repurchase agreements that are IFRS 9 was endorsed by the European IFRS 9 also includes guidance on classified as loans and receivables under Union in November 2016.
The two key hedge accounting.
The general hedge IAS 39 will be measured at amortised elements that would impact the groups accounting requirements aim to simplify cost under IFRS 9, with the exception accounting policies include: hedge accounting, creating a stronger of current investments for which link with risk management strategy classification and measurement of embedded derivatives are recognised and permitting hedge accounting to be financial assets and financial liabilities: separately unless a separate derivative applied to a greater variety of hedging the standard requires that all financial instrument can be recognised, the entire instruments and risks.
The standard does assets be classified as either held at fair loan would be recognised at fair value: not address macro-hedge accounting value through profit or loss, fair value financial assets designated at fair value strategies, which are being considered in through other comprehensive income through profit or loss FVTPL under a separate project.
To remove the risk of or amortised cost.
The amortised cost IAS39 will be measured at FVTPL under any conflict between existing macro-hedge classification is only permitted where it IFRS 9: accounting practice and the new general is held within a business model where certain debt securities held within hedge accounting requirements, IFRS 9 the underlying cash flows are held in the groups credit portfolio may be includes an accounting policy choice to order to collect contractual cash flows reclassified from available-for-sale to remain with IAS 39 hedge accounting.
and that the cash flows arise solely amortised cost.
The remaining debt The group intends to continue applying from payment of principal and interest.
securities classified as available-for-sale IAS 39s hedge accounting, although it will Financial assets which are held within will be measured at fair value through implement the amended IFRS 7 hedge a business model whose objective is other comprehensive income FVOCI accounting disclosure requirements, until achieved by both collecting contractual under IFRS 9: and the macro-hedge accounting project has cash flows and selling financial assets been completed.
equity instruments securities classified and whose contractual cash flows as available-for-sale or FVTPL will be represent solely payments of principal The regulatory capital impact of IFRS9 measured at FVTPL under IFRS 9. and interest will be measured at fair could be affected by changes to the The group continues to assess the impact value through other comprehensive regulatory rules.
The Basel committee of this standard, but expects that the income.
The standard further provides on Banking Supervision is considering recognition and measurement basis of the that gains or losses on assets held at amending the capital rules of IFRS 9, with majority of the groups financial assets will fair value are recognised in the income discussions being held on transitional be largely unchanged on application of statement unless the entity has elected impacts and longer-term changes It IFRS 9. to recognise gains or losses on nonis not clear whether any transitional trading equity investments directly capital arrangements will be in place for through other comprehensive income.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 191 Annual financial statements 04 Accounting policies continued The group is monitoring the IASBs project revenue for obligations as they are The groups income tax charge and to amend IFRS 9 to the effect that basic satisfied.
The standard should be applied balance sheet provision are judgemental in nature.
This arises from certain lending arrangements with symmetrical retrospectively, with certain practical transactions for which the ultimate tax break clauses continue to qualify for expedients available.
The groups current treatment can only be determined by amortised cost accounting.
These clauses measurement and recognition principles final resolution with the relevant local tax are common features in fixed rate loans are aligned to the standard and we do authorities.
The group has recognised in due to market practice and may result not expect an impact to measurement its current tax provision certain amounts in compensation for early termination principles currently applied.
The impact of in respect of taxation that involve a being paid by either the borrower or the the disclosure requirements of the standard degree of estimation and uncertainty group.
The IASB has issued an exposure is currently being assessed.
where the tax treatment cannot finally draft in April 2017 which will be, effective be determined until a resolution has IFRS 16 Leases 1 January2018 in line with IFRS 9s been reached by the relevant tax effective date.
Based on these anticipated In January 2016, the IASB issued authority.
The carrying amount of this amendments, we expect that we can IFRS 16Leases.
The standard is effective provision is sensitive to the resolution of continue to measure the impacted loans at for annual periods beginning on or after issues, which is often dependent on the amortised cost.
1January 2019 and is expected to be timetable and progress of discussion endorsed by the European Union in 2017. and negotiations with the relevant Current assessment of impairments: IFRS 16 results in lessees accounting tax authorities, arbitration process As noted, the group would also shift its for most leases within the scope of the and legal proceedings in the relevant impairment methodology from the current standard in a manner similar to the way tax jurisdictions in which the group incurred loss basis to expected loss.
Issues can take many years in which finance leases are currently Credit risk methodologies have been to resolve and assumptions on the likely accounted for under IAS 17 Leases.
defined and model build and approval is outcome would therefore have to be Lessees will recognise a right of use underway and nearing completion.
Investec made by the group.
asset and a corresponding financial intends to perform a parallel run during liability on the balance sheet.
The asset The nature of any assumptions 2017 and in doing so models and credit will be amortised over the period of the made, when calculating the carrying risk processes will be tested during this lease and the financial liability measured amounts relating to any estimated tax period to embed the changes and help which could be payable as a result of at amortised cost.
Lessor accounting improve the understanding of the new decisions by tax authorities in respect remains substantially the same as in IAS 17. impairmentmodels.
of any such transactions and events The group is currently assessing the impact whose treatment for tax purposes, is of this standard but it is not practicable The group has reviewed key definitions uncertain.
In making any estimates, to quantify the effect as at the date of the such as significant deterioration in credit managements judgement would be quality and default against our current publication of these financial statements.
based on various factors, including any asset quality classifications.
A framework All other standards and interpretations such transactions and events whose is being established that incorporates both issued but not yet effective are not treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Any expected to have a material impact on In making any estimates, managements decisions in relation to credit deterioration thegroup.
judgement has been based on various will be management decisions subject to factors, including: approval by governing bodies.
the current status of tax audits Key management The group will incorporate IFRS 9 andenquiries: requirements into our group credit risk assumptions the current status of discussions classification and provisioning policy.
In preparation of the annual financial andnegotiations with the relevant It will not be practical to disclose reliable statements, the group makes estimations taxauthorities: financial impact estimates until the and applies judgement that could affect the the results of any previous claims: implementation programme and validation reported amount of assets and liabilities and within the next financial year.
Key areas in and testing is further advanced.
The group any changes to the relevant tax which judgement is applied include: intends to disclose this in the 2018 annual environments.
Valuation of unlisted investments in Where appropriate, the group the private equity, direct investments has utilised expert external advice IFRS 15 Revenue from portfolios and embedded derivatives.
as wellas experience of similar Contracts with Customers Key valuation inputs are based on the situationselsewhere in making any most relevant observable market inputs, In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 suchprovisions.
adjusted where necessary for factors Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
that specifically apply to the individual The standard is effective for annual periods Determination of interest income investments and recognising market and interest expense using the beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with volatility effective interest rate method early application permitted.
The standard The determination of impairments against involves judgement in determining was endorsed by the European Union in assets that are carried at amortised cost the timing and extent of future September 2016. and impairments relating to availablecash flows.
IFRS 15 provides a principles-based for-sale financial assets involves the approach for revenue recognition and assessment of future cash flows which is introduces the concept of recognising judgemental in nature 192 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017
