Annual financial statements 04 Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should The group audit committee, together Approval of annual be read in conjunction with the auditors with the Internal Audit department, plays financial statements report set out on page 177, is made with an integral role in matters relating to aview to distinguishing for stakeholders financial and internal control, accounting The directors report which appears therespective responsibilities of the policies, reporting and disclosure.
on pages 170 to 176 was approved directors and of the auditors in relation to To the best of our knowledge and belief, by the board of directors on the special purpose consolidated annual based on the above, the directors are 14June 2017.
The annual financial financial statements.
satisfied that no material breakdown in the statements of the company, which operation of the system of internal control are set out on pages 261 to 269, The directors are responsible for the and procedures has occurred during the were approved by the board of preparation, integrity and objectivity of year under review.
The the special purpose consolidated annual special purpose consolidated financial statements that fairly present the The group consistently adopts appropriate annual financial statements of the state of affairs of the company and the and recognised accounting policies group on pages 179 to 260 were group at the end of the financial year and and these are supported by reasonable approved by the board of directors the net income and cash flows for the judgements and estimates on a consistent on 14 June 2017. year, and other information contained in basis and provides additional disclosures thisreport.
when compliance with the specific The directors are responsible for the requirements in International Financial To enable the directors to meet these maintenance and integrity of the corporate Reporting Standards IFRS are insufficient responsibilities: and financial information included on the to enable users to understand the impact companies website.
Legislation in the The board and management set of particular transactions, other events and United Kingdom governing the preparation standards and management implements conditions on the groups financial position and dissemination of the annual financial systems of internal controls and and financial performance.
statements may differ from legislation in accounting and information systems The special purpose consolidated annual other jurisdictions.
aimed at providing reasonable financial statements have been prepared in assurance that assets are safeguarded Signed on behalf of the board accordance with accounting policies set and the risk of fraud, error or loss is out on pages 184 to 192. reduced in a cost-effective manner.
These controls, contained in established The directors are of the opinion, based policies and procedures, include the on their knowledge of the company, proper delegation of responsibilities key processes in operation and specific Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor and authorities within a clearly defined enquiries that adequate resources exist Chief executive officer Managing director framework, effective accounting to support the group on a going concern procedures and adequate segregation basisover the next year.
These annual 14 June 2017 of duties financial statements have been prepared onthat basis.
The groups internal audit function, which operates unimpeded and It is the responsibility of the independent independently from operational auditors to report on the special purpose management, and has unrestricted consolidated annual financial statements.
access to the group audit committee, Their report to the members of the appraises and, when necessary, company is set out on page 177 of this recommends improvements in the report.
As far as the directors are aware, system of internal controls and there is no relevant audit information of accounting practices, based on audit which the companys auditors are unaware.
plans that take cognisance of the All steps which ought to have been taken relative degrees of risk of each function as directors have been completed in order or aspect of the business to be aware of the relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
170 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017
