INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 137 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 4.
Risk of fraud in revenue recognition refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 114 Different business models apply in each of the We obtained an understanding of the different revenue Groups businesses as a result of different regulatory streams and revenue models across the Group.
In environments and relationship models between particular, we focused on the newly acquired Al Noor the hospitals and funders.
The Groups accounting business more broadly as it conforms its accounting policies in respect of revenue recognition are and commercial practices with the rest of the Group not considered to present a significant risk of and on a specific Al Noor business unit that was subject misstatement due to the simple nature of the to an earn-out.
underlying transactions and related processes.
However, as with any audit an inherent risk exists We evaluated the relevant controls in the revenue cycle.
that revenue may be overstated due to fraud as a We used computer assisted auditing techniques or result of incentives to achieve certain performance tests of details to test settled transactions from source targets driven mainly by revenue.
We tested unusual journal entries impacting revenue and accounts receivable.
We performed tests of details on adjustments recorded to reported revenue.
We tested unsettled transactions substantively through testing of receipts subsequent to year-end, confirmation of claims with medical insurers or patient file testing to check that the underlying service happened prior to year-end.
We obtained an understanding of the process followed by management to identify impaired receivable balances and performed an independent assessment of the provision calculated by management by evaluating the results of claim audits by medical insurers, historical information and ageing analyses.
We performed analytical procedures designed to identify unusual trends in revenue recognition and pricing of services, including an assessment of insurance rejections.
Based on the procedures performed, we have identified no material adjustments.
138 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT HOW WE TAILORED THE AUDIT SCOPE We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a whole, taking into account the geographic structure of the Group, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which the Group operates.
The Group financial statements are a consolidation of eight reporting units which comprise sub-consolidations of the operations in each of the Groups key markets.
The South Africa, Switzerland and Dubai reporting units required an audit of their complete financial information due to their size.
Audits were also performed over the complete financial information of three other reporting units Abu Dhabi, being the legacy Al Noor business, the Mediclinic International plc parent company and Spire to give appropriate audit coverage and to focus on specific risks associated with the acquisition of Al Noor and Spire in the prior financial year given the need to finalise the provisional purchase price accounting in the current financial year.
Taken together, reporting units where we performed audit work over the complete financial information accounted for 93% of consolidated revenue and 92% of consolidated profit before tax.
We separately performed specified procedures at two further reporting units meaning that our audit covered all reporting units that individually contributed more than 1% to the Groups revenue and 3% to profit before tax.
In addition, we instructed the component auditor at Spire, the one reporting unit with a non co-terminous yearend to the rest of the Group, to undertake subsequent event review procedures over the lag period of account.
In establishing the overall approach to the Group audit, we determined the type of work that needed to be performed at the reporting units by us, as the Group engagement team, or by component auditors from other PwC network firms or, in the case of Spire, other audit firms operating under our instruction.
Where the work was performed by component auditors, we determined the level of involvement we needed to have in the audit work at those reporting units to be able to conclude whether sufficient appropriate audit evidence had been obtained as a basis for our opinion on the financial statements as a whole.
Recognising that not every business in each of the eight reporting units which comprise the Groups consolidated results and financial position is included in our Group audit scope, we considered as part of our Group audit oversight responsibility what audit coverage has been obtained in aggregate by our component teams by reference to business components at which audit work has been undertaken.
We visited our component teams in South Africa, Switzerland and the UAE, which included file reviews, attendance at key audit meetings with local management and participation in audit clearance meetings at each reporting unit.
We also had regular dialogue with our component audit teams at each key reporting unit and with Spires auditor.
Further specific audit procedures over the Group consolidation and review procedures over the Annual Report and Financial Statements disclosures were directly led by the Group audit team.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 139 MATERIALITY The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality.
We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality.
These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and on the financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Overall group materiality 14.9 million 2016: 13 million.
How we determined it Approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Rationale for benchmark applied We believe that profit before tax is a primary measure used by the shareholders in assessing the performance of the Group and is a generally accepted auditing benchmark.
Component materiality For each component in our audit scope, we allocated a materiality that was less than overall group audit materiality.
The range of materiality allocated to each reporting unit was between 1.5 million and 12 million.
The materiality used for the audit of the parent company was 12 million.
Certain components were audited to a local statutory audit materiality that was also less than our overall group materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them misstatements identified during our audit above 0.7 million 2016: 0.7 million as well as misstatements below that amount that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
GOING CONCERN Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement, set out on page 129, in relation to going concern.
We have nothing to report having performed our review.
Under ISAs UK & Ireland, we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to the directors statement about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
As noted in the directors statement, the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern basis presumes that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operation, and that the directors intend it to do so, for at least one year from the date the financial statements were signed.
As part of our audit, we have concluded that the directors use of the going concern basis is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, these statements are not a guarantee of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
140 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have no exceptions to report.
information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
the statement given by the directors on page 129, in We have no exceptions to report.
accordance with provision C. 1.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, that they consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for members to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy is materially inconsistent with our knowledge of the Group acquired in the course of performing our audit.
We have no exceptions to report.
the section of the Annual Report and Financial Statements on page 114, as required by provision C. 3.8 of the Code, describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the Audit Committee.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 141 THE DIRECTORS ASSESSMENT OF THE PROSPECTS OF THE GROUP AND OF THE PRINCIPAL RISKS THAT WOULD THREATEN THE SOLVENCY OR LIQUIDITY OF THE GROUP Under ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if we have anything material to add or to draw attention to in relation to: We have nothing material to add or to the directors confirmation on pages 30 to 36 of the draw attention to.
Annual Report and Financial Statements, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code, that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
the disclosures in the Annual Report and Financial We have nothing material to add or to draw attention to.
Statements that describe those risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated.
the directors explanation on page 35 of the Annual Report We have nothing material to add or to and Financial Statements, in accordance with provision draw attention to.
C. 2.2 of the Code, how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate and their statement whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the directors statement that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group and the directors statement in relation to the longer-term viability of the Group.
Our review was substantially less in scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and considering the directors process supporting their statements: checking that the statements are in alignment with the relevant provisions of the Code: and considering whether the statements are consistent with the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing our audit.
ADEQUACY OF INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to ten further provisions of the Code.
142 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 129, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and ISAs UK & Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We primarily focus our work in these areas by assessing the directors judgements against available evidence, forming our own judgements and evaluating the disclosures in the financial statements.
We test and examine information, using sampling and other auditing techniques, to the extent we consider necessary to provide a reasonable basis for us to draw conclusions.
We obtain audit evidence through testing the effectiveness of controls, substantive procedures or a combination of both.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors Report, we consider whether those reports include the disclosures required by applicable legal requirements.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Mediclinic International plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 143 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as a t 31 March 2017 GROUP 2017 2016 Notes m m ASSETS Non-current assets 6353 5618 Property, equipment and vehicles 6 3703 3199 Intangible assets 7 2156 1941 Equity accounted investments 8 465 455 Other investments and loans 9 8 6 Derivative financial instruments 20 1 Deferred income tax assets 10 21 16 Current assets 1069 931 Inventories 11 90 75 Trade and other receivables 12 591 547 Other investments and loans 9 16 Current income tax assets 2 2 Derivative financial instruments 20 2 Cash and cash equivalents 28.8 361 305 Assets classified as held for sale 32 9 Total assets 7422 6549 EQUITY Capital and reserves Share capital 13 74 74 Share premium reserve 13 690 690 Treasury shares 13 2 2 Retained earnings 5525 5320 Other reserves 14 2201 2573 Attributable to equity holders of the Company 4086 3509 Non-controlling interests 16 78 61 Total equity 4164 3570 LIABILITIES Non-current liabilities 2668 2192 Borrowings 17 1961 1524 Deferred income tax liabilities 10 527 446 Retirement benefit obligations 18 154 179 Provisions 19 23 24 Derivative financial instruments 20 2 19 Cash-settled share-based payment liability 15 1 Current liabilities 590 787 Trade and other payables 21 472 431 Borrowings 17 69 317 Provisions 19 22 19 Retirement benefit obligations 18 10 9 Derivative financial instruments 20 7 1 Current income tax liabilities 8 10 Liabilities classified as held for sale 32 2 Total liabilities 3258 2979 Total equity and liabilities 7422 6549 These financial statements and the accompanying notes were approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017 and were signed on its behalf by: DP Meintjes PJ Myburgh Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Mediclinic International plc Company no 08338604 144 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 March 2017 GROUP 2017 2016 Notes m m Revenue 2749 2107 Cost of sales 22 1696 1264 Administration and other operating expenses 22 689 554 Other gains and losses 23 2 1 Operating profit 362 288 Finance income 7 9 Finance cost 24 74 58 Share of net profit of equity accounted investments 8 12 6 Profit before tax 307 245 Income tax expense 25 64 55 Profit for the year 243 190 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 229 177 Non-controlling interests 14 13 243 190 Earnings per ordinary share attributable to the equity holders of the Company pence Basic 26 31.0 29.6 Diluted 26 31.0 29.5 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 145 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 March 2017 GROUP 2017 2016 Notes m m Profit for the year 243 190 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to the income statement Currency translation differences 27 388 92 Fair value adjustment cash flow hedges 27 2 388 94 Items that may not be reclassified to the income statement Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 27 34 56 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 27 422 38 Total comprehensive income for the year 665 228 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 635 224 Non-controlling interests 30 4 665 228 146 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 147 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 March 2017 GROUP ShareForeign Attributable Capital Share Reverse based currency to equity NonShare redemption premium acquisition Treasury payment translation Hedging holders of controlling capital reserve reserve reserve shares reserve reserve reserve Retained the interests Total note 13 note 13 note 13 note 13 note 13 note 14 note 14 note 14 earnings Company note 16 equity m m m m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 April 2015 994 22 14 306 2 485 1779 61 1840 Profit for the year 177 177 13 190 Other comprehensive income loss for the year 101 2 56 47 9 38 Total comprehensive income for the year 101 2 121 224 4 228 Shares issued August 2015 479 479 479 Share issue costs August 2015 4 4 4 Reverse acquisition 1402 6 4862 3014 6 446 446 Share subscription February 2016 7 593 600 600 Reduction of share premium 4765 4765 Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts 21 21 21 Treasury shares purchased Forfeitable Share Plan 1 1 1 Share-based payment expense 10 10 10 Transactions with non-controlling shareholders 3 3 3 6 Dividends paid 48 48 7 55 Balance at 31 March 2016 74 6 690 3014 2 24 407 4 5320 3509 61 3570 Profit for the year 229 229 14 243 Other comprehensive income for the year 372 34 406 16 422 Total comprehensive income for the year 372 263 635 30 665 Transactions with non-controlling shareholders 4 4 4 Dividends paid 62 62 9 71 Balance at 31 March 2017 74 6 690 3014 2 24 779 4 5525 4086 78 4164 148 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year ended 31 March 2017 GROUP 2017 2016 m m Inflow Inflow Notes outflow outflow CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash received from customers 2735 2078 Cash paid to suppliers and employees 2226 1667 Cash generated from operations 28.1 509 411 Interest received 7 9 Interest paid 28.2 77 55 Tax paid 28.3 45 45 Net cash generated from operating activities 394 320 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES 218 1549 Investment to maintain operations 28.4 109 72 Investment to expand operations 28.5 140 114 Business combinations Al Noor acquisition 29 17 Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares repurchased 29 530 Special dividend to existing Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shareholders 29 383 Proceeds on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 31 44 Acquisition of investment in associate 8 & 30 1 446 Dividends received from equity accounted investment 4 2 Proceeds from money market funds 10 Acquisition of other investment and loans 16 Net cash generated utilised before financing activities 176 1229 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 169 1242 Proceeds of shares issued 13 479 Share issue costs 13 4 Share subscription 13 600 Distributions to non-controlling interests 16 9 7 Distributions to shareholders 28.6 62 48 Proceeds from borrowings 28.7 247 302 Repayment of borrowings 28.7 327 85 Refinancing transaction costs 3 6 Settlement of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc share option scheme 2 Shares purchased Forfeitable Share Plan 1 Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 12 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 16 15 2 Proceeds on disposal of non-controlling interest 4 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 7 13 Opening balance of cash and cash equivalents 305 265 Exchange rate fluctuations on foreign cash 49 27 Closing balance of cash and cash equivalents 28.8 361 305 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS f or the year ended 31 March 2017 1.
DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Mediclinic International plc is a private hospital group with three operating platforms in Southern Africa South Africa and Namibia, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates and with an equity investment in the UK.
Its core purpose is to enhance the quality of life of patients by providing cost-effective acute care specialised hospital services.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.
2.1 Basis of preparation The consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, including IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost convention, except for the following items which are carried at fair value or valued using another measurement basis: Derivative financial assets and liabilities and available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value Retirement benefit obligations that are measured in terms of the projected unit credit method Liabilities for cash-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value.
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.
Functional and presentation currency The consolidated financial statements and financial information are presented in pound the presentation currency, rounded to the nearest million.
The functional currency of the majority of the Group's entities, and the currencies of the primary economic environments in which they operate, is the South African rand, Swiss franc and United Arab Emirates dirham.
The United Arab Emirates dirham is pegged against the United States dollar at a rate of 3.6725 per US Dollar.
Exchange rates The Group uses the average of exchange rates prevailing during the period to translate the results and cash flows of overseas subsidiaries, the joint venture and associated undertakings into pound and periodend rates to translate the net assets of those undertakings.
The following exchange rates were applicable during the period: GROUP 2017 2016 Average rates: Swiss franc 1.29 1.47 UAE dirham 4.80 5.54 South African rand 18.41 20.73 Period end rates: Swiss franc 1.25 1.38 UAE dirham 4.59 5.28 South African rand 16.74 21.21 Going concern Having assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the viability statement, the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
150 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.2 Consolidation and equity accounting a Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of acquisition until control is lost.
Adjustments to the financial statements of subsidiaries are made when necessary to bring their accounting policies in line with those of the Group.
All intra-company transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries are identified and recognised separately from the Groups interest therein, and are recognised within equity.
Losses of subsidiaries attributable to non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interest even if this results in a debit balance being recognised.
Transactions which result in changes in ownership levels, where the Company has control of the subsidiary both before and after the transaction are regarded as equity transactions and are recognised directly in the statement of changes in equity.
The difference between the fair value of consideration paid or received and the movement in noncontrolling interest for such transactions is recognised in equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
Where a subsidiary is disposed of and a non-controlling shareholding is retained, the remaining investment is measured to fair value with the adjustment to fair value recognised in profit or loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal of the controlling interest.
Reverse acquisition accounting On 14 October 2015, the Board of Directors of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and the independent Board of Directors of Mediclinic International Limited announced that they had reached an agreement on the terms of a recommended combination of their respective businesses the Combination.
Given the relative size of Al Noor and Mediclinic, the Combination has been classified as a reverse takeover in terms of IFRS 3, based on the analysis of the voting rights after the combination and the composition of the Board of Directors.
For the purpose of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Combination was also classified as a reverse takeover.
On 15 February 2016, the entire share capital of Mediclinic International Limited was acquired by Al Noor Hopitals Group plc pursuant to the Mediclinic Scheme.
Al Noor Hospitals Group plc acquired all of the Mediclinic Shares that were not repurchased and cancelled by Mediclinic in the Repurchase Option.
Mediclinic Shareholders were entitled to receive 0.625 new shares for every Mediclinic share held.
Al Noor Hospitals Group plc has remained the holding company of the Enlarged Group and has been renamed to Mediclinic International plc.
Mediclinic International plc wholly owns the Al Noor Hospitals Group and the Mediclinic Group, as well as the 29.9 per cent interest in Spire Heathcare plc, which was acquired by Mediclinic International Limited in August 2015.
Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements are issued in the name of Mediclinic International plc previously Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, but are a continuation of the consolidated financial statements of Mediclinic International Limited.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations, the financial statements of Mediclinic International Limited, including comparative information, have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the legal capital position of Mediclinic International plc.
For further details, refer to note 29.
A capital redemption reserve and a reverse acquisition reserve were created refer to note 13.
Al Noors results have been consolidated in the consolidated financial statements from the effective date of the acquisition, 15 February 2016.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 151 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.2 Consolidation and equity accounting continued b Business combinations The Group accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the business combination is measured as the aggregate of the fair values of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed and equity instruments issued.
Costs directly attributable to the business combination are expensed as incurred, except the costs to issue debt that are amortised as part of the effective interest and costs to issue equity, which are included in equity.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is recognised at fair value at the acquisition date.
Subsequent changes to the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an asset or liability is recognised in accordance with IAS 39 in profit or loss.
Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
The acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the recognition conditions of IFRS 3 Business Combinations are recognised at their fair values at acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal company that are classified as held-for-sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held-for-sale and Discontinued Operations, which are recognised at fair value less costs to sell.
Contingent liabilities are only included in the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree where there is a present obligation at acquisition date.
On acquisition, the Group assesses the classification of the acquiree's assets and liabilities and reclassifies them where the classification is inappropriate for Group purposes.
This excludes lease agreements and insurance contracts, whose classification remains as per their inception date.
Non-controlling interests arising from a business combination, which are present ownership interests, and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation, are measured either at the present ownership interests' proportionate share in the recognised amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets or at fair value.
The treatment is not an accounting policy choice but is selected for each individual business combination, and disclosed in the note for business combinations.
All other components of non-controlling interests are measured at their acquisition date fair values, unless another measurement basis is required by IFRSs.
In cases where the Company held a non-controlling shareholding in the acquiree prior to obtaining control, that interest is measured to fair value as at acquisition date.
The measurement to fair value is included in profit or loss for the year.
Where the existing shareholding was classified as an available-for-sale financial asset, the cumulative fair value adjustments recognised previously to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are recognised in profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment.
Goodwill is determined as the consideration paid, plus the fair value of any shareholding held prior to obtaining control, plus non-controlling interest and less the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquiree.
If the total of consideration transferred, non-controlling interest recognised and previously held interest measured is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested on an annual basis for impairment.
If goodwill is assessed to be impaired, that impairment is not subsequently reversed.
Goodwill arising on acquisition of foreign entities is considered an asset of the foreign entity.
In such cases the goodwill is translated to the functional currency of the Company at the end of each reporting period with the adjustment recognised in equity through other comprehensive income.
152 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.2 Consolidation and equity accounting continued c Investment in associates and joint ventures Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
Investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the equity accounted investments are initially recognised at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the post-acquisition profits or losses and movements in other comprehensive income.
Dividends received or receivable from equity accounted investments are recognised as a reduction in the carrying amount of the investment.
The Groups investments in associates and joint ventures include goodwill identified on acquisition.
When the Groups share of losses in an associate or joint venture equals or exceeds its interests in the investment which includes any long-term interests that, in substance, form part of the Groups net investment, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the entity.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its equity accounted investments are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in these investments.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of the equity accounted investments have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
If the ownership interest in an equity accounted investment is reduced but significant influence or joint control is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss where appropriate.
The Groups share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognised in the income statement, and its share of post-acquisition movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other comprehensive income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the investment.
The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the equity accounted investment is impaired.
If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the investment and its carrying value and recognises the amount adjacent to share of profit or loss of the investment in the income statement.
2.3 Segment reporting Consistent with internal reporting, the Group's segments are identified as the three geographical operating platforms in Mediclinic Southern Africa, Mediclinic Switzerland, Mediclinic Middle East.
The United Kingdom and Corporate segments are additional non-operating segments.
The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating resources and assessing performance of the segments, has been identified as the Executive Committee that makes strategic decisions.
The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors.
2.4 Property, equipment and vehicles Land and buildings comprise mainly hospitals and offices.
All property, equipment and vehicles are shown at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment, except for land, which is shown at cost less impairment.
Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
All other repairs and maintenance costs are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
Depreciation on the other assets is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate the cost less its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: Buildings: 10 100 years Equipment: 3 10 years Furniture and vehicles: 3 8 years NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 153 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.4 Property, equipment and vehicles continued The assets residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at each statement of financial position date.
Refer to note 2.6 for impairment of property, equipment and vehicles.
An asset is derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected from use.
Profit or loss on disposals is determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts.
These are included in the income statement.
2.5 Intangible assets a Trade names Trade names have been recognised by the Group as part of a business combination.
No value is placed on internally developed trade names.
Trade names that are deemed to have an indefinite useful life are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Trade names that are deemed to have a finite useful life are capitalised at the cost to the Group and amortised on the straight-line basis over its estimated useful lifetime of 1 to 20 years 2016: 5 to 20 years.
Expenditure to maintain trade names is accounted for against income as incurred.
b Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition and the fair value of the non-controlling interest in the subsidiary.
Goodwill on acquisition of subsidiaries is included in intangible assets.
Goodwill on acquisition of associates and joint ventures is included in investments in associates and joint ventures.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment.
Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the entity sold.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units CGUs for the purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from business combinations in which goodwill arose.
Management monitors goodwill for impairment at an operating segment level.
Any impairment losses that are recognised are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of other assets on a pro rata basis.
c Computer software Acquired computer software licences are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring to use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over their estimated useful lives 1 5 years using the straight-line method.
Internally developed computer software that is clearly associated with an identifiable and unique system, which will be controlled by the Group and have a probable future economic benefit beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Costs associated with maintaining computer software or development expenditure that does not meet the recognition criteria are recognised as an expense as incurred.
2.6 Impairment of non-financial assets Assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
The recoverable amount is calculated by estimating future cash benefits that will result from each asset and discounting those cash benefits at an appropriate discount rate.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows CGUs.
Non-financial assets other than goodwill that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date.
154 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.7 Financial assets The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: loans and receivables, available-for-sale financial assets and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
The classification depends on the purpose for which the asset was acquired.
Management determines the classification of its investments at initial recognition.
Purchases and sales of investments are recognised on trade date the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Investments are initially recognised at fair value plus transaction costs for all financial assets not subsequently carried at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Loans and receivables are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months after the reporting date, which are classified as non-current assets.
Loans and receivables are carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less provision for impairment.
Investments available-for-sale Other long-term investments are classified as available-for-sale and are included within non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within 12 months of the reporting date.
These investments are carried at fair value.
Unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of available-for-sale investments are recognised in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
When available-for-sale investments are either sold or impaired, the accumulated fair value adjustments are realised and included in profit or loss.
Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss These instruments, consisting of financial instruments held-for-trading and those designated at fair value through profit and loss at inception, are carried at fair value.
Derivatives are also classified as held-fortrading unless they are designated as hedges.
Realised and unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of these financial instruments are recognised in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
Impairment At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired.
A financial asset is impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and that loss has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset that can be reliably estimated.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, evidence of impairment may include indications that the receivables or a group of receivables is experiencing significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation, and where observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults.
The amount of the provision for impairment is the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The movement in the provision is recognised in the income statement.
In the case of available-for-sale financial assets, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the asset below its cost is considered an indicator that the investments are impaired.
If any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset previously recognised in profit or loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 155 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.8 Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, the legal enforceable right is not contingent of a future event and is enforceable in the normal course of business even in the event of default, bankruptcy and insolvency, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
2.9 Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost, determined on the weighted average method, or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less applicable variable selling expenses.
2.10 Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The amount of the provision is recognised in the income statement.
2.11 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents consist of balances with banks and cash on hand and are classified as loans and receivables.
Bank overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost and are disclosed as part of borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position.
2.12 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently measured at fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if so, the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised liability or a highly probable forecast transaction is designated as a cash flow hedge.
The Group uses interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges.
The Group documents, at inception of the transaction, the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting cash flows of hedged items.
The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging purposes are disclosed in note 20.
The hedging reserve in shareholders' equity is shown in note 14.
On the statement of financial position hedging derivatives are not classified based on whether the amount is expected to be recovered or settled within, or after, 12 months.
The full fair value of a hedging derivative is classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is more than 12 months: it is classified as a current asset or liability when the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than 12 months.
Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that is designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income statement.
Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled to the income statement in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss for example, when the interest expense on hedged variable rate borrowings is recognised in profit and loss.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the income statement.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately transferred to the income statement.
156 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.13 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Shares in the Company held by wholly-owned Group companies are classified as treasury shares and are held at cost.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds, net of tax.
2.14 Treasury shares Treasury shares are deducted from equity until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of.
No gains or losses are recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of treasury shares.
All consideration paid or received for treasury shares is recognised directly in equity.
2.15 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Accounts payable is classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer.
If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
2.16 Borrowings Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting date.
Borrowing costs are expensed when incurred, except for borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying assets.
Borrowing cost directly attributable to the construction or acquisition of qualifying assets is added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
A qualifying asset is an asset that necessarily takes a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use.
2.17 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made.
Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
2.18 Current and deferred income tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in the countries where the Group and its subsidiaries operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.
It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Deferred income tax is recognised, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill: deferred income tax is not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 157 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.18 Current and deferred income tax continued Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income tax liabilities where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
2.19 Employee benefits a Retirement benefit costs The Group provides defined benefit and defined contribution plans for the benefit of employees, the assets of which are held in separate trustee administered funds.
These plans are funded by payments from the employees and the Group, taking into account recommendations of independent qualified actuaries.
Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
Each members fund value is directly linked to the contributions and the related investment returns.
The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to make further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due.
Defined benefit plans This plan defines an amount of pension benefit an employee will receive on retirement, dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.
The liability recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
Past service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.
A net pension asset is recorded only to the extent that it does not exceed the present value of any economic benefit available in the form of reductions in future contributions to the plan, and any unrecognised actuarial losses and past service costs.
The annual pension costs of the Groups benefit plans are charged to the income statement.
Incurred interest costs income on the defined benefit obligations are recognised as wages and salaries.
b Post-retirement medical benefits Some Group companies provide for post-retirement medical contributions in relation to current and retired employees.
The expected costs of these benefits are accounted for by using the projected unit credit method.
Under this method, the expected costs of these benefits are accumulated over the service lives of the employees.
Valuation of these obligations is carried out by independent qualified actuaries.
All actuarial gains and losses are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
158 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.19 Employee benefits continued c Equity-settled share-based compensation The Group operates a equity-settled, share-based compensation plan, under which the entity receives services from employees as consideration for equity instruments options of the Company.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted: including any market performance conditions: excluding the impact of any service and non-market performance vesting conditions: and including the impact of any non-vesting conditions.
At the end of each reporting period, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest based on the non-market vesting conditions and service conditions.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
d Cash-settled share-based compensation The Group operates cash-settled share-based compensation plans.
The Group recognises the value of the services received expense, and the liabilities to pay for those services, as the employees render service.
The liabilities are measured, initially, and at each reporting date until settled, at the fair value appropriate to the scheme, taking into account the terms and conditions on which the rights were granted, and the extent to which the employees have rendered service to date, excluding the impact of any non-market-related vesting conditions.
Non-market-related vesting conditions are included in the assumptions regarding the number of units expected to vest.
These assumptions are revised at the end of each reporting period.
All changes to the fair value of the liability are recognised in the income statement.
e Profit sharing and bonus plans The Group recognises a liability and an expense where a contractual obligation exist for short-term incentives.
The amounts payable to employees in respect of the short-term incentive schemes are determined based on annual business performance targets.
2.20 Revenue recognition Revenues are measured at the fair value of the consideration that has been received or is to be received and represent the amounts that can be received for services in the regular course of business when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred or services have been rendered.
Discounts, sales taxes and other taxes associated with the revenues have to be deducted.
Revenue primarily comprises fees charged for inpatient and outpatient hospital services.
Services include charges for accommodation, theatre, medical professional services, equipment, radiology, laboratory and pharmaceutical goods used.
Revenue is recorded and recognised during the period in which the hospital service is provided, based upon the amounts due from patients and or medical funding entities.
Fees are calculated and billed based on various tariff agreements with funders.
Discounts comprise retrospective volume discounts granted to certain customers on attainment of certain levels of purchases from the Group.
These are accrued over the course of the arrangement based on estimates of the level of business expected and are adjusted at the end of the arrangement to reflect actual volumes.
In Switzerland, medical services can on occasion be charged based on provisional tariffs as delays can occur in the agreement of tariffs between providers including the Group and funders.
When tariffs have not yet been agreed, tariff provisions are recognised as adjustments in revenue to reflect any uncertainty about collectability of amounts invoiced.
Revenue continues to be recognised in these circumstances as the Group has developed significant historical experience of continuing to collect revenue for delivered services where tariff negotiations have not concluded with all relevant authorities.
However, a tariff provision will be recorded when the Group identifies any uncertainty around collection of amounts invoiced for delivered services and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required, which can be reliably estimated.
The provision is calculated on the basis of historical experience of outcomes to negotiations between providers and funders and this historical experience is subject to regular reassessment based on the actual outcome to tariff negotiations.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 159 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.20 Revenue recognition continued Other revenues earned are recognised on the following bases: a Interest income Interest income is recognised on a time-proportioned basis using the effective interest rate method.
b Rental income Rental income, which is insignificant, is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
With the exception of interest income, all the items above are presented as revenue.
2.21 Cost of sales Cost of sales consists of the cost of inventories, including obsolete stock, which have been expensed during the year, together with personnel costs and related overheads which are directly attributable to the provision of services.
2.22 Leased assets Leases of property, equipment and vehicles where the Group assumes substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges so as to achieve a constant rate on the finance balance outstanding.
The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are included in borrowings.
The interest element of the finance charges is charged to the income statement over the lease period.
The property, equipment and vehicles acquired under finance leasing contracts are depreciated over the useful lives of the assets or the term of the lease agreement if shorter and transfer of ownership at the end of the lease period is uncertain.
Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases net of any incentives received from the lessor are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.
2.23 Dividend distribution Dividends are recorded in the Group's financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the Company's Board of Directors.
2.24 Foreign currency transactions Transactions and balances Foreign currency transactions are translated into the respective Group entities functional currencies at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at year end exchange rates, are recognised in the income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive income as part of qualifying cash flow hedges.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the transaction date, and those measured at fair value are translated at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Exchange rate differences on non-monetary items are accounted for based on the classification of the underlying items.
Translation differences on non-monetary financial assets classified as available-for-sale, are included in other comprehensive income.
Foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in the income statement within Administration and other operating expenses.
160 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.24 Foreign currency transactions continued Group entities The results and financial position of all foreign operations that have a functional currency that is different from the Groups presentation currency are translated into the presentation currency as follows: Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate at the reporting date.
Income and expenses for each income statement are translated at average exchange rates for the year.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
On consolidation exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations are taken directly to other comprehensive income.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at closing rates at the reporting date.
2.25 Standards, interpretations and amendments Published standards, amendments and interpretations effective for the 31 March 2017 financial period: The following published standards, amendments and interpretations are mandatory for the accounting period beginning on or after 1 April 2016 and have been adopted: IFRS 10, IFRS 12 and IAS 28 Investment entities amendments Applying the consolidation exception IFRS 11 amendments Joint arrangements IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts IAS 1 amendments Disclosure initiative IAS 16 and IAS 38 amendments Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation IAS 16 and IAS 41 amendments Agriculture: bearer plants IAS 27 amendment Equity method in separate financial statements Annual improvements 2012 2014 cycle Amendments and clarifications to existing IFRS standards The implementation of these standards and amendments had no financial impact on the reported results or financial position of the Group.
Published standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and not early adopted: The following new standards, amendments and interpretations are expected to have an impact on the financial statements in the period of initial application.
Based on initial assessments, management expects the new standards to mainly affect presentation and disclosure of the financial statements, with the exception of IFRS 16: Leases which is expected to have a material impact and will be evaluated during 2018.
IFRS 9: Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 The new standard improves and simplifies the approach for classification and measurement of financial assets compared with the requirements of IAS 39.
IFRS 9 applies a consistent approach to classifying financial assets and replaces the numerous categories of financial assets in IAS 39, each of which had its own classification criteria.
IFRS 9 also results in one impairment method, replacing the numerous impairment methods in IAS 39 that arise from the different classification categories.
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 The new standard requires companies to recognise revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers, that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services.
The new standard will also result in enhanced disclosures about revenue, and provides guidance for transactions that were not previously addressed comprehensively and improves guidance for multiple-element arrangements.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 161 2.
SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES continued 2.25 Standards, interpretations and amendments continued Published standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective and not early adopted: continued IFRS 16: Leases 1 January 2019 The new standard addresses the definition of a lease, recognition and measurement of leases and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the leasing activities of both lessees and lessors.
A key change arising from IFRS 16 is that most operating leases will be accounted for on balance sheet for lessees.
The standard replaces IAS 17 Leases', and related interpretations.
The following new accounting standards, interpretations and amendments will have no material impact on the financial statements: IAS 7 amendment Disclosure initiative 1 January 2017 IAS 12 amendment Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses 1 January 2017 IFRS 2 amendment Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions 1 January 2018 IFRS 4 Clarification on the implementation approach together with IFRS 9 1 January 2018 IAS 40 Transfers of investment property 1 January 2018 IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance consideration 1 January 2018 Annual improvements 2014 2016 cycle Amendments and clarifications to existing IFRS standards 1 January 2017 and 1 January 2018 IFRS 10 and IAS 28 amendments Sale or contribution of assets between an investor and its associate or joint venture postponed 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 3.1 Financial risk factors In respect of the Group's financial instruments, normal business activities expose the Group to a variety of financial risks: market risk including currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk management programme seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
a Market risk i Currency risk Investments in foreign operations The Group has investments in foreign operations, whose net assets are exposed to foreign currency translation risk.
Currency exposure arising from the net assets of the Groups foreign operations is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies.
Changes in the pound Swiss franc, pound UAE dirham and pound South African rand exchange rate over a period of time result in increased decreased earnings.
Other than the Group's earnings and payment of dividends which are presented and declared in pound and thus exposed to currency risk, the Group is not significantly exposed to currency risk since the operating platforms predominantly operates in its local currency including its debt.
In the case of corporate offshore transactions and or cross-border business combinations, generally forward cover contracts are considered or taken out to minimize foreign currency risk.
Currently there are no forward cover contracts in place.
The impact of a 10% change in the pound Swiss franc, pound South African rand and the pound UAE dirham exchange rates for a sustained period of one year is: profit for the period would increase decrease by 14m 31 March 2016: increase decrease by 11m due to exposure to the GBP Swiss franc exchange rate: profit for the period would increase decrease by 2m 31 March 2016: increase decrease by 6m due to exposure to the GBP UAE dirham exchange rate: profit for the period would increase decrease by 8m 31 March 2016: increase decrease by 7m due to exposure to the GBP South African Rand exchange rate: 162 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3.1 Financial risk factors continued a Market risk continued i Currency risk continued Investments in foreign operations continued foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 196m 2016: increase decrease by 112m due to exposure to the GBP Swiss franc exchange rate: foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 154m 2016: increase decrease by 24m due to exposure to the GBP UAE dirham exchange rate: and foreign currency translation reserve would increase decrease by 6m 2016: increase decrease by 12m due to exposure to the GBP South African rand exchange rate.
ii Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings as well as short-term deposits.
Borrowings and short-term deposits issued at variable rates expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk.
Interest rate derivatives expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
Group policy is to maintain an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings and placings.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by using floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps.
Such interest rate swaps have the economic effect of converting borrowings from floating rates to fixed rates.
Generally, the Group raises long-term borrowings at floating rates and swaps them into fixed rates.
Under the interest rate swaps, the Group agrees with other parties to exchange, at specified intervals primarily quarterly, the difference between fixed contract rates and floating-rate interest amounts calculated by reference to the agreed notional amounts.
In respect of financial assets, interest rate risk is managed by using approved counterparties that offer the best rates.
With the interest rate swap agreements the Group entered into to mitigate interest rate risk, the Group did not consider there to be a significant concentration of interest rate risk.
Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments at the reporting date and the stipulated change taking place at the beginning of the financial year and held constant throughout the reporting period in the case of instruments that have floating rates.
If interest rates had been 25 basis points higher lower and all other variables were held constant, the Groups: profit for the period would increase decrease by 3m 2016: increase decrease by 3m.
This is mainly attributable to the Groups exposure to interest rates on its unhedged variable rate borrowings and cash.
iii Other price risk The Group is not materially exposed to commodity or any other price risk.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 163 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3.1 Financial risk factors continued b Credit risk Financial assets that potentially subject the Group to concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash, short-term deposits and trade and other receivables and derivative financial contracts.
The Group's cash equivalents and short-term deposits, are placed with quality financial institutions with a high credit rating.
Trade receivables are represented net of the allowance for doubtful receivables.
Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the large number of customers comprising the Group's customer base, which consists mainly of medical schemes and insurance companies.
The financial condition of these clients in relation to their credit standing is evaluated on an ongoing basis.
Medical schemes and insurance companies are forced to maintain minimum reserve levels.
The policy for patients that do not have a medical scheme or an insurance company paying for the Group's service, is to require a preliminary payment instead.
The Group does not have any significant exposure to any individual customer or counterparty.
The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties to hedging instruments.
The counterparties to these contracts are major financial institutions.
The Group monitors its positions and limits the extent to which it enters into contracts with any one party.
The carrying amounts of financial assets included in the statement of financial position represents the Group's maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to these assets.
At 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017, the Group did not consider there to be a significant concentration of credit risk.
c Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by monitoring cash flow forecasts to ensure that it has sufficient cash to meet operational needs, while maintaining sufficient headroom on its undrawn borrowing facilities at all times so that the Group does not breach borrowing limits or covenants where applicable on any of its borrowing facilities.
Given that the Group has bank facilities in place which expires during 2019 2020, the Group did not consider there to be a significant concentration of liquidity risk.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m The Groups unused overdraft facilities are: 95 88 164 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT continued 3.1 Financial risk factors continued c Liquidity risk continued The following table details the Groups remaining contractual maturity for its financial liabilities.
The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the required date of repayment.
The table includes both interest and principal cash flows.
The analysis of derivative financial instruments has been drawn up based on undiscounted net cash inflows outflows that settle on a net basis.
Contractual 0 12 1 5 Beyond 5 Carrying cash flows months years years Financial liabilities value m m m m 31 March 2017 Borrowings 2030 2279 153 2048 78 Derivative financial instruments 9 9 7 2 Trade payables 227 227 227 Other payables and accrued expenses 167 167 167 31 March 2016 Borrowings 1841 2025 358 1597 70 Derivative financial instruments 20 20 8 12 Trade payables 200 200 200 Other payables and accrued expenses 169 169 169 3.2 Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 17, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, retained earnings and other reserves and non-controlling interest as disclosed in notes 13, 14 and 16 respectively.
The Groups Audit and Risk Committee reviews the going concern status and capital structure of the Group annually.
The Group balances its overall capital structure through the payment of dividends, new share issues and share buy-backs as well as the issue of new debt or the redemption of existing debt.
The Groups dividend policy is to target a pay-out ratio of between 25% and 30% of underlying earnings.
The Board may revise the policy at its discretion.
The debt-to-adjusted capital ratios at 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 were as follows: GROUP 2017 2016 m m Borrowings 2 030 1 841 Less: cash and cash equivalents 361 305 Net debt 1 669 1 536 Total equity 4 164 3 570 Debt-to-equity capital ratio 0.4 0.4 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 165 4.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future.
Although these estimates and assumptions are based on management's best information regarding current circumstances and future events, actual results may differ.
The estimates and assumptions that have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Critical accounting judgements Level at which management monitors goodwill for impairment testing refer to note 7 Estimation of the indefinite useful life of the Swiss trade names refer to note 7 Deferred tax on unremitted earnings refer to note 10 Estimation of useful lives of property, equipment and vehicles refer to note 6 Key estimates Impairment of goodwill and indefinite useful life intangible assets refer to note 7 Impairment of equity-accounted investments refer to note 8 Recognition of deferred tax assets arising from tax losses refer to note 10 Retirement benefits refer to note 18 Purchase price allocation assessments refer to note 8.1 and note 29 166 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5.
SEGMENTAL REPORT The reportable operating segments are identified as follows: Mediclinic Southern Africa, Mediclinic Switzerland, and Mediclinic Middle East and additional segments are shown for the United Kingdom and Corporate.
Reportable operating segments Other Southern Middle United Africa Switzerland East Kingdom Corporate Total m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2017 Revenue 780 1321 648 2749 EBITDA 165 277 71 4 509 EBITDA before management fee 170 279 74 14 509 Management fees included in EBITDA 5 2 3 10 Other gains and losses 1 3 2 Depreciation and amortisation 25 76 44 145 Operating profit 140 201 28 7 362 Income from associate 12 12 Finance income 7 7 Finance cost excluding intersegment loan interest 33 28 7 6 74 Total finance cost 33 44 7 10 74 Elimination of intersegment loan interest 16 16 Taxation 32 32 64 Segment result 82 141 21 12 13 243 At 31 March 2017 Investments in associates 2 459 461 Investments in joint venture 4 4 Capital expenditure 70 128 51 249 Total segment assets 676 4258 1987 459 42 7422 Total segment liabilities excluding intersegment loan 650 2235 372 1 3258 Total liabilities from reportable segment 650 3140 372 1 4163 Elimination of intersegment loan 905 905 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 167 5.
SEGMENTAL REPORT continued Reportable operating segments Other Southern Middle United Africa Switzerland East Kingdom Corporate Total m m m m m m Year ended 31 March 2016 Revenue 649 1130 328 2107 EBITDA 129 229 68 44 382 EBITDA before management fee 133 230 70 51 382 Management fees included in EBITDA 4 1 2 7 Other gains and losses 1 1 Depreciation and amortisation 20 63 10 93 Operating profit 109 166 58 45 288 Income from associate 6 6 Finance income 8 1 9 Finance cost excluding intersegment loan interest 21 29 2 6 58 Total finance cost 21 46 2 11 58 Elimination of intersegment loan interest 17 17 Taxation 31 24 55 Segment result 65 114 56 6 51 190 At 31 March 2016 Investments in associates 1 451 452 Investments in joint venture 3 3 Capital expenditure 52 98 36 186 Total segment assets 485 3809 1800 451 4 6549 Total segment liabilities excluding intersegment loan 370 2094 243 272 2979 Total liabilities from reportable segment 370 2940 243 272 3825 Elimination of intersegment loan 846 846 168 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 5.
SEGMENTAL REPORT continued The total non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets per geographical location, are: Southern Africa 453 322 Middle East 1712 1526 Switzerland 3700 3302 United Kingdom 459 451 ENTITY-WIDE DISCLOSURES Revenue From UK From foreign countries 2749 2107 Revenues from external customers are primarily from hospital services.
The total non-current assets, excluding financial instruments and deferred tax assets From UK 459 451 From foreign countries 5865 5136 6.
PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES Land cost 911 819 Buildings 2294 1952 Cost 2512 2119 Accumulated depreciation and impairment 218 167 Land and buildings 3205 2771 Capital expenditure in progress 113 131 Equipment 328 251 Cost 795 610 Accumulated depreciation 467 359 Furniture and vehicles 57 46 Cost 218 169 Accumulated depreciation 161 123 3703 3199 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 169 6.
PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES continued Capital Land and expenditure Furniture buildings in progress Equipment and vehicles Total m m m m m Net book value at 1 April 2015 2647 99 200 39 2985 Additions 40 47 71 19 177 Depreciation 25 41 18 84 Business combinations 15 16 25 5 61 Prior year capital expenditure completed 18 18 Exchange differences 76 13 4 1 60 Net book value at 31 March 2016 2771 131 251 46 3199 Additions 57 77 83 22 239 Disposals Depreciation 37 60 22 119 Prior year capital expenditure completed 96 118 18 4 Disposal of subsidiaries 5 5 10 Transfer to assets held for sale 3 3 2 8 Exchange differences 326 26 43 7 402 Net book value at 31 March 2017 3205 113 328 57 3703 2017 2016 m m Total additions 239 177 To maintain operations 105 63 To expand operations 134 114 Property, equipment and vehicles with a book value of 2 730m 2016: 2 508m are encumbered as security for borrowings see note 17.
Included in equipment is capitalised finance lease equipment with a book value of 1m 2016: 1m.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The estimation of the useful lives of property, equipment and vehicles is based on historical performance as well as expectations about future use and therefore requires a significant degree of judgement to be applied by management.
Rates of depreciation represent managements current best estimate of the useful lives and residual values of the assets.
For a private hospital it is fundamentally important that the earnings potential of a building is maintained on a permanent basis.
The Group therefore follows a structured maintenance programme with regard to hospital buildings with the specific goal to prolong the useful lifetime of these buildings.
170 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 7.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS 1 Goodwill 1715 1532 Cost 1715 1532 Accumulated impairment Trade names 377 354 Cost 399 358 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 22 4 Computer software 38 31 Cost 73 54 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 35 23 Lease 26 24 Cost 27 24 Accumulated amortisation and impairment 1 2156 1941 Trade Computer 1 2 Goodwill names software Lease Total m m m m m Net book value at 1 April 2015 309 312 21 642 Additions 9 9 Amortisation 2 7 9 Business combinations 1203 33 8 24 1268 Exchange differences 20 11 31 Net book value at 31 March 2016 1 restated 1532 354 31 24 1941 Additions 12 12 Amortisation 16 9 1 26 Disposal of subsidiaries 33 33 Exchange differences 216 39 4 3 262 Net book value at 31 March 2017 1715 377 38 26 2156 1 Restated following the finalisation of the Al Noor acquisition see note 29 2 Rela tes to favourable lease contracts on buildings.
The leases are characterised by fixed annual rent with no annual rent escalations for most part of the contract.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group tests annually whether goodwill and the indefinite useful life intangible asset, resulting from the Al Noor and Hirslanden acquisitions, have suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amounts of cashgenerating units have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations require the use of estimates in respect of growth and discount rates and it assumes a stable regulatory environment.
Regulatory environments are subject to uncertainties that can have an impact on the recoverability of the goodwill and the intangible assets recoverable amount.
IFRS requires the impairment assessment to be performed at the level at which goodwill is monitored for impairment by management, provided that this level cannot be bigger than an operating segment.
Management assesses goodwill at a Hirslanden and Mediclinic Middle East platform level.
This means that for the Mediclinic Middle East platform, recoverability of goodwill is assessed by reference to the aggregated cash flows of the legacy Middle East and Al Noor businesses.
The Mediclinic Middle East goodwill originated mainly from the Al Noor business combination with a portion originating from other UAE business combinations The initial commercial rationale for the acquisition of Al Noor included expected synergies from integrating the legacy Al Noor business with the legacy MCME business that would be realised across the combined Middle East platform.
In accordance with IFRS, goodwill shall be allocated to all CGUS, or groups of CGUS, that are expected to benefit from the expected synergies.
The estimation of the indefinite useful life of the Hirslanden trade names is based on the expectation that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash flows for the Group.
This expectation requires a significant degree of management judgement.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 171 7.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Impairment testing of significant goodwill balances and indefinite useful life trade name The carrying amounts of significant goodwill and indefinite life trade names are considered annually for impairment testing.
The impairment tests are based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial budgets covering a five-year period.
The discount rates used reflect specific risks related to the hospital industry.
These calculations indicate that there was no impairment in the carrying value of goodwill balances and the Hirslanden trade name.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m Carrying amount of Mediclinic Middle East goodwill 1401 1197 Carrying amount of Hirslanden goodwill 307 278 Carrying amount of Hirslanden indefinite life trade names 341 309 Impairment testing of Mediclinic Middle East goodwill The Mediclinic Middle East goodwill originated mainly from the Al Noor business combination with a portion originating from other UAE business combinations.
Key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations for the annual impairment testing were as follows: Future earnings is based on budgets and forecasts that is calculated on a per hospital basis.
These budgets and forecasts represent managements best view of future admissions, tariffs and patient mix and include savings relating to operational and capital expenditures.
Discount rates discount rates reflect managements estimate of the time value and the risks associated with the Middle East business.
The weighted average cost of capital WACC has been determined by considering the respective debt and equity costs and ratios.
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 7.8% 2016: 7.8%.
Growth rates growth rates are based on budgeted figures and managements estimates.
The estimated figures assume a stable regulatory and tariff environment.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 2.5% 2016: 2.5% growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis the recoverable amount calculated based on value-in-use exceeded the carrying value by approximately 259m 2016: 294m.
A fall in growth rate to 1.6% 2016: 1.9% or a rise in discount rate to 8.5% 2016: 8.3% would reduce the headroom to nil.
Impairment testing of Hirslanden goodwill and indefinite life trade names Key assumptions used for the value-in-use calculations for the annual impairment testing were as follows: Future earnings is based on budgets and forecasts that is calculated on a per hospital basis.
Discount rates discount rates reflect managements estimate of the time value and the risks associated with the Hirslanden business.
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 4.7% 2016: 4.7%.
Cash flows beyond the five-year period are extrapolated using a 1.6% 2016: 1.6% growth rate.
Sensitivity analysis for the goodwill, the recoverable amount calculated based on value-in-use exceeded the carrying value by approximately 1 073m 2016: 1 212m.
A fall in growth rate to 0.5% 2016: 0.3% or a rise in discount rate to 5.6% 2016: 5.8% would reduce the headroom to nil.
172 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS continued Al Noor trade name On 15 February 2016, an intangible asset relating to the Al Noor trade name of 33m was recognised as part of the acquisition of Al Noor.
The useful life of the asset was determined to be five years.
Up until the end of February 2017, 7m of the trade name has been amortised.
Following the announcement on 21 February 2017 regarding the rebranding of all Al Noor facilities to Mediclinic, the carrying value and the useful economic life of the trade name recognised were reassessed.
The rebranding of all the Al Noor hospitals and clinics will be complete by the end of the next financial year and the majority of these will be rebranded before 30 June 2017 given that the carrying value of the trade name asset continued to be supportable.
Accelerated amortisation of 7m was recognised in March 2017 and the remainder of the balance will be amortised in the next financial year.
The total amortisation recognised in the 2017 financial year relating to the Al Noor trade name amounted to 14m.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Investment in associates 461 452 Investment in joint venture 4 3 465 455 8.1 Investment in associates Listed investments 459 451 Unlisted investments 2 1 461 452 Reconciliation of carrying value at the beginning and end of the period Opening balance 452 1 Total cost of equity investment note 30 447 Additional investment in unlisted associate 1 Share of net profit of associated companies 12 6 Dividends received from associated companies 4 2 461 452 Set out below are details of the associate which is material to the Group: Country of incorporation and place of % Name of entity business ownership United Spire Healthcare Group plc Kingdom 29.9% Spire Healthcare Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
It does not issue publicly available quarterly financial information and has a December year-end.
The associate was acquired on 24 August 2015.
The investment in associate was equity accounted for the 12 months to 31 December 2016 2016: 4 months to 31 December 2015.
No significant events occurred since 1 January 2017 to the reporting date.
During the current year the notional purchase price allocation was finalised and non-contractual relationships with consultants NCRC were identified as the only significant intangible asset.
The fair value of the total NCRC asset was determined as 225m and the remaining useful life was assessed as 22 years.
The Groups 29.9% portion of the asset amounts to 68m.
The NCRC intangible asset will be amortised over its useful life and the carrying value is included within the purchase adjustment figure below.
The amortisation charge for the current period is 4m 2016: nil.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 173 7.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Al Noor trade name 8.1 Investment in associates On 15 February 2016, an intangible asset relating to the Al Noor trade name of 33m was recognised as Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups material associate is set out below.
part of the acquisition of Al Noor.
Following the announcement on As at As at 21 February 2017 regarding the rebranding of all Al Noor facilities to Mediclinic, the carrying value and 31 31 the useful economic life of the trade name recognised were reassessed.
The rebranding of all the Al Noor December December hospitals and clinics will be complete by the end of the next financial year and the majority of these will 2016 2015 be rebranded before 30 June 2017 given that the carrying value of the trade name asset continued to be m m supportable.
Accelerated amortisation of 7m was recognised in March 2017 and the remainder of the Summarised statement of financial position balance will be amortised in the next financial year.
Current assets 215 242 Non-current assets 1509 1415 Total assets 1724 1657 GROUP Current liabilities 122 113 2017 2016 Non-current liabilities 567 547 m m 8.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS Net assets 1035 998 Investment in associates 461 452 Mediclinic's effective interest 29.9% 29.9% Investment in joint venture 4 3 Mediclinic's effective interest in net assets 310 298 465 455 Purchase adjustment 149 153 Total carrying value of equity investment 459 451 8.1 Investment in associates Listed investments 459 451 Unlisted investments 2 1 Market value of listed investment at 31 March 2017 389 431 461 452 Although the market value of the investment is below the carrying value Reconciliation of carrying value at the beginning and end of the period at 31 March 2017, management has concluded that no impairment exists.
Opening balance 452 1 An impairment test was performed with the following key assumptions Total cost of equity investment note 30 447 used for the value-in-use calculation: Additional investment in unlisted associate 1 Share of net profit of associated companies 12 6 Discount rates discount rates reflect managements estimate of the Dividends received from associated companies 4 2 time value and the risks associated with Spire's business.
The weighted 461 452 average cost of capital WACC has been determined by considering the respective debt and equity costs and ratios.
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 6.3%.
Set out below are details of the associate which is material to the Group: Growth rates growth rates are based on budgeted figures and Country of managements estimates.
The estimated figures assume a stable incorporegulatory and tariff environment.
Cash flows beyond the five-year ration and period are extrapolated using a 2.5% growth rate.
place of % Name of entity business ownership Sensitivity analysis a fall in growth rate to 2.4% or a rise in discount rate United to 6.4% would remove any headroom.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Kingdom 29.9% Summarised statement of comprehensive income Spire Healthcare Group plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The associate was acquired Revenue 926 885 on 24 August 2015.
The investment in associate was equity accounted for the 12 months to Profit from continuing operations 54 60 31 December 2016 2016: 4 months to 31 December 2015.
No significant events occurred since Other comprehensive income 1 January 2017 to the reporting date.
Total comprehensive income 54 60 During the current year the notional purchase price allocation was finalised and non-contractual Refer to the Annexure for further details of investments in associates.
relationships with consultants NCRC were identified as the only significant intangible asset.
174 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8.
EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS continued 8.1 Investment in associates continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements During the prior financial year, the Group acquired 29.9% of Spire Healthcare Group plc and recognised this investment as an investment in an associate.
At the date of acquisition a provisional notional purchase price allocation assessment did not identify any significant intangible assets other than goodwill.
During the finalisation of the notional purchase price allocation, NCRC was identified as a material intangible asset.
An independent valuer was used to assist in the identification and valuation of the NCRC.
The NCRC acquired was valued and measured by using the Multi Period Excess Earnings Method.
The valuation of NCRC used assumptions relating to future cash flows and discount rates which are based on forecasts and are therefore inherently judgemental.
The Group tests whether equity-accounted investments have suffered any impairment when a triggering event occurs, in this case the carrying value of the listed investment exceeds its market value.
The value-in-use calculation of the investment is based on a discounted cash flow model.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m 8.2 Investment in joint venture Unlisted Carrying value of investment in joint venture Opening balance 3 4 Share in current year losses Exchange differences 1 1 4 3 Amount is less than 1m.
The Group has a 49.9% interest in Wits University Donald Gordon Medical Centre Pty Limited.
The joint venture is accounted for by using its financial information for the twelve months ended 31 December 2016 2016: 31 December 2015 since it has a different year-end.
Details of the joint venture appear in the Annexure.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 175 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 9.
OTHER INVESTMENTS AND LOANS Unlisted no active market Loans and receivables 5 3 Available-for-sale: Shares 2 1 Other receivables 1 2 Short-term deposits 16 24 6 Non-current 8 6 Current 16 Total other investments and loans 24 6 Other investments and loans are held in the following currencies: Swiss franc 2 1 South African rand 5 3 UAE dirham 17 2 24 6 Supported by the underlying business financial position, the credit quality of the loans is considered satisfactory.
The other receivables relates to prepaid lease agreements in the UAE.
This relates to fixed deposits in the UAE, the maturity date of these deposits are during July 2017.
DEFERRED TAX The movement on the deferred tax account is as follows: Opening balance 430 412 Income statement charge for the year 21 13 Provision for the year 24 13 Previously unused tax losses recognised 3 Exchange differences 46 18 Charged to other comprehensive income 9 13 Balance at the end of the year 506 430 Deferred income tax assets 21 16 Deferred income tax liabilities 527 446 506 430 The deferred tax relating to current assets and current liabilities contain temporary differences that are most likely to realise in the next twelve months.
176 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
DEFERRED TAX continued The deferred tax balance is comprised of temporary differences arising in separate legal entities.
Offsetting has been applied on a legal entity basis.
The table below shows the deferred tax balances and movements in the various categories before offsetting was applied: Tangible Intangible Current Provisions assets assets assets and others Total m m m m m Deferred tax liabilities At 1 April 2015 392 71 6 9 478 Charged to the income statement 1 5 6 Exchange differences 16 2 1 19 At 31 March 2016 409 73 6 15 503 Set-off of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-off provisions 57 Net deferred tax liabilties at the end of the year 446 At 1 April 2016 409 73 6 15 503 Charged credited to the income statement 3 1 2 Exchange differences 43 7 1 2 53 At 31 March 2017 455 80 7 16 558 Set-off of deferred tax liabilities pursuant to set-off provisions 31 Net deferred tax liabilties at the end of the year 527 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 177 10.
DEFERRED TAX continued Tax losses Current Provisions carried assets and others Long term Derivatives forward Total m m liabilities m m m Deferred tax assets At 1 April 2015 2 8 16 5 35 66 Charged credited to the income statement 1 1 1 6 7 Credited to other comprehensive income 13 13 Exchange differences 1 1 At 31 March 2016 2 7 31 4 29 73 Set-off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set-off provisions 57 Net deferred tax assets at the end of the year 16 At 1 April 2016 2 7 31 4 29 73 Charged to the income statement 1 2 16 19 Charged to other comprehensive income 9 9 Exchange differences 4 3 7 At 31 March 2017 2 7 25 2 16 52 Set-off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set-off provisions 31 Net deferred tax assets at the end of the year 21 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Group has tax losses and other deductible temporary differences that have the potential to reduce tax payments in future years.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is probable, having regard to the projected future taxable income of these entities and after taking into account specific risk factors that affect the recovery of these assets.
Management uses the same profit projections for these purposes as are used by the business, for example in assessing the carrying value of goodwill.
Managements judgement in this area is applied on a case-by-case basis due to the jurisdictional nature of taxation.
This analysis is considered afresh at each balance sheet date.
178 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 10.
DEFERRED TAX continued Critical accounting estimates and judgements continued At 31 March 2017, the Group had unutilised tax losses of approximately 121m 2016: 172m potentially available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset of 16m 2016: 29m has been recognised in respect of losses based on profitability from approved budgets and business plans.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining losses due to the unpredictability and availability of future profit streams in the relevant jurisdictions.
The majority of the unrecognised losses relate to the Mediclinic International plc in the United Kingdom, which have no expiry, and the remainder relates to Switzerland, which expire after seven years.
Their utilisation is dependent upon the profitability of their entities.
The financial projections used in assessing the future profitability are consistent with those used in assessing the carrying value of goodwill as set out in note 7.
The rate of utilisation of these losses will depend on the incidence and timing of profits within each entity which consequently impacts their recognition as deferred tax assets.
Unused tax losses for the Group are as follows: GROUP 2017 2016 m m Unused tax losses not recognised as deferred tax assets Expiry in 1 year 1 1 Expiry in 2 years 1 Expiry in 3 to 7 years 13 6 No expiry 33 29 47 37 No deferred tax liability has been recognised in respect of temporary differences relating to the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments where the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Similarly tax is not provided where it is expected at the reporting date that such distributions will not give rise to a tax liability.
The gross timing difference in this regard amounts to 1 518m 2016: 1 282m.
There are no significant expected income tax consequences of earnings being distributed from Switzerland and the UAE, as there is no dividend withholding tax applicable to earnings being distributed from these operations.
Although South African distributions to the UK are typically subject to dividend withholding taxes, distributions from South Africa are not expected to have income tax consequences in the foreseeable future as the operations in South Africa have a significant contributed tax capital balance from which may be paid dividends free from witholding tax.
In line with the South African Reserve Bank requirement, it is intended that dividends to the South African resident shareholders on the South African share register will be paid from the dividend access scheme.
Refer to note 13 for details on the dividend access scheme.
INVENTORIES Inventories consist of: Pharmaceutical products 79 67 Consumables 10 8 Finished goods and work in progress 1 90 75 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales amounted to 630m 2016: 481m.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 179 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 12.
TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 1 Trade receivables 466 399 Less provision for impairment of receivables 41 19 Trade receivables net 425 380 2 Other receivables 166 167 591 547 1 Prior year restated following the finalisation of the Al Noor purchase price allocation see note 29.
2 Included in other receivables are Swiss unbilled services of 79m 2016: 82m.
More than 92% will be recovered by Swiss insurance companies and federal authorities cantons.
Swiss insurance companies are subject to regular creditworthiness checks e. g. minimum reserve levels.
Trade and other receivables are categorised as loans and receivables.
The carrying amounts of the Group's trade and other receivables are denominated in the following currencies: South African rand 95 59 Swiss franc 367 340 UAE dirham 129 148 591 547 Included in the Group's trade receivables balance are trade receivables with a carrying value of 165m 2016: 151m that are past due at the reporting date, but which the Group has not impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are still considered to be recoverable.
The ageing of these receivables are as follows: Up to 3 months 106 99 Between 3 and 6 months 40 20 Over 6 months 19 32 165 151 Movement in the provision for impairment of receivables Opening balance 19 18 Provision for receivables impairment 26 9 Exchange differences 11 Amounts written off as uncollectable 15 8 Balance at the end of the year 41 19 Amounts written off during the year relate to individually identified accounts that are considered to be uncollectable.
Provision for impairment of receivables is based on historical collection trends, current market conditions and expected future cash flows.
Management considers the credit quality of the unprovided trade receivables to be high in light of the nature of these trade receivables as described in note 3.1 b.
Trade receivables to the value of 53m 2016: 41m have been ceded as security for banking facilities.
180 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13.
SHARE CAPITAL Capital Reverse Share Share redemption acquisition Number capital premium reserve reserve Total Ordinary Shares of shares m m m m m At 1 April 2015 542476655 994 994 Shares issued August 2015 69444444 479 479 Share issue costs 4 4 At 14 February 2016 611921099 1469 1469 Reverse acquisition 53207327 1402 4862 6 3014 452 Combined capital structure on 15 February 2016 665128426 67 4862 6 3014 1921 Share subscription February 2016 72115384 7 593 600 Reduction of share premium 4765 4765 At 31 March 2016 737243810 74 690 6 3014 2244 At 31 March 2017 737243810 74 690 6 3014 2244 T he Company received legal advice on the scheme of arrangement and the premium on issue of share capital to Mediclinic International Limited shareholders did not qualify as merger relief under United Kingdom law.
Reverse acquisition The prior number of shares from 1 April 2015 to 14 February 2016 represents equivalent number of Mediclinic International Limited shares converted using the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement conversion ratio of 0.625.
From 15 February 2016 the capital structure of the Group represents that of Mediclinic International plc.
T he UK Companies Act provides that where shares of a company are repurchased and funded by a new issue of shares, the amount by which the Company's issued share capital is diminished on cancellation of the shares are transferred to a capital redemption reserve to maintain capital.
The reduction of the Company's share capital shall be treated as if the capital redemption reserve were paid up capital of the Company.
T he reverse acquisition reserve represents the net of the following adjustments resulting from the Al Noor reverse acquisition: adjus tment of the capital structure share capital and share premium of the Group to that of the legal parent: adjus tment to account for the premium on shares issued to the Mediclinic International Limited shareholders: and the shar e value component of the total consideration.
Number Total Treasury Shares of shares m At 1 April 2015 8427191 22 Repurchase of shares Forfeitable Share Plan 129927 1 Disposal of shares Forfeitable Share Plan 46091 Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts 8238246 21 At 31 March 2016 272781 2 Utilised by the Mpilo Trusts 1161 At 31 March 2017 271620 2 The balance of the treasury shares comprise: Forfeitable Share Plan 239290 Mpilo Trusts 32330 271620 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 181 13.
SHARE CAPITAL continued GROUP Ordinary Shares 2017 2016 Number of shares in issue: 737243810 737243810 Nominal value: 10p 10p Value: indicating nominal and share premium amount Rights of the Ordinary Shares the Ordinary Shares to profits: All dividends shall be declared and paid according to the amounts paid up on the Ordinary Shares.
Rights of the Ordinary Shares to capital: If there is a return of capital on winding-up or otherwise, the Ordinary Shares shall confer full rights but they do not confer any rights of redemption, and shall rank after the Subscriber Shares.
Voting rights of the Ordinary Shares: The Ordinary Shares shall confer, on each holder of the Ordinary Shares, the right to receive notice of and to attend, speak and vote at all general meetings of the Company.
Each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote on a poll.
GROUP 2017 2016 Subscriber Shares fully paid up m m Number of shares in issue: 10 10 Nominal value: 10p 10p Value: indicating nominal and share premium amount 10 issued Ordinary Shares were converted into and designated as subscriber shares of 10 pence each.
The Subscriber Shares carry no rights to receive any of the profits of the Company available for distribution by way of dividend or otherwise.
If there is a return of capital on a winding-up or otherwise, the assets of the Company available for distribution among the members shall be applied first in repaying in full to the holder of the Subscriber Shares the amount paid up on such shares.
Except as provided above, the Subscriber Shares shall not carry any right to participate in profits or assets of the Company.
The holders of the Subscriber Shares shall not be entitled to receive notice of or attend and vote at any general meeting of the Company unless a resolution is proposed which varies, modifies, alters or abrogates any of the rights attaching to the Subscriber Shares.
Dividend Access Scheme DAS A wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd, formed a Dividend Access Trust to comply with a South African Reserve Bank requirement that dividends from a South African source due to South African shareholders on the South African share register must be paid locally to avoid an outflow of funds from South Africa.
The beneficiaries of the trust are the South African shareholders of the Company who hold their shares via the South African share register on the relevant record date in respect of each distribution paid through the dividend access scheme DAS.
The Dividend Access Trust does not participate in any profits.
When a dividend is declared by the Company, the Dividend Access Trust would receive a dividend from Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd which in turn is paid over to the Companys transfer secretaries in South Africa, who arrange for the payment of the relevant amount to the South African shareholders the beneficiaries of the trust through the usual dividend payment procedures, as if they were dividends received from Mediclinic International plc.
To the extent that the dividends due to South African shareholders are not ultimately funded from Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd, they receive those dividends as normal dividends from Mediclinic International plc.
The South African shareholders' entitlement to receive dividends declared by Mediclinic International plc is reduced by any amounts they receive via the trust.
182 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 14.
OTHER RESERVES Other reserves comprise of: Equity-settled share-based payment reserves refer to note 15 24 24 Foreign currency translation reserve 779 407 Hedging reserve 4 4 Capital redemption reserve refer to note 13 6 6 Reverse acquisition reserve refer to note 13 3014 3014 2201 2573 Movements in other reserves: Equity-settled share-based payment reserve refer to note 15 24 24 Opening balance 24 14 Share-based payment expense 10 Foreign currency translation reserve 779 407 Opening balance 407 306 Currency translation differences 372 101 Hedging reserve 4 4 Opening balance 4 2 Fair value adjustments of cash flow hedges, net of tax 2 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS Equity-settled share-based payment reserve refer to note 14 and 15.1 24 24 Cash-settled share-based payment liability refer to note 15.2 1 Total share-based payment reserves and liabilities 25 24 Expenses arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions 10 Expenses arising from cash-settled share-based payment transactions 1 Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions refer to note 22 1 10 15.1 Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements The balance of the equity-settled share-based payment reserve comprises: Executive share option scheme 1 1 Forfeitable Share Plan 1 1 Al Noor share option scheme 2 2 Mpilo trusts Employee share trusts 17 17 Strategic South African black partners 7 7 24 24 During the financial year ending 31 March 2006, the difference between the fair value of the equity instruments issued in a BEE transaction and the fair value of the cash and other assets received was recognised as an expense grant date and this corresponding increase in equity was booked.
Expenses arising from equity-settled share-based payment transactions Forfeitable Share Plan 1 Mpilo trusts 11 Al Noor share option scheme 2 10 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 183 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 15.1 Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements continued Additional disclosure for each arrangement Mpilo trusts The Mpilo trusts were created in 2005 for purposes of an employee share scheme to introduce Mediclinic Southern Africa employees up to first line management level as shareholders of the Group.
This sharebased payment arrangement is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction.
As qualifying employees leave prior to entitlement and shares become available further allocations were made to new and existing qualifying employees.
The allocations of units made by the trusts were subject to lock-in periods which expired in December 2015, with the shares linked to participating employees units either transferred to them or sold with the proceeds of the sale distributed to them.
Summary of the allocations: Qualifying Issue Participating Allocation date price shares Expiry date First allocation 1 Dec 2005 R18.40 80 31 Dec 2015 Second allocation 1 Dec 2009 R18.08 50 31 Dec 2015 Third allocation 1 Dec 2010 R18.59 100 31 Dec 2015 Fourth allocation 1 Dec 2012 R17.20 70 31 Dec 2015 Fifth allocation 18 shares for 31 Dec 2015 every completed year of service Per qualifying employee for each completed year of service since previous allocation.
Initial 1 000 shares per qualifying employee and additional 80 shares for every year completed service prior 1 December 2005.
During the prior year, the expiry date of the Fourth Allocation was changed from 31 March 2018 to 31 December 2015.
"31 March 31 March Movement in the number of Mpilo 2017 2016 shares outstanding are: Outstanding price per share Number Number Outstanding at the beginning of the year R17.82 n a 7197831 Mpilo shares forfeited n a 119296 Fifth allocation n a 1159711 Mpilo shares vested R16.28 n a 8238246 Outstanding at the end of the period Forfeitable Share Plan The Mediclinic International Limited Forfeitable Share Plan ""FSP"" was approved by the Companys shareholders in July 2014 as a long-term incentive scheme for selected senior management Executive Directors and prescribed officers."
This share-based payment arrangement is accounted for as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction.
With the change in control and the acquisition of the Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, the performance conditions of FSP have been finalised to the extent that the performance conditions were met as at 30 September 2015.
The FSP shares will vest after the vesting period has lapsed.
Under the FSP, conditional share awards are granted to selected employees of the Group.
The vesting of these shares are subject to continued employment, and is conditional upon achievement of performance targets, measured over a three-year period.
The performance conditions for the year under review constitute a combination of: absolute total shareholder return TSR 40% weighting and underlying diluted headline earnings per share 60% weighting.
184 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 15.1 Equity-settled share-based payment arrangements continued Forfeitable Share Plan continued Weighted average fair value at 31 March 31 March grant date 2017 2016 offer price Number Number Opening balance R87.41 239290 155454 Granted R107.23 129927 Shares sold 46091 Vested Closing balance 239290 239290 A valuation has been determined and an expense recognised over a three-year period.
The fair value of the TSR performance condition has been determined by using the Monte Carlo simulation model and for the headline earnings per share performance condition, consensus forecasts have been used.
The following assumptions have been used to determine the fair value of the TSR performance condition: GROUP 2017 2016 % % Risk-free rate 7.49% 7.49% Dividend yield 1.0% 1.0% Volatility 20% 20% Apart from the FSP, there are no other share option schemes in place.
Therefore, no director exercised any rights in relation to share option schemes during the reporting period.
Share options exercised by Al Noor Hospital Group plc directors before the acquisition date 15 February 2016 are regarded as a pre-acquisition transaction in these consolidated financial statements.
15.2 Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements Long-term incentive plan awards LTIP The LTIP awards is phantom shares awarded to selected senior management.
This share-based payment arrangement is accounted for as a cash-settled share-based payment transaction.
Under the LTIP, conditional phantom shares are granted to selected employees of the Group.
The performance conditions for the year under review constitute a combination of: absolute total shareholder return TSR 40% weighting and underlying earnings per share 60% weighting.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m Opening balance Share-based payment expense 1 Benefits paid Closing balance 1 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 185 15.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS continued 15.2 Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements continued Long-term incentive plan awards LTIP continued A reconciliation of the movement in the LTIP award units is detailed below: Average 31 March price 2017 range Number pence of units Opening balance Granted 866 1 059 287694 Vested 866 1 059 3683 Lapsed Closing balance 284011 First Second Valuation assumptions relating to outstanding units: allocation allocation Grant date 14 June 2016 14 June 2016 Vesting date 14 June 2019 14 June 2021 Outstanding units 120922 150657 Closing share price 712 712 Risk-free interest rate 0.14% 0.26% Expected dividend yield 1.19% 1.19% Volatility 34.50% 34.50% 12 232 units were allocated on 1 September 2016 49 281 units were allocated on 1 August 2016 Certain awards were also granted to management that were subject only to service conditions.
These awards were granted on 1 September 2016 and vests on different dates between 1 September 2016 and 14 June 2019.
In the current year, the total number of these awards granted was 16 115.
3 683 of these awards vested in 2017.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Opening balance 61 61 Transactions with non-controlling shareholders 4 3 Dividends to non-controlling interests 9 7 Share of total comprehensive income 30 4 Share of profit 14 13 Currency translation differences 16 9 Non-controlling interests in hospital activities 78 61 Included in the 15m acquisition of non-controlling interest amount in the statement of cash flows is an amount of 14m which relates to the acquisition of the minority share in Al Madar Medical Centre LLC during the year.
186 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS continued Details of non-wholly-owned subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests: Accumulated non-controlling interests in Profit allocated Ownership interest statement of to non-controlling held by NCI financial position interests 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 % % m m m m Mediclinic Pty Ltd 3.7% 3.4% 7 5 2 1 Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd group 30.4% 30.3% 21 15 4 3 Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups subsidiaries that has material non-controlling interests is set out below.
The summarised financial information below represents amounts before inter-group eliminations.
Place of business: South Africa Mediclinic Pty Ltd 2017 2016 m m Current assets 129 90 Non-current assets 167 124 Current liabilities 150 116 Non-current liabilities 32 22 Revenue 350 294 Profit for the year 38 35 Other comprehensive income 1 Total comprehensive income 38 36 Net cash inflow from operating activities 55 64 Net cash outflow inflow from investing activities 27 1 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 27 65 Net cash inflow outflow 1 1 Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd group 2017 2016 m m Current assets 45 35 Non-current assets 37 23 Current liabilities 12 7 Non-current liabilites 3 2 Revenue 60 51 Profit for the year 13 11 Other comprehensive income Total comprehensive income 13 11 Net cash inflow from operating activities 16 11 Net cash outflow from investing activities 9 3 Net cash outflow from financing activities 7 7 Net cash inflow 2 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 187 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 17.
BORROWINGS Bank loans 1642 1581 Preference shares 199 90 Listed bonds 189 170 2030 1841 1961 1524 Non-current borrowings Current borrowings 69 317 Total borrowings 2030 1841 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m NonCurrent NonCurrent current current Southern African operations denominated in South African rand Secured The loan bears interest at the 3 month JIBAR variable rate plus a margin of 1.51% 2016: bank loan 1 1.51% compounded quarterly, and is repayable one on 3 June 2019.
176 1 139 1 Secured The loan bears interest at the 3 month JIBAR variable rate plus a margin of 1.69% and is bank loan 1 repayable on 3 June 2019. two 72 The loan bears interest at the 3 month JIBAR Secured variable rate plus a margin of 1.06% 2016: bank loan 1 1.06% compounded quarterly.
7m was repaid three on 1 September 2016 and the remaining amount will be repaid on 9 October 2017.
7 5 5 The loan bears interest at the 3 month JIBAR Secured variable rate plus a margin of 1.51% 2016: bank loan 1 1.51% compounded quarterly, and is repayable four on 3 June 2019.
30 9 These loans bear interest at variable rates Secured linked to the prime overdraft rate and are bank loan 2 repayable in periods ranging between one and five 12 years.
4 1 4 1 Preference Dividends are payable monthly at a rate of 69% 1 shares of prime interest rate 10.5% 2016: 10.5%.
6m shares was redeemed on 1 September 2016 and the balance will be redeemed on 3 June 2019.
108 1 85 5 Dividends are payable semi-annually at a rate Preference shares of 73% of the prime interest rate 10.5% 2016: 10.5%.
The amount is repayable on 29 June 2020.
90 Middle East operations denominated in UAE dirham The loan bears interest at variable rates linked Secured bank loan to the 3M LIBOR and a margin of 2.75% 2016: 3 one 2% with respective four-year and five-year amortising terms, expiring in June 2020 and May 2021.
154 19 50 3 Balance carried forward 634 29 292 15 188 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m NonCurrent NonCurrent current current 17.
BORROWINGS continued Balance carried forward 634 29 292 15 Swiss operations denominated in Swiss franc Secured These loans bear interest at variable rates bank loan linked to the 3M LIBOR plus 1.5% and 2.85% 4 one 2016: 3M LIBOR plus 1.5% and 2.85% and are repayable by 31 July 2020.
The non-current portion includes capitalised financing costs of 22m 2016: 26m.
1138 40 1062 36 Listed bonds The listed bonds consist of CHF145m 1.625% and CHF90m 2% Swiss franc bonds.
The bonds are repayable on 25 February 2021 and 25 February 2025 respectively.
189 170 United Kingdom operations denominated in pound The loan bears interest at variable rates linked Secured bank loan to LIBOR with a minimum base rate of 1% plus one 3.75%.
266 1961 69 1524 317 1 Property and equipment with a book value of 231m 2016: 160m are encumbered as security for these loans.
Cash and cash equivalents of 9m 2016: 12m and trade receivables of 52m 2016: 41m have also been ceded as security for these borrowings.
2 Property, equipment and vehicles with a book value of 16m 2016: 12m are encumbered as security for these loans.
Net trade receivables of 1m 2016: 1m has also been ceded as security for these loans.
3 Shar es of investments in Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited and Emirates Healthcare Limited are encumbered as security for these loans as well as an account pledge on receivable collection accounts.
Properties with a book value of nil 2016: 100m are encumbered as security for this loan.
4 The loan is secured by Swiss properties with a book value of 2,483m 2016: 2 248m and Swiss bank accounts with a book value of 142m 2016: 128m.
During the period, the bridge facility of 266m in the United Kingdom was repaid.
In South Africa, the Group entered a new long-term bank loan of 71m ZAR1.2bn and issued redeemable preference shares of 90m ZAR1.5bn which are classified as a financial liability.
In the Middle East, the Group entered a new long-term bank loan of 181m AED831m.
Other than these transactions and foreign currency movements on translation of local currency borrowings to pound, there is no significant change in the Groups borrowings.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 189 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS Statement of financial position obligations for: Swiss pension benefit obligation 73 119 South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation 35 24 UAE end-of-service benefit obligation 56 45 164 188 Total retirement benefit obligations 164 188 Short-term portion of retirement benefit obligations 10 9 Non-current retirement benefit obligations 154 179 Total amount charged to the income statement: Swiss pension benefit obligation 23 30 South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation 5 4 UAE end-of-service benefit obligation 8 4 36 38 Total amount credit charged to other comprehensive income: Swiss pension benefit obligation South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation 45 66 UAE end-of-service benefit obligation 1 2 4 43 69 None of the Directors of Mediclinic International plc participate in Swiss pension benefits or the UAE end-of-service benefit.
One Executive Director 2016: two of Mediclinic International plc participates in the South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements The cost of defined benefit pension plans, post-retirement medical benefit liability obligations, and the UAE end-of-service obligations are determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
"a Swiss pension benefit obligation The Group's Swiss operations has four 2016: five defined benefit pension plans, namely: Pensionskasse Hirslanden cash balance plan Vorsorgestiftung VSAO cash balance plan Association for Swiss Assistant and Senior Doctors Radiotherapie Hirslanden AG: Pension fund at foundation ""pro"" cash balance plan Clinique La Colline SA: Pension fund at banque cantonal vaudois cash balance plan Effective 1 January 2017 active insured members for the Swissana pension plan have been transferred into the Hirslanden and VSAO pension plans."
190 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued Statement of financial position Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: Present value of funded obligations 1086 949 Fair value of plan assets 1013 830 Net pension liability 73 119 The movement in the defined benefit obligation over the period is as follows: Opening balance 949 797 Current service cost 35 29 Interest cost 4 7 Past service cost 13 Employee contributions 30 26 Benefits paid 16 8 Actuarial loss experience 9 14 Actuarial gain loss change in financial assumption 12 45 Exchange differences 100 39 Balance at end of year 1086 949 The movement of the fair value of plan assets over the period is as follows: Opening balance 830 750 Employer contributions 35 30 Plan participants contributions 30 26 Benefits paid from fund 16 8 Interest income on plan assets 4 7 Return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 42 7 Administration cost paid 1 1 Exchange differences 89 33 Balance at end of year 1013 830 Statement of financial position Opening net liability 119 47 Expenses recognised in the income statement 23 30 Contributions paid by employer 35 30 Exchange differences 11 6 Actuarial gain loss recognised in other comprehensive income 45 66 Closing net liability 73 119 Statement of other comprehensive income Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income are as follows: Actuarial loss experience 9 14 Actuarial gain loss due to liability assumption changes 12 45 Return on plan assets greater less than discount rate 42 7 Total comprehensive income 45 66 Income statement Amounts recognised in the income statement are as follows: Current service cost 35 29 Past service cost 13 Interest on liability 4 7 Interest on plan assets 4 7 Administration cost paid 1 1 Total expense 23 30 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 191 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued Actual return on plan assets 46 1 a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued Principal actuarial assumptions on statement of financial position Discount rate 0.55% 0.45% Future salary increases 1.50% 1.50% Future pension increases 0.00% 0.00% Inflation rate 1.00% 1.00% Number of plan members Active members 8969 8617 Pensioners 744 694 9713 9311 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Asset allocation m % m % Quoted investments Fixed income investments 338 33.3% 288 34.7% Equity investments 255 25.2% 197 23.7% Real estate 60 5.9% 67 8.1% Other 98 9.7% 72 8.7% 751 74.1% 624 75.2% Nonquoted investments Fixed income investments 3 0.3% 3 0.3% Equity investments 12 1.2% 10 1.2% Real estate 181 17.9% 137 16.5% Other 66 6.5% 56 6.8% 262 25.9% 206 24.8% 1013 100.0% 830 100.0% Impact on defined benefit obligation Base Change in assumption assumption Increase Decrease Discount rate 0.55% 0.25% 2.7% 2.9% Salary growth rate 1.50% 0.50% 0.7% 0.7% Pension growth rate 0.00% 0.25% 2.4% 0.0% Increase by Decrease by Change in 1 year in 1 year in assumption assumption assumption 1 year in expected life time of plan Life expectancy mortality participant 2.3% 2.3% The above sensitivity analysis are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.
When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of financial position.
192 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued a Swiss pension benefit obligation continued The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the previous period.
Expected employer contributions to be paid to the pension plans for the year ended 31 March 2018 are 32m and it is anticipated that these contributions will remain at a similar level in the foreseeable future subject to change in financial conditions.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 13.6 years 2016: 14.3 years.
The maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation is as follows: 1 year 1 5 years 5 years Total m m m m 31 March 2017 Defined benefit obligation 73 220 898 1191 31 March 2016 Defined benefit obligation 57 170 731 958 The Swiss defined benefit pension plans expose the Group to some actuarial and investment risks.
The pension plans provides employees of the Hirslanden Group with post-employment, death-in-service and disability benefits in accordance with the Federal Law on Occupational Old-age.
These funds are separate legal entities from the Hirslanden Group.
The funds' governing bodies consists of an equal number of employer and employee representatives.
This governing body determines the level of benefits and the investment strategy for the plan assets based on asset-liability analyses performed periodically.
The basis for these asset-liability analyses are the statutory pension obligations, as these largely determine the cash flows of the fund.
In addition, the investment of the plan assets is based on regulations developed by the governing body in accordance with the legal investment guidelines BVV2.
The investment committee of the governing body is responsible for their implementation.
The governing body has mandated the investment activity to Complementa Investment Controlling AG, as the global custodian.
The investment strategy complies with the legal guidelines and is rather conservative.
Alternative investments and unhedged foreign currency positions are rare.
The benefits of the pension plans are substantially higher than the legal minimum.
They are determined by the employer's and employee's contributions and interest granted on the plan members accumulated savings: the interest rate is determined annually by the governing body in accordance with the legal framework defined contribution, as defined by the occupational pension law.
The employee's and the employer's contributions are determined based on the insured salary and range from 1.25% to 15.5% of the insured salary depending on the age of the beneficiary.
If an employee leaves the Hirslanden Group or the pension plans before reaching retirement age, legally they are to transfer the vested benefits to a new pension plan.
On retirement, the participant may decide to withdraw the benefits as an annuity or a lump-sum.
As per the pension law in Switzerland, benefits provided by the pension funds are financed through annual contributions.
If insufficient investment returns or actuarial losses lead to a funding gap, the governing body is legally obliged to take actions to close this gap within 5 years to a maximum of 7 years.
Such actions may include additional contributions by the respective group companies and the beneficiaries.
The current financial situation of the fund does not require such restructuring actions.
None of the Group companies benefit from any plan surpluses.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 193 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued b South African post-retirement medical benefit obligation The Group's Southern African operations have a post-retirement medical benefit obligation for employees who joined before 1 July 2012.
The Group accounts for actuarially determined future medical benefits and provide for the expected liability in the statement of financial position.
During the last valuation on 31 March 2017 a 8.65% 2016: 9.25% medical inflation cost and a 9.60% 2016: 10.25% interest rate were assumed.
The average retirement age was set at 63 years 2016: 63 years.
The assumed rates of mortality are as follows: During employment: SA 85 90 tables of mortality Post-employment: PA 90 tables GROUP 2017 2016 Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are as follows: m m Opening balance 24 26 Amounts recognised in the income statement 5 4 Current service cost 2 2 Interest cost 3 2 Benefits paid 1 Exchange differences 7 5 Actuarial gain recognised in other comprehensive income 1 Present value of unfunded obligations 35 24 The effect of a 1% movement in the assumed health cost trend rate 2017 2017 is as follows: Increase Decrease Defined benefit obligation 17% 14% Aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost 19% 15% 194 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 18.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS continued c UAE end-of-service benefit obligation In terms of UAE labour law, employees are entitled to severance pay at the end of employment.
Severance pay is calculated as follows: First five years of service: between 7 and 30 days wage per year of service and thereafter 30 days per additional year.
The employee benefit was actuarially determined: The following are the principle actuarial assumptions: 2017 2016 Discount rate 4.0% 4.2% Future salary increases 3.5% 3.5% Average retirement age 60 years 60 years Annual turnover rate 9.3% 12.8% GROUP Amounts recognised in the statement of financial position 2017 2016 are as follows: m m Opening balance 45 15 Amounts recognised in the income statement 8 4 Current service cost 6 3 Interest cost 2 1 Contributions 4 1 Business combinations 22 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 Classified as held for sale 1 Exchange differences 7 1 Actuarial loss recognised in other comprehensive income 2 4 Present value of unfunded obligations 56 45 Current portion of retirement benefit obligations 10 9 Non-current retirement benefit obligations 46 36 56 45 The effect of a 1% movement in the future salary increases rate 2017 2017 is as follows: Increase Decrease Defined benefit obligation 7% 6% Aggregate of the current service cost and interest cost 10% 8% Expected employer contributions to be paid to the UAE end-of-service benefit obligation for the year ended 31 March 2018 are 11m.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 195 Employee Legal cases Tariff benefits and other risks Total m m m m 19.
PROVISIONS Year ended 31 March 2016 Opening balance 14 1 31 46 Charged to the income statement 2 1 4 7 Utilised during the year 2 2 Unused amounts reversed 10 10 Exchange differences 1 1 2 Balance at the end of the year 15 2 26 43 At 31 March 2016 Current 2 17 19 Non-current 13 2 9 24 15 2 26 43 Year ended 31 March 2017 Opening balance 15 2 26 43 Charged to the income statement 3 7 7 17 Utilised during the year 2 3 1 6 Unused amounts reversed 1 11 12 Exchange differences 1 2 3 Balance at the end of the year 17 5 23 45 At 31 March 2017 Current 2 5 15 22 Non-current 15 8 23 17 5 23 45 a Employee benefits This provision is for benefits granted to employees for long service.
b Legal cases and other This provision relates to third-party excess payments for malpractice claims which are not covered by insurance and other costs for legal claims.
c Tariff risks This provision relates to compulsory health insurance tariff risks in Switzerland and other tariff disputes at some of the Group's Swiss hospitals.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m Provisions are expected to be payable during the following financial years: Within 1 year 22 19 After one year but not more than five years 16 18 More than five years 7 6 45 43 196 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2017 2017 2016 2016 m m m m 20.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Non-current Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 2 1 19 Total non-current 2 1 19 Current Interest rate swaps cash flow hedges 7 Forward exchange contracts 1 Call option 2 Total current 7 2 1 Total derivative financial instruments 9 3 20 Effective interest rate swaps In order to hedge specific exposures in the interest rate repricing profile of existing borrowings, the Group uses interest rate derivatives to generate the desired interest profile.
At 31 March 2017, the Group had twelve effective interest rate swap contracts 31 March 2016: eight for borrowings specifically in Southern Africa.
The value of borrowings hedged by the interest rate derivatives and the rates applicable to these contracts are as follows: Fair value Borrowings Fixed gain loss hedged interest Interest for the year m payable receivable m 31 March 2017 3 month JIBAR 69% of prime 1 to 3 years 184 5.5 8.1% interest rate 31 March 2016 3 month JIBAR 69% of prime 1 to 5 years 80 5.5 8.1% interest rate 1 The interest rate swap agreement reset every 3 months on 1 June, 1 September, 1 December and 1 March with a final reset on 1 September 2017 for 19m, on 1 March 2019 for 60m, on 3 June 2019 for 76m and on 2 March 2020 for 30m.
There is no ineffective portion recognised in the profit and loss that arises from the cash flow hedges.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 197 20.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Ineffective interest rate swaps Due to the current negative interest rates in Switzerland, the hedge relationship in respect of the 3 month Swiss LIBOR interest rate swaps became ineffective since the interest on the borrowings is capped at a rate of 0% but is fully considered as interest payments on the swap.
Hedge accounting discontinued from the date when hedge effectiveness could not be demonstrated, i. e. from 1 October 2014.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m Opening balance 19 26 Fair value adjustments booked through profit and loss finance cost 13 8 Exchange differences 1 1 Balance at the end of the period 7 19 Nominal Fixed value interest Interest m payable receivable 31 March 2017 0.112% and 3 month Swiss Beyond 1 year 1200 0.239% LIBOR 31 March 2016 0.112% and 3 month Swiss Beyond 2 years 1122 0.239% LIBOR T he interest rate swap agreement resets every 3 months on 31 March, 30 June, 30 September and 31 December with a final reset on 31 March 2018 and termination date on 30 September 2017 and 30 June 2018.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade payables 227 200 Other payables and accrued expenses 167 169 Social insurance and accrued leave pay 70 55 Value added tax 8 7 472 431 198 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 22.
EXPENSES BY NATURE Fees paid to the Group's auditors for the following services: Audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 0.3 0.4 Audit company subsidiaries 1.8 1.9 Audit services 2.1 2.3 Audit related services 0.5 1.1 Tax advice 0.4 0.4 Tax compliance 0.3 All other services 0.1 0.2 3.1 4.3 Cost of inventories 630 481 Depreciation buildings note 6 37 25 equipment note 6 60 41 furniture and vehicles note 6 22 18 Employee benefit expenses 1231 934 Wages and salaries 1181 875 Retirement benefit costs defined contribution plans 13 11 Retirement benefit costs defined benefit obligations note 18 36 38 Share-based payment expense note 15 1 10 Increase in provision for impairment for receivables note 12 26 9 Maintenance costs 50 44 Operating leases buildings 53 32 equipment 3 2 Amortisation of intangible assets note 7 26 9 Other expenses 244 219 General expenses 244 220 Profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles 1 2385 1818 Classified as: Cost of sales 1696 1264 Administration and other operating expenses 689 554 2385 1818 Depreciation and amortisation is classified as: Cost of sales 107 76 Administration and other operating expenses 38 17 145 93 No No Number of employees 32625 32884 23.
OTHER GAINS AND LOSSES Fair value adjustments on derivative contracts 1 1 Foreign exchange rate losses on corporate transactions 3 2 1 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 199 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 24.
FINANCE COSTS Interest expense 58 44 Interest rate swaps 11 11 Amortisation of capitalised financing costs 7 5 Fair value gains on ineffective cash flow hedges 13 8 Preference share dividend 12 6 Less: amounts included in the cost of qualifying assets 1 74 58 25.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE Current tax Current year 46 41 Previous year 3 1 Deferred tax note 9 21 13 Taxation per income statement 64 55 Composition UK tax Foreign tax 64 55 64 55 Reconciliation of rate of taxation: UK statutory rate of taxation 20.0% 20.0% Adjusted for: Capital gains taxed at different rates 0.1% Benefit of tax incentives 0.2% 0.2% Share of net profit of equity accounted investments 0.8% 0.5% Non-deductible expenses 1.8% 5.6% Non-controlling interests' share of profit before tax 0.3% 0.3% Effect of different tax rates 0.7% 3.9% Income tax rate changes 0.2% Non-recognition of tax losses in current year 0.9% 1.8% Recognition of tax losses relating to prior years 0.5% 0.4% Prior year adjustment 0.8% 0.4% Effective tax rate 20.8% 22.4% The impact of the following non-deductive expenses on the tax rate in the prior year was an increase of 4.2% 10m : Transaction costs in relation to the Al Noor transaction were not deductible for tax purposes as these costs are capital of nature.
The tax effect of this amounted 8m which resulted in an increase in the effective tax rate.
Non-deductible accelerated IFRS 2 charges increased the tax charge by 2m.
The effect of different tax rates is mainly because of profit earned from South Africa which is subject to an income tax rate of 28%, reduced by profit earned from the UAE which is not subject to income tax.
Compared to the comparative period, the effect of different tax rates increased mainly due to the proportional higher contribution by the Southern Africa operating segment and lower proportional contribution from the UAE.
A deferred tax asset of approximately 3m was recognised in respect of previously unrecognised assessed tax losses in South Africa due to improvements in local profitability.
The income tax liability includes an amount of approximately 3m 2016: 8m relating to unresolved tax matters.
The range of possible outcomes relating to this liability is not considered to be material.
200 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 26.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE Earnings per ordinary share pence Basic pence 31.0 29.6 Diluted pence 31.0 29.5 Number of shares reconciliation Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for basic earnings per share Number of ordinary shares in issue at the beginning of the year 737243810 542473328 Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares prior to reverse acquisition 14688077 Al Noor Hospitals Group plc shares repurchased 8000842 Weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year August 2015 41742562 Weighted average number of ordinary shares issued during the year February 2016 9063634 Adjustment for equity raising Rights Offer August 2015 IAS 33 para 26 5239773 Weighted average number of treasury shares 303656 6764447 BEE shareholder 31238 521142 Mpilo Trusts 33128 5995653 Forfeitable Share Plan 239290 247652 736940154 598442085 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue for diluted earnings per share Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 736940154 598442085 Weighted average number of treasury shares held not yet released from treasury stock 303656 768793 BEE shareholder 31238 521141 Mpilo Trusts 33128 Forfeitable Share Plan 239290 247652 737243810 599210878 The prior year number of shares have been converted using the Mediclinic scheme of arrangement conversion ratio of 0.625 Mediclinic International plc shares for each Mediclinic International Limited share held.
Repr esents the equivalent weighted average number of shares for which no value has been received from the BEE shareholder Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 RF Pty Ltd in terms of the Groups black ownership initiative.
To date, no value was received for an equivalent of 31 238 2016: 521 141 shares issued to the strategic black partner.
Mpilo Investment Holdings 1 RF Pty Ltd and Mpilo Investment Holdings 2 RF Pty Ltd are structured entities that are not consolidated due to the Group not having control.
These companies are investment holding companies and were incorporated as part of the Mediclinic BEE transaction.
The companies hold ordinary shares in Mediclinic International plc on which it receives dividends.
These dividends are used to repay the outstanding debt of the companies.
The outstanding debt referred to is provided by third parties with no recourse to the Group.
T he shares were issued at a price lower than the fair value of the shares before the equity capital raised in June 2014 and Rights Offer in August 2015.
As a result, the weighted average number of shares was adjusted in accordance with IAS 33 paragraph 26.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 201 26.
EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE continued Headline earnings per ordinary share The Group is required to calculate headline earnings per share HEPS in accordance with the JSE Limited JSE Listings Requirements, determined by reference to the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants circular 02 2015 Revised Headline Earnings.
The table below sets out a reconciliation of basic EPS and HEPS in accordance with that circular.
Disclosure of HEPS is not a requirement of IFRS, but it is a commonly used measure of earnings in South Africa.
The table below reconciles the profit for the financial year attributable to equity holders of the parent to headline earnings and summarises the calculation of basic HEPS: GROUP 2017 2016 m m Profit for the financial period attributable to equity holders of the parent 229 177 Adjustments Impairment of property Insurance proceeds Gain on disposal of subsidiary Profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles Headline earnings 229 177 Headline earnings per share pence 31.0 29.6 Diluted headline earnings per share pence 31.0 29.5 27.
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Components of other comprehensive income Currency translation differences 388 92 Fair value adjustment cash flow hedges 2 Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 34 56 Other comprehensive income, net of tax 422 38 Attributable to Tax charge Attributable to equity holders attributable to non-controlling of the Company equity holders interest before tax of the Company after tax Total m m m m Year ended 31 March 2017 Currency translation differences 372 16 388 Fair value adjustment cash flow hedges Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 43 9 34 Other comprehensive income 415 9 16 422 Year ended 31 March 2016 Currency translation differences 101 9 92 Recycling of fair value adjustments of derecognised cash flow hedge 1 1 Fair value adjustment cash flow hedges 1 1 Remeasurements of retirement benefit obligations 69 13 56 Other comprehensive income 34 13 9 38 202 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 28.
CASH FLOW INFORMATION 28.1 Reconciliation of profit before taxation to cash generated from operations Profit before taxation 307 245 Adjustments for: Finance cost net 67 49 Share of net profit of equity accounted investments 12 6 Other gains and losses 2 1 Share-based payment 1 10 Depreciation and amortisation 145 93 Impairment provision of trade receivables 26 Movement in provisions 1 5 Movement in retirement benefit obligations 4 9 Profit on disposal of property, equipment and vehicles 1 Operating income before changes in working capital 531 405 Working capital changes 22 6 Increase in inventories 4 1 Increase decrease in trade and other receivables 14 4 Decrease increase in trade and other payables 4 3 509 411 28.2 Interest paid Finance cost per income statement 74 58 Refinancing costs shown as financing activities 3 6 Non-cash items Amortisation of capitalised financing fees 7 5 Fair value gains on ineffective cash flow hedges 13 8 77 55 28.3 Tax paid Liability at the beginning of the period 8 11 Provision for the period 43 42 51 53 Liability at the end of the period 6 8 45 45 28.4 Investment to maintain operations Property, equipment and vehicles purchased 105 63 Intangible assets purchased 6 9 Less non-cash flow items 2 109 72 28.5 Investment to expand operations Property, equipment and vehicles purchased 134 114 Intangible assets purchased 6 140 114 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 203 28.
CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued Date paid Dividend per 2017 2016 payable share pence m m 28.6 Dividends declared Year ended 31 March 2017 12 December Interim dividend 2016 3.20 23 Final dividend 31 July 2017 4.70 35 7.90 Year ended 31 March 2016 7 December Interim dividend 2015 2.66 15 Final dividend 25 July 2016 5.24 39 7.90 58 54 Under IFRS dividends are only recognised in the financial statements when authorised by the Board of Directors for interim dividends or when authorised by the shareholders for final dividends.
The aggregate amount of the proposed dividend expected to be paid on 31 July 2017 from retained earnings has not been recognised as a liability on 31 March 2017.
GROUP 2017 2016 m m Dividends paid during the period 62 48 Net derivative financial instruments held Total to hedge borrowings borrowings Total m m m 28.7 Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Year ended 31 March 2017 Opening balance 1841 17 1858 Cash flow movements Proceeds from borrowings 247 247 Repayment of borrowings 327 327 Non-cash items Amortisation of capitalised financing fees 7 7 Fair value changes 13 13 Exchange rate differences 262 5 267 Closing balance 2030 9 2039 Year ended 31 March 2016 Opening balance 1618 26 1644 Cash flow movements Proceeds from borrowings 302 302 Repayment of borrowings 85 85 Non-cash items Amortisation of capitalised financing fees 5 5 Fair value changes 9 9 Exchange rate differences 1 1 Closing balance 1841 17 1858 204 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 28.
CASH FLOW INFORMATION continued 28.8 Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the statement of cash flows, cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts include: Cash and cash equivalents 361 305 Cash, cash equivalents and bank overdrafts are denominated in the following currencies: South African rand 96 74 Swiss franc 148 131 UAE dirham 83 100 Pound 34 361 305 The counterparties have a minimum Baa2 credit rating by Moodys.
The facility agreement of the Swiss subsidiary restricts the distribution of cash.
The counterparties have a minimum A2 credit rating by Moodys and a minimum A credit rating by Standard & Poors.
The counterparties have a minimum BBB by Standard & Poors.
The counterparty has a Aa2 credit rating by Moodys.
Cash and cash equivalents denominated in South African rands amounting to 12m 2016 : 12m has been ceded as security for borrowings see note 17.
29. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS There were no significant business combinations during the current year.
Al Noor Hospitals Group plc was acquired in the prior year.
GROUP 2016 m Cash flow on acquisition Al Noor Hospitals Group plc 17 Al Noor Hospitals Group plc On 15 February 2016, Mediclinic completed the combination between Al Noor Hospitals Group plc and Mediclinic International Limited.
The combination was classified as a reverse takeover.
After the reverse takeover, the Group is considered to be one of the worlds leading international private healthcare groups, with deep operational expertise and a well-balanced geographic profile in Southern Africa, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and in the UK through a minority stake in Spire.
The purchase price allocation calculation has been finalised and retrospective adjustments have been made to the calculation refer to footnote 2 on the next page.
The transaction resulted in 1 203m restated goodwill being recognised.
Goodwill represents the earnings potential of the established Al Noor business with a geographical footprint in Abu Dhabi as well as synergies from a combined business in the UAE and a skilled workforce assembled at the operating facilities.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 205 GROUP 2016 m Cash flow on acquisition 29. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS continued Al Noor Hospitals Group plc continued Purchase consideration at 15 February 2016 Special dividend 3.28 per share 383 Tender offer limited to 1bn with special dividend, 8.32 per share 530 1 Value of share element 446 Total consideration transferred 1359 Recognised amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed provisional purchase price allocation Assets Property, equipment and vehicles 61 Intangible assets 65 Other investments and loans 2 Inventories 14 2 Trade and other receivables 97 Derivative financial instruments 2 Investment in money market funds 10 Cash and cash equivalents 24 Total assets 275 Liabilities Retirement benefit obligations 22 Trade and other payables 92 Total liabilities 114 Total identifiable net assets at fair value 161 Non-controlling interest 5 2 Goodwill 1203 Total 1359 Analysis of cash flow on acquisition Transaction costs incurred in reverse acquisition 41 Net cash acquired with the subsidiary 24 Net cash flow on acquisition 17 1 T he value of the share element represents the equivalent fair value of the shares at date of acquisition that the acquirer Mediclinic International Limited would have issued to the shareholders of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc if equity instruments of the acquirer had to be issued.
2 T he fair value exercise over the opening balance sheet of Al Noor remained provisional at 31 March 2016 as permitted by IFRS 3.
During the year the Group has made progress to conform Al Noors commercial practices with the rest of the Group.
For this reason the fair value of acquired trade and other receivables was adjusted to align with the Groups policies.
A fair value adjustments of 14m was made to the opening balance of trade and other receivables as a result of the finalisation of the purchase price allocation.
This adjustment resulted in a change in the goodwill figure recorded in the prior years financial statements.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements Critical accounting estimates and assumptions were made in the purchase price allocation of the Al Noor acquisition in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The fair value of an asset or liability represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants.
An independent valuer was used to assist in the valuation of Al Noors opening balance sheet.
During the current year the purchase price allocation was finalised for the Al Noor acquisition and retrospective adjustments were made.
Refer to the retrospective adjustments made above.
206 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2016 m Cash flow on acquisition 30.
CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION OF INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE Spire Healthcare Group plc 446 Spire Healthcare Group plc is a leading private healthcare group in the UK with a national network of 39 hospitals across the United Kingdom.
The investment in Spire provides Mediclinic with a further opportunity to diversify into an attractive new geography with a strong currency.
The Group and Spire will benefit from collaboration, with the potential to unlock procurement benefits and knowledge transfer.
On 22 June 2015, Remgro through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Remgro Jersey Ltd subsequently renamed to Mediclinic Jersey Ltd, acquired 119 923 335 Spire shares equivalent to a 29.9% shareholding.
The purchase of the equity investment were negotiated jointly by Mediclinic and Remgro with the seller.
Mediclinic acquired Remgros indirect shareholding in Spire for an amount equal to the aggregate of the purchase price paid by Remgro Jersey Ltd, transaction costs and funding costs, totalling approximately 446m.
The Spire acquisition was effected through a series of transactions which ultimately resulted in Mediclinic, through a wholly-owned subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Limited directly holding the 29.9% interest in Spire from 24 August 2015.
GROUP 2016 m Cash flow on Purchase consideration paid, comprise of the following: acquisition Purchase price paid to Remgro 437 Transaction cost 10 Total cost of equity investment 447 Less cash acquired in subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Ltd 1 Cash flow on acquisition of investment in associate 446 31.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES The Group disposed of the following companies that were part of the Middle East segment: Rochester Wellness LLC, Emirates American Company for Medical Services LLC, Abu Dhabi Medical Services LLC and National Medical Services LLC.
GROUP 2017 m Cash flow on acquisition Consideration received Cash and cash equivalents 47 Consideration receivable 1 Other non-cash items 3 51 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 207 GROUP GROUP 2016 2017 m m Cash Cash flow on flow on acquisition acquisition 30.
CASH FLOW ON ACQUISITION OF INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE 31.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES continued Spire Healthcare Group plc 446 Analysis of assets and liabilities over which control was lost Assets Property, equipment and vehicles 10 Spire Healthcare Group plc is a leading private healthcare group in the UK with a national network of 39 hospitals across the United Kingdom.
The investment in Spire provides Mediclinic with a further Goodwill 33 opportunity to diversify into an attractive new geography with a strong currency.
The Group and Spire Trade and other receivables 10 will benefit from collaboration, with the potential to unlock procurement benefits and knowledge transfer.
Cash and cash equivalents 3 Total assets 56 On 22 June 2015, Remgro through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Remgro Jersey Ltd subsequently renamed to Mediclinic Jersey Ltd, acquired 119 923 335 Spire shares equivalent to a 29.9% shareholding.
Liabilities The purchase of the equity investment were negotiated jointly by Mediclinic and Remgro with the seller.
Retirement benefit obligations 1 Mediclinic acquired Remgros indirect shareholding in Spire for an amount equal to the aggregate of the Trade and other payables 4 purchase price paid by Remgro Jersey Ltd, transaction costs and funding costs, totalling approximately 446m.
The Spire acquisition was effected through a series of transactions which ultimately resulted in Total liabilities 5 Mediclinic, through a wholly-owned subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Limited directly holding the 29.9% Net assets disposed of 51 interest in Spire from 24 August 2015.
Gain on disposal of subsidiary GROUP Consideration received 51 2016 Net assets disposed of 51 m Gain on disposal Cash flow on Purchase consideration paid, comprise of the following: acquisition Total cashflow on disposal of subsidiary 47 Purchase price paid to Remgro 437 Less: cash and cash equivalents balanced disposed of 3 Transaction cost 10 Net cash flow on disposal 44 Total cost of equity investment 447 Less cash acquired in subsidiary Mediclinic Jersey Ltd 1 32.
DISPOSAL GROUPS HELD FOR SALE Cash flow on acquisition of investment in associate 446 Before the end of the financial year, management decided to sell the following clinics within the Mediclinic Middle East segment: Mediclinic Beach Road Clinic, Mediclinic Corniche Medical Centre, Lookwow Oneday Surgery and Pharmacy, Al Noor Sanaiya Clinic and Pharmacy, Al Noor ICAD Clinic and Pharmacy, 31.
DISPOSAL OF SUBSIDIARIES Al Noor International Medical Centre Sharjah, Al Noor Hamdan Street Pharmacy, Al Madar Ajman Clinic The Group disposed of the following companies that were part of the Middle East segment: Rochester and Pharmacy and Al Madar Diagnostic Centre-Al Ain.
Wellness LLC, Emirates American Company for Medical Services LLC, Abu Dhabi Medical Services LLC and National Medical Services LLC.
Accordingly, assets and liabilities of these clinics are disclosed as held for sale as the classification requirements of IFRS 5 have been met at 31 March 2017.
GROUP 2017 m GROUP Cash 2017 2016 flow on m m acquisition Analysis of assets and liabilities held for sale Consideration received Assets Cash and cash equivalents 47 Property, equipment and vehicles 8 Consideration receivable 1 Inventories 1 Other non-cash items 3 Total assets 9 51 Liabilities Retirement benefit obligations 1 Trade and other payables 1 Total liabilities 2 208 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP 2017 2016 m m 33.
COMMITMENTS Capital commitments Incomplete capital expenditure contracts 170 92 Southern Africa 61 57 Switzerland 13 10 Middle East 96 25 Capital expenses authorised by the Board of Directors but not yet contracted 227 212 Southern Africa 153 70 Switzerland 19 18 Middle East 55 124 397 304 These commitments will be financed from Group and borrowed funds.
Operating lease commitments The Group has entered into various operating lease agreements on premises and equipment.
The future non-cancellable minimum lease rentals are payable during the following financial years: GROUP 2017 2016 m m Within 1 year 45 41 1 to 5 years 166 139 Beyond 5 years 366 322 577 502 Income guarantees As part of the expansion of network of specialist institutes in Switzerland and centres of expertise the Group has agreed to guarantee a minimum net income to these specialists for a start-up period of three to five years.
Payments under such guarantees become due, if the net income from the collaboration does not meet the amounts guaranteed.
There were no payments under the above mentioned income guarantees in the reporting period as the net income individually generated met or exceeded the amounts guaranteed.
GROUP 2017 2016 Total of net income guaranteed: m m April 2015 to March 2016 6 April 2016 to March 2017 4 3 April 2017 to March 2018 1 April 2018 to March 2019 5 9 Contingent liabilities Litigation The Group is not aware of any pending legal claims that are not covered by the Groups extensive insurance programmes.
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 209 GROUP 2017 2016 m m 34.
RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Remgro Limited owns, through various subsidiaries Remgro Healthcare Pty Limited, Remgro Health Limited and Remgro Jersey GBP Limited 44.56% 2016: 44.56% of the Company's issued shared capital.
The following transactions were carried out with related third parties: i Transactions with shareholders Share subscription Remgro Group and its subsidiaries 600 In addition to the share subscription February 2016, Remgro also participated in the Right Offer August 2015.
Remgro Management Services Limited subsidiary of Remgro Limited Managerial and administration fees 0.30 0.20 Internal audit services 0.20 0.10 Management fee relating to the acquisition of equity investment Spire Healthcare Group plc 2 Underwriting fees in respect of the rights offer 4 V & R Management Services AG subsidiary of Remgro Limited Administration fees Acquisition of equity investment Spire Healthcare Group plc During the prior period, Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd previously Mediclinic International Ltd and Remgro Limited jointly negotiated the terms of the transaction to acquire an equity investment in Spire Healthcare Group plc with the seller.
Refer to note 30 for additional information.
ii Key management compensation Key management includes the Directors Executive and Non-executive and members of the Executive Committee.
Salaries and other short-term benefits 7 4 Short-term benefits 6 4 Post-employment benefits Share-based payment 1 iii Transactions with associates Zentrallabor Zrich ZLZ Fees earned 1 1 Purchases 10 7 Spire Healthcare Group plc Non-executive Director fee Amount is less than 0.5m.
210 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES 35.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Financial instruments that are measured at fair value in the statement of financial position, are classified using a fair value hierarchy that reflects the significance of the inputs used in the valuation.
The fair value hierarchy has the following levels: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2 Input other than quoted prices included within level 1 that is observable for the asset or liability, either directly as prices or indirectly derived from prices Level 3 Input for the asset or liability that is not based on observable market data unobservable input.
GROUP Financial instruments carried at fair value in the 2017 2016 statement of financial position m m Financial assets Other investments and loans available-for-sale assets 2 1 Derivative financial instruments 3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 9 20 Available-for-sale assets part of other investments and loans : Fair value is based on appropriate valuation methodologies being discounted cash flow or actual net asset value of the investment.
These assets are grouped as level 2.
Derivative financial instruments: Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates.
Based on the degree to which the fair value is observable, the interest rate swaps and forward contracts are grouped as level 2.
GROUP Financial instruments not carried at fair value in the 2017 2016 statement of financial position m m Financial assets Other investments and loans 22 5 Trade and other receivables 425 380 Cash and cash equivalents 361 305 Financial liabilities Borrowings 2030 1841 Trade and other payables 394 369 Cash and cash equivalents, trade and other receivables, trade and other payables and other investments and loans: Due to the expected short-term maturity of these financial instruments their carrying value approximate their fair value.
Borrowings: The fair value of long-term borrowings is based on discounted cash flows using the effective interest rate method.
As the interest rates of long-term borrowings are all market related, their carrying values approximate their fair value.
EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING DATE No material events occurred between the reporting date and the date the financial statements were authorised for issue.
"INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 211 ANNEXURE INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES 1 Interest in capital Company Country of Principal activities 31 March 31 March incorporation 2017 2016 and place of % % business Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited ""ANH Cayman"" Cayman Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Islands ANMC Management Limited ""ANMC Management"" Cayman Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Islands and manager of Al Noor Golden Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited Jersey Treasury 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V Netherlands Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited Jersey Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Group Indirectly held through Mediclinic CHF Finco Limited Mediclinic Jersey Limited Jersey Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic International RF Pty Ltd Mediclinic Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Investments Pty Ltd Business Ventures Investments No 1871 Pty Ltd Jersey Deregistered 100.0 Mediclinic Europe Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 deregistration in process Mediclinic Group Services Pty Ltd South Africa Provision of group services within 100.0 100.0 the Mediclinic group Mediclinic Middle East Investment Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Group Services Pty Ltd Mediclinic Management Services Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 deregistration in process Indirectly held through Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 69.6 69.8 ER24 Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Hedrapix Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 Howick Private Hospital Holdings Pty Ltd South Africa Intermediary holding company 50.0 50.0 Medical Human Resources Pty Ltd South Africa Management of healthcare staff 100.0 100.0 Medical Innovations Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital equipment 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Pty Ltd ordinary shares and Mediclinic Head Office South Africa Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Hospital Shares and operating company of Mediclinic Southern Africa Mediclinic Brits Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 65.2 64.1 Mediclinic Finance Corporation Pty Ltd South Africa Treasury 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Holdings Namibia Pty Ltd Namibia Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Lephalale Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 87.3 87.3 Mediclinic Midstream Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 81.1 81.1 Mediclinic Midstream Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Paarl Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 75.2 74.6 Mediclinic Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Property ownership and 100.0 100.0 management Mediclinic Tzaneen Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare services 50.0 50.0 212 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES continued 1 Interest in capital Company Country of Principal activities 31 March 31 March incorporation 2017 2016 and place of % % business Indirectly held through Mediclinic Southern Africa Pty Ltd Medipark Clinic Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 Newcastle Private Hospital Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare services 50.0 50.0 Phodiclinics Pty Ltd South Africa Deregistered 100.0 Practice Relief Pty Ltd South Africa Provision of debt collection and 100.0 100.0 related services Victoria Hospital Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare services 50.0 50.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Holdings Namibia Pty Ltd Mediclinic Capital Namibia Pty Ltd Namibia Investment holding company 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Otjiwarongo Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare services 100.0 96.0 Mediclinic Properties Swakopmund Pty Ltd Namibia Property ownership and 100.0 100.0 management Mediclinic Properties Windhoek Pty Ltd Namibia Property ownership and 100.0 100.0 management Mediclinic Swakopmund Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare services 97.2 97.2 Mediclinic Windhoek Pty Ltd Namibia Healthcare services 96.5 96.4 Hospital Investment Companies Mediclinic Bloemfontein Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 98.9 98.7 Mediclinic Cape Gate Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 92.8 93.5 Mediclinic Cape Town Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.0 99.0 Mediclinic Constantiaberg Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 75.6 75.6 Mediclinic Durbanville Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.4 99.4 Mediclinic Emfuleni Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 84.1 82.9 Mediclinic George Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 97.2 98.6 Mediclinic Highveld Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 98.6 98.6 Mediclinic Hoogland Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.2 99.2 Mediclinic Kathu Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Dormant 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Klein Karoo Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Legae Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 93.1 94.3 Mediclinic Louis Leipoldt Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.6 99.6 Mediclinic Milnerton Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.4 99.4 Mediclinic Morningside Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 79.0 79.7 Mediclinic Nelspruit Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 98.7 98.6 Mediclinic Panorama Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 98.7 99.1 Mediclinic Pietermaritzburg Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 76.4 76.9 Mediclinic Plettenberg Bay Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 95.0 94.5 Mediclinic Sandton Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 92.9 92.8 Mediclinic Secunda Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 81.8 81.8 Mediclinic Stellenbosch Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 90.8 90.8 Mediclinic Vereeniging Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 99.0 99.0 Mediclinic Vergelegen Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 93.1 94.3 Mediclinic Welkom Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 91.4 92.2 Mediclinic Worcester Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Hospital investment company 97.3 99.3 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 213 SUBSIDIARIES continued 1 Interest in capital Company Country of Principal activities 31 March 31 March incorporation 2017 2016 and place of % % business Indirectly held through Mediclinic Pty Ltd Mediclinic Barberton Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 77.0 77.0 Mediclinic Ermelo Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 50.1 50.1 Mediclinic Hermanus Pty Ltd 50% plus 1 share South Africa Healthcare services 53.2 50.0 Mediclinic Kimberley Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 89.4 88.6 $ Mediclinic Limpopo Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 50.0 50.0 Mediclinic Potchefstroom Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 86.8 88.3 Mediclinic Upington Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 50.0 50.0 Indirectly held through Howick Private Hospital Holdings Pty Ltd Howick Private Hospital Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Limpopo Pty Ltd Mediclinic Limpopo Day Clinic Pty Ltd South Africa Day clinic investment company 60.2 64.7 Mediclinic Limpopo Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Durbanville Investments Pty Ltd Mediclinic Durbanville Day Clinic Pty Ltd South Africa Day clinic investment company 89.9 89.9 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Tzaneen Pty Ltd Mediclinic Tzaneen Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Victoria Hospital Pty Ltd Victoria Hospital Investments Pty Ltd South Africa Investment holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Curamed Holdings Pty Ltd Curamed Hospitals Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Curamed Properties Pty Ltd South Africa Property ownership and 100.0 100.0 management Indirectly held through Curamed Hospitals Pty Ltd Mediclinic Thabazimbi Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 76.0 76.0 Indirectly Held through ER24 Holdings Pty Ltd ER24 EMS Pty Ltd South Africa Emergency medical services 100.0 100.0 ER24 Trademarks Pty Ltd South Africa Intellectual property holding 100.0 100.0 company Indirectly held through Mediclinic Holdings Netherlands B. V Mediclinic Luxembourg S.. r. l Luxembourg Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Luxembourg S.. r. l. Hirslanden AG Switzerland Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 and operating company of the Hirslanden group Indirectly held through Hirslanden AG AndreasKlinik AG Cham Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Hirslanden Bern AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Hirslanden Clinique La Colline SA Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Hirslanden Freiburg AG, Ddingen Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Hirslanden Klinik Aarau AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 214 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES continued 1 Interest in capital Company Country of Principal activities 31 March 31 March incorporation 2017 2016 and place of % % business Indirectly held through Hirslanden AG Hirslanden Klinik Am Rosenberg AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Hirslanden Lausanne SA Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 IMRAD SA Switzerland Healthcare services 80.0 80.0 Klinik Belair AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Klinik Birshof AG Switzerland Healthcare services 99.7 99.7 Klinik St. Anna AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Klinik Stephanshorn AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Radiotherapie Hirslanden AG Switzerland Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Hirslanden Klinik am Rosenberg AG Klinik am Rosenberg Heiden AG Switzerland Healthcare services 99.2 99.1 Indirectly held through Mediclinic Middle East Holdings Limited Mediclinic International Co Limited United Dormant 100.0 100.0 Kingdom Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited British Virgin Intermediary holding company 100.0 100.0 Islands Indirectly held through Emirates Healthcare Holdings Limited Welcare World Holdings Limited British Virgin Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Islands Emirates Healthcare Limited British Virgin Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Islands Indirectly held through Emirates Healthcare Limited American Healthcare Management Systems Limited British Virgin Management services 100.0 100.0 Islands Delah Cafe FZ LLC incorporated in October 2016 UAE Food and catering 100.0 Emirates Healthcare Estates Limited British Virgin Property management 100.0 100.0 Islands Mediclinic Al Quasis Clinic LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Beach Road LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic City Hospital FZ LLC UAE Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Mediclinic Clinics Investment LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Ibn Battuta Clinic LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Medical Stores Co LLC2 UAE Procurement 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Mirdif Clinic LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Parkview Hospital LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 The Manchester Clinic LLC2 previously held by UAE Healthcare services 49.0 24.0 Mediclinic Hospitals LLC Welcare Hospitals Limited British Virgin Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Islands Welcare World Health Systems Limited British Virgin Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Islands Indirectly held through Welcare Hospitals Limited Mediclinic Welcare Hospital LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 215 SUBSIDIARIES continued 1 Interest in capital Company Country of Principal activities 31 March 31 March incorporation 2017 2016 and place of % % business Indirectly held through Welcare World Holdings Limited Mediclinic Corniche Medical Centre LLC2 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 49.0 Mediclinic Pharmacy LLC2 UAE Healthcare services pharmacy 49.0 49.0 Indirectly held through Welcare World Health Systems Limited Mediclinic Middle East Management Services FZ LLC UAE Healthcare Management services 100.0 100.0 Indirectly held through Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited ANMC Management Limited Al Noor Golden Commercial Investment LLC UAE Intermediary holding company 49.0 49.0 3 ""Al Noor Golden"" Indirectly held through Al Noor Golden Mediclinic Hospitals LLC previously named Al Noor UAE Intermediary holding company 99.0 99.0 Medical Company Al Noor Hospital Al Noor Pharmacy and operating company for and Al Noor Warehouse LLC 4 Al Noor business Indirectly held through Mediclinic Hospitals LLC Al Noor Hospital Family Care Centre Al Mamoora LLC6 UAE Healthcare services 100.0 100.0 Emirates American Company for Medical Services LLC UAE Sold during the year 100.0 Rochester Wellness LLC UAE Sold during the year 49.0 Abu Dhabi Medical Services LLC Oman Sold during the year 70.0 National Medical Services LLC Oman Sold during the year 70.0 Al Noor Hospital Medical Centre Khalifa City LLC7 UAE Healthcare services 49.0 5 Al Madar Medical Centre LLC UAE Healthcare services 73.0 48.0 Aspetar Al Madar Medical Center LLC previously named UAE Healthcare services 49.0 48.0 8 Aspetar Al Madar Rehabilitation Centre LLC Al Noor Hospital Clinics Al Ain LLC UAE Healthcare services 99.0 99.0 Pharmalight Medical Stores LLC UAE Procurement 99.0 Indirectly held through Al Madar Medical Centre LLC Lookwow Oneday Surgery Company LLC UAE Healthcare services 76.0 76.0 9 Lookwow Pharmacy LLC UAE Healthcare services pharmacy 49.0 216 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES SUBSIDIARIES continued Notes 1 The actual equity interest in the UAE entities are disclosed herein, with the beneficial interest further explained in the notes."
2 In terms of the constitutional and contractual arrangements the Group has full management control and an economic interest of 100% in these UAE entities.
3 Al Noor Holdings Cayman Limited ANH Cayman holds 48% and ANMC Management Limited ANMC Management holds 1% in the share capital of Al Noor Golden Commercial Investment LLC Al Noor Golden, collectively 49%.
The remaining 51% is held by Al Noor Commercial Investment LLC ANCI.
The constitutional documents of Al Noor Golden provide ANH Cayman with the right to receive up to 89% of all distributions by Al Noor Golden, ANMC Management the right to receive 1%, and ANCI the right to receive the remaining 10%.
In terms of the Mudaraba Agreement, ANH Cayman has the right to receive 99% of ANCIs right to receive 10% of the distributions of Al Noor Golden.
Al Noor Cayman and ANMC Management therefore, collectively, have an effective beneficial interest of 99.9% in Al Noor Golden.
The First Arabian Corporation LLC holds 99.33% and Sheikh Mohammed Bin Butti Al Hamed holds the remaining 0.67% in ANCI.
ANCI holds 51% of the issued share capital of Al Noor Golden, and 1% of the issued share capital of Mediclinic Hospitals LLC.
ANMC Management is appointed as the manager of ANCI.
Pursuant to a shareholders agreement and a Mudaraba agreement, 99% of ANCIs profit or loss should be distributed to ANH Cayman.
4 Al Noor Golden holds 99% of the issued share capital of Mediclinic Hospitals LLC, with the remaining 1% held by ANCI.
Al Noor Golden has the right to be appointed at the proxy of ANCI, to attend and vote at all shareholder meetings of Mediclinic Hospitals LLC.
5 Mediclinic Hospitals LLC holds 73% of the issued share capital of Al Madar Medical Center LLC, with the remaining 27% interest held by ANCI.
The Memorandum of Association of the company provides that Mediclinic Hospitals LLC is entitled to receive 99% of distributions by the company and ANCI is entitled to receive 1%.
The Groups effective beneficial interest in the entity is therefore 99%.
6 Mediclinic Hospitals LLC holds 99% and Al Noor Golden holds 1% in the issued share capital of Al Noor Hospital Family Care Centre AL Mamoora LLC, collectively 100%.
7 Al Noor Golden holds 49% of the issued share capital of Al Noor Hospital Medical Center Khalifa City LLC, with the remaining 51% held by ANCI.
The Memorandum of Association of the company provides that Al Noor Golden is entitled to receive 99% of distributions by the company and ANCI is entitled to receive 1%.
8 Mediclinic Hospitals LLC holds 49% of the issued share capital of Aspetar Al Madar Medical Center LLC, with the remaining 51% held by ANCI.
The Groups effective beneficial interest is therefore 99%.
9 Al Madar Medical Center LLC holds 49% of the issued share capital of Lookwow Pharmacy LLC, with the remaining 51% held by a third party.
The Memorandum of Association of the company provides that Al Madar Medical Center LLC is entitled to receive 76% of distributions by the company and the third party is entitled to receive 24%.
The Groups effective beneficial interest is therefore 76%.
Controlled through long-term management agreements $ Operating through trusts or partnerships INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES, ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 217 JOINT VENTURES Interest in capital Country of incorporation 31 March 31 March and place of 2017 2016 Company business Principal activities % % Wits University Donald Gordon Medical Centre Pty Ltd South Africa Healthcare services 49.9 49.9 ASSOCIATES Book value of Interest in capital investment 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 2017 2016 Company % % m m Listed: Spire Healthcare Group plc held through Mediclinic Jersey Limited 29.9 29.9 459 451 Unlisted: Zentrallabor Zrich, Zrich 53.0 56.0 2 1 Baukonsortium, Cham 24.0 24.0 Centre fide Reeducation et fide Physiotherapie SA 20.0 20.0 Centre fide Physiotherapie du Sport S.. r. l. 23.0 461 452 The nature of the activities of the associates is similar to the major activities of the Group.
218 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Mediclinic International plc REPORT ON THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion, Mediclinic International plcs company financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs at 31 March 2017 and of its cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements, comprise: the statement of financial position at 31 March 2017: the statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER REQUIRED REPORTING CONSISTENCY OF OTHER INFORMATION AND COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
In addition, in light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we are required to report if we have identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 219 ISAS UK & IRELAND REPORTING Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information in the Annual Report and Financial Statements is: materially inconsistent with the information in the audited financial statements: or apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, our knowledge of the company acquired in the course of performing our audit: or otherwise misleading.
ADEQUACY OF ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND INFORMATION AND EXPLANATIONS RECEIVED Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT COMPANIES ACT 2006 OPINION In our opinion, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
OTHER COMPANIES ACT 2006 REPORTING Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made.
220 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND THE AUDIT OUR RESPONSIBILITIES AND THOSE OF THE DIRECTORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 129, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
WHAT AN AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVOLVES We conducted our audit in accordance with ISAs UK & Ireland.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Mediclinic International plc for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Giles Hannam Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 23 May 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 221 COMPANY STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as a t 31 March 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m Non-current assets Investment in subsidiaries 3 5 916 5 916 Current assets Amounts due from related parties 4 47 Cash and cash equivalents 34 Total current assets 34 47 Total assets 5 950 5 963 Equity Share capital 5 74 74 Capital redemption reserve 5 6 6 Share premium 5 690 690 Retained earnings 5 5 154 4 899 Share-based payment reserve 5 1 1 Treasury shares 5 2 2 5 923 5 668 Current liabilities Other payables 1 3 Amount due to related parties 4 26 26 Bank borrowing 7 265 Derivatives payable 1 27 295 5 950 5 963 These financial statements as set out on pages 221 to 230 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and signed on their behalf by: DP Meintjes PJ Myburgh Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 23 May 2017 23 May 2017 Mediclinic International plc Company no 08338604 The notes on pages 224 to 230 form an integral part of these financial statements.
222 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year period ended 31 March Retained Capital earnings  Share tion Share lated payment Treasury capital reserve premium losses reserve shares Total m m m m m m m At 1 January 2015 12 448 1 2 461 Profit for the period 91 91 Transactions with owners of the company: Reduction of share premium 448 448 Special dividends declared 383 383 Dividends paid in the year 2015 15 15 Reversal of share-based payment reserve 1 1 Addition of share-based payment reserve 1 1 Tender offer repurchase of shares 6 6 523 6 529 Remgro subscription 7 593 600 Repurchase of Mediclinic shares 61 5 385 5 446 Addition to treasury shares 2 2 Settlement of share-based payment reserve 2 2 Addition to share-based payment reserve 1 1 Transfer of share premium capital reduction 4 765 4 765 At 31 March 2016 74 6 690 4 899 1 2 5 668 At 1 April 2016 74 6 690 4 899 1 2 5 668 Profit for the year 317 317 Dividends paid in the year 62 62 At 31 March 2017 74 6 690 5 154 1 2 5 923 The notes on pages 224 to 230 form an integral part of these financial statements.
COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 223 COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS for the year period ended 31 March 12 months 15 months ended ended 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Notes m m Operating activities Profit before tax 317 91 Adjustments for: Finance costs 6 6 Other income 6 27 Loss from derivatives instruments 1 Dividend income 303 147 Net cash used in operating activities before movements 7 49 in working capital Change in balances with related parties 47 13 Change in other payables 2 1 Change in derivatives 1 Net cash generated from used in operating activities 37 35 Investing activities Dividend received 303 99 Repurchase of shares 530 Issue of shares 600 Special dividends paid 383 Net cash generated from used in financing activities 303 214 Financing activities Obtaining a bank loan 313 Repayment of bank loan 7 265 46 Payment of facility fees of bank loan 5 Settlement of share option reserve 2 Interest paid 6 2 Dividend paid 35 15 Net cash used in generated from financing activities 306 243 Net movement in cash and cash equivalents 34 6 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year period 6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year period 34 The notes on pages 224 to 230 form an integral part of these financial statements.
224 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 March 2017 1.
STATUS AND ACTIVITY Mediclinic International plc the Company or Parent is a Company which was incorporated in England and Wales on 20 December 2012.
The address of the registered office of the Company is C O Capita Company Secretarial Services, 1st Floor, 40 Dukes Place, London, EC3A 7NH.
The registered number of the Company is 08338604.
There is no ultimate controlling party.
The domicile of the Company is the United Kingdom.
The Company is a public liability company with three operating platforms in Southern Africa South Africa and Namibia, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates.
The activities of the subsidiaries are the operation of medical hospitals and clinics and the sale of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and related equipment.
These financial statements are the separate financial statements of the Parent Company only and the financial statements of the Group are prepared and presented separately.
The financial statements are available at the registered office of the Company.
BASIS OF PREPARATION The Companys principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are the same as those set out in note 2 of the Groups financial statements, except as noted below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
The Company is taking advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the UK Companies Act not to present its individual income statement as part of these financial statements.
a Statement of compliance The financial statements includes activities for the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2017 the year.
The comparative information include activities for the period from 1 January 2015 to 31 March 2016 the period.
b Basis of measurement The financial statements of the Company are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, including IFRS Interpretations Committee IFRS IC applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments to fair value.
c Functional and presentation currency The financial statements and financial information are presented in pound, rounded to the nearest million.
d Going concern The Companys financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors believe that the Company will continue to be in operation in the foreseeable future.
