INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 135 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 3.
Valuation of associate interest in Spire refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 117 and notes 8 and 30 in the Group Financial Statements Mediclinic acquired an interest of 29.9% in Spire We obtained the report issued by the external Healthcare Group plc Spire for a consideration valuation expert engaged by the Group to perform of 437m in the prior financial year.
We focused on the notional purchase price allocation and to assist the valuation of the investment in Spire, directing with the identification of identifiable assets acquired.
our attention in particular at the following areas: Using our own valuation specialists, we assessed the process and methodology adopted by managements expert and the underlying assumptions and tested the A notional purchase price allocation is required to split the total purchase consideration mathematical accuracy of the valuation model.
between tangible assets acquired, intangible We substantively tested the equity accounted results assets identified on acquisition and goodwill.
of Spire recorded by the Group with reference to As the investment is accounted for using the the audited financial statements of Spire for the year equity method, net assets of the investee ended 31 December 2016.
We instructed the auditors are not recognised in the Groups statement of Spire to perform specified procedures to support of financial position, but the share of profits our assessment of Spires results equity accounted by equity accounted is affected by adjustments the Group.
such as additional depreciation due to fair value adjustments to tangible assets at We read recent press reports of Spire and discussed acquisition and the amortisation of intangible with the Groups representative who sits on the board assets identified and recognised separately of Spire any significant or abnormal transactions from goodwill.
The Group finalised its notional that occurred in the period from 1 January 2017 to purchase price allocation with the assistance 31 March 2017, being the period not equity accounted of an independent expert during the current by the Group, which could have had an effect on financial year.
Separately identifiable intangible the results and carrying value of the associate at assets amounting to 68 million were valued as 31 March 2017. a result of this exercise.
Judgement is involved in notionally allocating the purchase price to the We evaluated the share performance of Spire over the tangible and intangible assets identified in the period since acquisition with reference to its reported acquisition together with the valuation of the financial performance.
We met with the Groups intangible assets requiring specialist skills and nominated director on the Spire board to understand knowledge: whether any indicators of impairment exist based on the underlying performance of the business and we inspected the latest available financial reports The equity accounted earnings of Spire that of Spire.
We obtained analyst consensus forecasts are included in the income statement of the of the Spire share price over the next twelve Group represent the year ended 31 December months to understand third party expectations 2016 consistent with Spires financial year-end, of future performance.
which is not co-terminous with Mediclinics 31 March 2017 year-end.
The equity accounting for Spire lags the Groups reporting period by three months as allowed by IAS 28.
Application of this policy means that the Group needs to consider whether there were any significant developments at Spire between 1 January 2017 and 31 March 2017, the date to which the Group draws its consolidated financial statements: and 136 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 3.
Valuation of associate interest in Spire continued At 31 March 2017, the carrying value of the Deploying our valuation specialists, we obtained investment in Spire exceeded the listed market managements impairment assessment and value of the investment, which could indicate a tested the reasonableness of key assumptions underpinning managements value in use valuation possible impairment.
The Group assessed the of the Groups investment of Spire, including cash recoverable amount of the investment based flow forecasts and the selection of growth rates on a value in use calculation and concluded that and discount rates.
We challenged management to no impairment loss was required.
We focused substantiate its assumptions, including comparing on this area because judgement and estimation relevant assumptions to third party data and are involved in the impairment assessment.
carrying value of the investment is contingent on future cash flows and there is a risk that the We evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to investment will be impaired if these cash flows ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes do not meet expectations.
In addition, significant to key assumptions on the available headroom.
We transactions or events that occur between evaluated the disclosure regarding the sensitivity of the Spires year-end and the Groups reporting date impairment judgement to reasonably possible changes may have an impact on the carrying value of the in the key assumptions underlying the impairment investment.
Based on our work performed, we concurred with management that no impairment loss is required to the investment at 31 March 2017 and we did not identify any significant or abnormal transactions that affect the period from 1 January 2017 through 31 March 2017.
We found the judgements and estimates made by management to be materially reasonable and the related disclosures to be appropriate.
