Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and theFinancial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual and the Group and parent company financial statements in financial report accordance with applicable law and regulations.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Group and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements for each financial year.
applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair Under that law they are required to prepare the Groups financial viewof the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU consolidation taken as a whole: and andapplicable law and they have elected to prepare the parent the Strategic Report Directors Report includes a fair review company financial statements on the same basis.
Under ofthe development and performance of the business and the company law the Directors must not approve the financial position of the Company and the undertakings included in the statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the parent ofthe principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Inpreparing each of the Group and parent company financial We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, statements for each financial year, the Directors are required to: is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the Groups position and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them performance, business model and strategy.
consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Ian Kellett The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Group Chief Executive Officer records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent 24 May 2017 companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Group website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81
