Additional information Shareholder information Financial calendar Table 125 2017 1 2016 17 Final dividend Ex-dividend date 22 June Record date 23 June Last day for DRIP elections receipt of DRIP application 6 July Payment date 27 July 2 Annual General Meeting 13 July 3 2017 18 First quarterly interim dividend Record date 8 September Payment date 6 October 2017 18 Half-yearly results announcement 14 November 4 2017 18 Second quarterly interim dividend Record date 1 December 2018 Payment date 5 January 4 2017 18 Third quarterly interim dividend Record date 9 March Payment date 6 April 2017 18 Financial year end 31 March 4 2017 18 Annual results announcement 15 May 1.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 11.7p per ordinary share, payable wholly as a Property Income Distribution, subject to shareholders approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.00 am on Thursday, 13 July 2017 at 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL.
A separate circular, comprising a letter from the Chairman, Notice of Meeting and explanatory notes in respect of the resolutions proposed, accompanies this Annual Report.
Copies of this document can also be found on the Companys website at: www.
The Board has declared a first quarterly dividend of 9.85p pence per ordinary share payable wholly as a Property Income Distribution.
Including 10,495,131 shares held in Treasury by the Company.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 183 Shareholder information continued Ordinary shares Payment of dividends to UK resident shareholders The Companys ordinary shares, each of nominal value 10p each, are Shareholders whose dividends are currently sent to their registered traded on the main market for listed securities on the London Stock address may wish to consider having their dividends paid directly into Exchange LON:LAND.
their personal bank or building society account.
This has a number The Companys American Depositary Receipt Programme was of advantages, including the crediting of cleared funds on the actual terminated on 1 September 2016. dividend payment date.
If you would like your future dividends paid in this way, you should contact the Registrar or complete a mandate instruction Company website: www.
com investors and return it to the Registrar.
The Companys Annual Report, results announcements and presentations Under this arrangement, dividend confirmations are still sent to your are available to view and download from its website.
Information can also be found there about the latest Land Securities share price and dividend information, news about the Company, its Payment of dividends to non-UK resident shareholders properties and operations, and how to obtain further information.
Instead of waiting for a sterling cheque to arrive by post, shareholders can request that their dividends be paid directly to a personal bank account Registrar: Equiniti overseas.
This is a service which the Registrar can arrange in over 30 For assistance with queries about administration of shareholdings, different countries worldwide, and in local currencies, and it normally costs such as lost share certificates, change of address or personal details, less than paying in a sterling cheque.
For more information, you should amalgamation of accounts and dividend payments, please contact the contact the Registrar on 44 0 121 415 7049 or download an application Companys Registrar: form online at www.
Alternatively, you can contact the Registrar at the address given above.
Equiniti Group PLC Aspect House Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Spencer Road The DRIP gives shareholders the opportunity to use cash dividends to Lancing increase their shareholding in Land Securities Group PLC.
It is a convenient West Sussex BN99 6DA and cost-effective facility provided by Equiniti Financial Services Limited.
1 Telephone: 0371 384 2128 Under the DRIP, cash dividends are used to buy shares in the market as 1 International dialing: 44 0 121 415 7049 soon as possible after the dividend payment, with any residual cash being www.
co. uk carried forward to the next dividend payment.
Details of the DRIP, including terms and conditions and participation An online share management service is available which enables election forms, are available at www.
shareholders to access details of their Land Securities Group PLC shareholdings electronically.
com They are also available from: investors or www.
co. uk Dividend Reinvestment Plans Equiniti Group PLC e-Communication Aspect House We encourage shareholders to consider receiving their communications Spencer Road from the Company electronically as this will enable you to receive it Lancing more quickly and securely.
It also allows Landsec to communicate in West Sussex a more environmentally friendly and cost-effective manner.
To register BN99 6DA for this service, you should go to www.
com investors or 1 Telephone: 0371 384 2268 www.
co. uk 1 International dialling: 44 0 121 415 7173 UK Real Estate Investment Trust REIT taxation and status Share dealing facilities on payment of dividends Equiniti provides both existing and prospective UK shareholders with an As a UK REIT, Landsec does not pay corporation tax on rental profit and easy to access and simple-to-use share dealing facility for buying and chargeable gains relating to property rental business.
selling shares in Land Securities Group PLC by telephone, online or post.
However, it is required to distribute at least 90% of its qualifying The telephone and online dealing service allows shareholders to trade income as Property Income Distributions PIDs.
A REIT may in addition real-time at a known price that will be given to them at the time they pay ordinary dividends and this will be treated in the same way as give their instruction.
For telephone dealing, call 0345 603 7037 between 8.00am and UK shareholders will be taxed on PIDs received at their full marginal 4.30pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and tax rates and on ordinary dividends received in line with the dividend Wales.
Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will tax regime introduced by the Government on 6 April 2016 for more vary by provider.
Calls outside the UK will be charged at the applicable information see www.
For online dealing, log on to www.
co. uk For most shareholders, PIDs will be paid after deducting withholding 1 dealing.
For postal dealing, call 0371 384 2248 for full details and a dealing tax at the basic rate.
Existing shareholders will need to provide the account However, certain categories of shareholder may be able to receive shareholder reference number shown on their share certificate.
Other PIDs gross i. e. without deduction of withholding tax.
These categories brokers, banks and building societies also offer similar share dealing areprincipally UK companies, charities, local authorities, UK pension facilities.
schemes and managers of ISAs, PEPs and Child Trust Funds.
Further information on UK REITs and the forms required to be completed to apply for PIDs to be paid gross are available on the Companys website or from the Registrar.
184 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Additional information ShareGift Unsolicited mail Shareholders with only a small number of shares, the value of The Company is obliged by law to make its share register available which makes it uneconomic to sell them, may wish to consider on request to other organisations and this may result in shareholders donating them to the charity through ShareGift, a registered charity receiving unsolicited mail.
To limit the receipt of unsolicited mail, No.
1052686 which specialises in using such holdings for charitable shareholders may register with the Mailing Preference Service, an benefit.
A ShareGift donation form can be obtained from the independent organisation whose services are free, by visiting Registrar and further information about ShareGift is available at www.
uk or by writing to: Shareholder security Over the past few months, some of our shareholders have received ShareGift unsolicited telephone calls or correspondence concerning investment The Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited 17 Carlton House Terrace matters from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have London SW1Y 5AH some connection with the Company.
These are typically from purported Telephone: 44 0 20 7930 3737 brokers who offer to buy shares at a price often far in excess of their market value.
These operations are commonly known as boiler rooms.
Corporate Individual Savings Account ISA Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any offers of unsolicited The Company has in place a Corporate ISA which is managed by: advice, discounted shares, premium prices for shares they own or free reports into the Company.
If you receive any such unsolicited calls, Equiniti Financial Services Limited correspondence or investment advice: Aspect House ensure you get the correct name of the person and firm: Spencer Road check that the firm is on the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Lancing Register to ensure they are authorised at www.
uk: West Sussex BN99 6DA use the details on the FCA Register to contact the firm: 1 Telephone: 0371 384 2244 call the FCA Consumer Helpline 0800 111 6768 if there are no contact details in the Register or you are told they are out of date: and Capital Gains Tax if you feel uncomfortable with the call or the calls persist, For the purpose of Capital Gains Tax, the price of a Land Securities simply hang up.
share at 31 March 1982, adjusted for the capitalisation issue in November 1983 and the Scheme of Arrangement in September 2002, Additionally, feel free to report and or discuss any shareholder was 203p.
On the assumption that the 5 for 8 Rights Issue in March 2009 security matters with the Company.
To do this, please call was taken up in full, the adjusted price for Capital Gains Tax purposes 44 0 20 7413 9000 and ask to be put through to a member of would be 229p per share.
Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm UK time, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
The Company participates in the Unclaimed Assets Register, which Callsare charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside theUK will be charged at the applicable international rate.
provides a search facility for financial assets which may have been forgotten.
For further information, contact: The Unclaimed Assets Register Telephone: 44 0 333 000 0182 email: uarenquiries@uk.
co. uk Landsec Annual Report 2017 185
