Additional information Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Adjusted EPS Gearing Net initial yield Earnings per share based on revenue profit after related tax.
Total borrowings, including bank overdrafts, less short-term Net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups external valuer deposits, corporate bonds and cash, at book value, plus of the yield that would be received by a purchaser, based on Adjusted net assets per share cumulative fair value movements on financial derivatives as the Estimated Net Rental Income expressed as a percentage Net assets per share adjusted to remove the effect of apercentage of total equity.
For adjusted gearing, see note 20. of the acquisition cost, being the market value plus assumed the fide-recognition of the 2004 bond exchange and usual purchasers costs at the reporting date.
The calculation cumulative fairvalue movements on interest-rate swaps and Gross market value is in linewith EPRA guidance.
Estimated Net Rental Income similarinstruments.
Market value plus assumed usual purchasers costs at the is determined by the valuer and is based on the passing cash reporting date.
Adjusted net debt rentless ground rent at the balance sheet date, estimated nonNet debt excluding cumulative fair value movements on Head lease recoverable outgoings and void costs including service charges, interest-rate swaps, the adjustment arising from the fideA lease under which the Group holds an investment property.
insurance costs and void rates.
recognition of the bond exchange and amounts payable under Interest Cover Ratio ICR Net rental income finance leases.
It generally includes the net debt of subsidiaries A calculation of a companys ability to meet its interest Net rental income is the net operational income arising from and joint ventures on a proportionate basis.
It is calculated using revenue properties, on an accruals basis, including rental income, Book value profit before interest, divided by net interest excluding the finance lease interest, rents payable, service charge income The amount at which assets and liabilities are reported in the mark-to-market movement on interest-rate swaps, foreign andexpense, other property related income, direct property financial statements.
exchange swaps, bond exchange fide-recognition, capitalised expenditure and bad debts.
Net rental income is presented on interest and interest on the pension scheme assets and aproportionate basis.
The calculation excludes joint ventures.
Building Research Establishments Environmental Over-rented AssessmentMethod.
IPD Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
Refers to the MSCI IPD Direct Property indexes which measure Combined Portfolio Passing cash rent the property level investment returns in the UK.
The Combined Portfolio comprises the investment properties of The estimated annual rent receivable as at the reporting date the Groups subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated basis Interest-rate swap which includes estimates of turnover rent and estimates of when not wholly owned, together with our share of investment A financial instrument where two parties agree to exchange rent to be agreed in respect of outstanding rent review or properties held in our joint ventures.
aninterest rate obligation for a predetermined amount of time.
Passing cash rent may be more These are generally used by the Group to convert floating-rate or less than the ERV see over-rented, reversionary and ERV.
Completed developments debt or investments to fixed rates.
Passing cash rent excludes annual rent receivable from units in Completed developments consist of those properties previously administration save to the extent that rents are expected to be included in the development programme, which have been Investment portfolio received.
Void units and units that are in a rent-free period at transferred from the development programme since 1 April 2015.
The investment portfolio comprises the investment properties the reporting date are deemed to have no passing cash rent.
of the Groups subsidiaries, on a proportionately consolidated Development pipeline Although temporary lets of less than 12 months are treated basis where not wholly owned.
The development programme together with asvoid, income from temporary lets is included in passing proposeddevelopments.
An arrangement in which the Group holds an interest and Development programme Planning permission which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more The development programme consists of committed There are two common types of planning permission: full partners under a contractual arrangement.
Decisions on the developments Board approved projects with the building planning permission and outline planning permission.
A full activities of the joint venture that significantly affect the joint contract let, authorised developments Board approved, planning permission results in a decision on the detailed ventures returns, including decisions on financial and operating projects under construction and developments which have proposals on how the site can be developed.
The grant of a policies and the performance and financial position of the reached practical completion within the last two years but are fullplanning permission will, subject to satisfaction of any operation, require the unanimous consent of the partners not yet 95% let.
conditions, mean no further engagement with the local sharing control.
Diluted figures planning authority will be required to build the consented Lease incentives Reported results adjusted to include the effects of potentially development.
An outline planning permission approves Any incentive offered to occupiers to enter into a lease.
Typically, dilutive shares issuable under employee share schemes.
general principles of how a site can be developed.
Outline the incentive will be an initial rent-free period, or a cash planning permission is granted subject to conditions known Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP contribution to fit-out or similar costs.
For accounting purposes as reserved matters.
Consent must be sought and achieved The DRIP provides shareholders with the opportunity to use cash the value of the incentive is spread over the non-cancellable life for discharge of all reserved matters within a specified timedividends received to purchase additional ordinary shares in the of the lease.
limit, normally three years from the date outline planning Company immediately after the relevant dividend payment LIBOR permission was granted, before building can begin.
Full details appear on the Companys website.
The London Interbank Offered Rate, the interest rate charged case of full andoutline planning permission, the local planning Earnings per share by one bank to another for lending money, often used as a authority will resolve to grant permission.
At this stage, the Profit after taxation attributable to owners of the parent reference rate in bank facilities.
planning permission is granted subject to agreement of legal divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in documents, in particular the s106 agreement.
On execution Like-for-like portfolio issue during the year.
ofthe s106 agreement, the planning permission will be issued.
The like-for-like portfolio includes all properties which have been EPRA Work can begin on satisfaction of any pre-commencement in the portfolio since 1 April 2015, but excluding those which are European Public Real Estate Association.
acquired, sold or included in the development pipeline at any EPRA net initial yield time since that date.
Pre-let EPRA net initial yield is defined within EPRAs Best Practice A lease signed with an occupier prior to completion of Loan-to-value LTV Recommendations as the annualised rental income based adevelopment.
Group LTV is the ratio of adjusted net debt, including onthe cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less nonsubsidiaries and joint ventures, to the sum of the market Pre-development properties recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the gross valueof investment properties and the book value of trading Pre-development properties are those properties within market value of the property.
It is consistent with the netinitial properties of the Group, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, all the like-for-like portfolio which are being managed to align yield calculated by the Groups external valuer.
ona proportionate basis, expressed as a percentage.
For the vacant possession within a three year horizon with a view to Equivalent yield Security Group, LTV is the ratio of net debt lent to the Security redevelopment.
Calculated by the Groups external valuer, equivalent yield is Group divided by the value of secured assets.
Property Income Distribution PID the internal rate of return from an investment property, based Market value A PID is a distribution by a REIT to its shareholders paid out of on the gross outlays for the purchase of a property including Market value is determined by the Groups external valuer, in qualifying profits.
A REIT is required to distribute at least 90% purchase costs, reflecting reversions to current market rent accordance with the RICS Valuation Standards, as an opinion ofits qualifying profits as a PID to its shareholders.
and such items as voids and non-recoverable expenditure of the estimated amount for which a property should exchange Proposed developments but ignoring future changes in capital value.
The calculation on the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing Proposed developments are properties which have not yet assumes rent is received annually in arrears.
seller in an arms-length transaction after proper marketing.
received final Board approval or are still subject to main ERV Gross estimated rental value Mark-to-market adjustment planning conditions being satisfied, but which are more likely The estimated market rental value of lettable space as An accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset toproceed than not.
determined biannually by the Groups external valuer.
For or liability to its market value see also fair value movement.
Qualifying activities Qualifying assets investment properties in the development programme, which Net assets per share The ownership activity of property assets which is held to have not yet reached practical completion, the ERV represents Equity attributable to owners of the parent divided by the earn rental income and qualifies for tax-exempt treatment managements view of market rents.
number of ordinary shares in issue at the year end.
Net assets income and capital gains under UK REIT legislation.
Fair value movement per share is also commonly known as net asset value per share Real Estate Investment Trust REIT An accounting adjustment to change the book value NAV per share.
A REIT must be a publicly quoted company with at least threeof an asset or liability to its market value see also quarters of its profits and assets derived from a qualifying mark-to-market adjustment.
Income and capital gains from Finance lease the property rental business are exempt from tax but the A lease that transfers substantially all the risks and rewards REIT is required to distribute at least 90% of those profits to ofownership from the lessor to the lessee.
Corporation tax is payable on non-qualifying activities in the normal way.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 187 Glossary continued Rental value change Total development cost TDC Increase or decrease in the current rental value, as determined Total development cost refers to the book value of the site by the Groups external valuer, over the reporting period on a at the commencement of the project, the estimated capital like-for-like basis.
expenditure required to develop the scheme from the start ofthe financial year in which the property is added to our Rental income development programme, together with capitalised interest, Rental income is as reported in the income statement, on being the Groups borrowing costs associated with direct an accruals basis, and adjusted for the spreading of lease expenditure on the property under development.
Interest is incentives over the term certain of the lease in accordance with alsocapitalised on the purchase cost of land or property where SIC 15.
It is stated gross, prior to the deduction of ground rents it is acquired specifically for redevelopment.
The TDC for trading and without deduction for operational outgoings on car park property development schemes excludes any estimated tax and commercialisation activities.
Return on average capital employed Total property return Group profit before net finance expense, plus joint venture Valuation movement, profit loss on property sales and net profit before net finance expense, divided by the average rental income in respect of investment properties expressed as capital employed defined as shareholders funds plus adjusted a percentage of opening book value, together with the time net debt.
weighted value for capital expenditure incurred during the Return on average equity current period, on the combined property portfolio.
Group profit before tax plus joint venture tax divided by the Total Shareholder Return TSR average equity shareholders funds.
The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, Revenue profit assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional Profit before tax, excluding profits on the sale of non-current units of the stock.
assets and trading properties, profits on long-term development Trading properties contracts, valuation movements, fair value movements on Properties held for trading purposes and shown as current interest-rate swaps and similar instruments used for hedging assets in the balance sheet.
purposes, the adjustment to finance expense resulting from the amortisation of the bond exchange fide-recognition Turnover rent adjustment, debt restructuring charges, and any other items of Rental income which is related to an occupiers turnover.
Valuation surplus deficit Reversionary or under-rented The valuation surplus deficit represents the increase or decrease Space where the passing rent is below the ERV.
in the market value of the Combined Portfolio, adjusted for net investment.
The market value of the Combined Portfolio is Reversionary yield determined by the Groups external valuer.
The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent reaches the ERV.
Voids Voids are expressed as a percentage of ERV and represent all Scrip dividend unlet space, including voids where refurbishment work is being A scrip dividend is when shareholders are offered the carried out and voids in respect of pre-development properties.
opportunity to receive dividends in the form of shares instead Temporary lettings for a period of one year or less are also ofcash.
Security Group Weighted average cost of capital WACC Security Group is the principal funding vehicle for the Group Weighted average cost of debt and notional cost of equity, andproperties held in the Security Group are mortgaged for usedas a benchmark to assess investment returns.
It has the flexibility to raise a variety of different forms of finance.
Weighted average unexpired lease term The weighted average of the unexpired term of all leases other Temporary lettings than short-term lettings such as car parks and advertising Lettings for a period of one year or less.
These are included hoardings, temporary lettings of less than one year, residential within voids.
leases and long ground leases.
Topped-up net initial yield Yield shift Topped-up net initial yield is a calculation by the Groups A movement negative or positive in the equivalent yield of external valuer.
It is calculated by making an adjustment to aproperty asset.
netinitial yield in respect of the annualised cash rent foregone through unexpired rent-free periods and other lease incentives.
Zone A The calculation is consistent with EPRA guidance.
A means of analysing and comparing the rental value of retail space by dividing it into zones parallel with the main frontage.
Total business return The most valuable zone, Zone A, is at the front of the unit.
Dividend paid per share in the year plus the change in adjusted Eachsuccessive zone is valued at half the rate of the zone diluted net assets per share, divided by adjusted diluted net infront of it.
assets per share at the beginning of the year.
Total cost ratio Total cost ratio represents all costs included within revenue profit, other than rents payable and financing costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental income before rents payable.
188 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Land Securities Group PLC Cautionary statement Copyright and trade mark notices.
Copyright 2017 Land Securities Group PLC This Annual Report and Landsecs website may contain Landsec, Land Securities, the Cornerstone certain forward-looking statements with respect to Land logo, the L Logo and Everything is Securities Group PLC Company and the Groups financial experience are trade marks of the Land condition, results of its operations and business, and certain Securities Group of companies.
plans, strategy, objectives, goals and expectations with Landsec is the trading name of Land respect to these items and the economies and markets in Securities Group PLC.
All other trade marks and registered trade Forward-looking statements are sometimes, but not marks are the property of their respective owners.
always, identified by their use of a date in the future or such words as anticipates, aims, due, could, may, should, Produced by Brightsource Limited, a Cello Signal company.
will, would, expects, believes, intends, plans, targets, goal or estimates or, in each case, their negative or other Printed by CPI Colour.
Forward-looking Cover and text printed on Munken Design statements are not guarantees of future performance.
By Kristall Smooth which is produced from FSCand PEFC certified wood pulps and their very nature, forward-looking statements are inherently manufactured at a paper mill which has unpredictable, speculative and involve risk and uncertainty ISO14001, EU Ecolabel and EMAS because they relate to events and depend on circumstances certification for environmental standards.
that will occur in the future.
Many of these assumptions, Independently certified on behalf of the risks and uncertainties relate to factors that are beyond the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
Groups ability to control or estimate precisely.
There are a number of such factors that could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, changes in the political conditions, economies and markets in which the Group operates including the outcome of the negotiations to leave the EU : changes in the legal, regulatory and competition frameworks in which the Group operates: changes in the markets from which the Group raises finance: the impact of legal or other proceedings against or which affect the Group: changes in accounting practices and interpretation of accounting standards under IFRS, and changes in interest and exchange rates.
Design: Any forward-looking statements made in this Annual mslgroup.
co. uk Report or Landsecs website, or made subsequently, which Words: are attributable to the Company or any other member of Tim Rich and Landsec the Group, or persons acting on their behalf, are expressly Photography: Philippa Langley qualified in their entirety by the factors referred to above.
Luke Hayes Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the David Hares date it is made.
Except as required by its legal or statutory Joseph Fox obligations, the Company does not intend to update any forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report or Landsecs website should be construed as a profit forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of the Company.
Land Securities Group PLC 100 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL 44 0 20 7413 9000 www.
