22 Strategic Report Priority #4 Continue cost savings and maintain balance sheet strength to bring greater incremental choice and expenditure of 38 million.
However, in line In line with other UK quality into each of our stores, while reducing with our strategy, this is significantly lower retailers, we anticipate that duplication and products previously on multithan the average capital expenditure in the buy or high-low promotion.
Changes we previous five years of 931 million.
cost pressures will continue have made to our in-store operating model The Group has financing facilities of have helped to reduce costs throughout our over the next few years 3.9 billion, of which only 2.7 billion was store estate.
These are from the price of raw materials As retailers we must continually respond diverse funding sources in order to minimise and energy is increasing, to the changes in the way people shop and refinancing risk and to maintain appropriate continue to identify how we can meet our contingent liquidity.
We have also concluded along with wages and customers needs while also achieving our the Sainsburys pension scheme triennial cost savings target.
We have identified a valuation and recovery payments will business rates.
number of areas where we believe we can increase by 6 million to 84 million per Across our business we are focused on deliver significant savings at pace.
As part of the acquisition of Home finding ways to mitigate the impact of rising include: Retail Group plc, we will also be paying costs so that we can continue to deliver for recovery payments of 40 million per year Improving product availability throughout customers, colleagues and shareholders.
to the Home Retail Group plc defined benefit the supply chain pension scheme until October 2021.
Making our checkouts more efficient, We continue to find ways to simplify our easier and faster to use business and reduce costs.
We have achieved The Board has recommended a final dividend 130 million of cost savings this year, 355 Using improved technology to eliminate of 6.6 pence per share 2015 16: 8.1 pence, million in the last two years, and by the end unnecessary complexity in some aspects making a full-year dividend of 10.2 pence of 2017 18 we will have delivered our target of of the in-store experience, making it faster per share 2015 16: 12.1 pence, covered two 500m of cost savings over three years across and more efficient for both customers and times by underlying earnings, in line with our business.
We are committed to a further colleagues Sainsburys policy to pay an affordable 500 million cost savings over the next three dividend.
Over the last five years Sainsburys Simplifying our offer so that we can years, starting in 2018 19. has paid a total dividend of 69.5 pence per deliver the food and groceries our share, returning over 1.4 billion of cash customers want, whenever and wherever Our focus on efficiency and cost reduction to shareholders.
they want them will allow us to continue to invest in the value of our proposition and the development Like-for-like transactions These are all areas we can address with agile of our colleagues as well as provide our The structural change in the market means solutions that we can test and deliver at shareholders with a return on the investment that customers have more choice than pace, using technology whenever possible.
they have made in Sainsburys.
ever when it comes to doing their grocery In whatever we do, our colleagues and shopping.
This means that like-for-like customers will remain firmly at the forefront Sainsburys food and grocery transactions are at risk and we need to ensure of our thinking.
operations that we execute our strategy effectively.
Over the last three years we have made Customers will then continue to see that we Balance sheet strength significant progress in developing our food offer great products at great prices.
Our balance sheet remains strong with and grocery proposition.
We have simplified a significant reduction in net debt and Definition: Year-on-year growth in our prices and replaced multi-buys with high levels of liquidity.
We have reduced transactions from stores that have been lower regular prices helping customers net debt by 349 million in the year to open for at least a year.
avoid waste at home and enabling us to 1,477 million.
The reduction is as a result forecast demand more accurately.
We of continued strong cash generation from Like-for-like transactions % have invested in the quality of over 3,000 our retail operations, the financing of the Sainsburys branded products and shortened acquisition of Home Retail Group plc and 2014 15 0.0 the time it takes to get innovative new food further working capital improvements, offset 2015 16 0.3 ranges on to our shelves.
We source directly by exceptional pension payments, capital from farmers and growers and use cuttingexpenditure and dividends.
Group core retail 2016 17 1.3 edge technology to forecast demand to capital expenditure of 547 million was in line give our food extra shelf life.
We have also with last year 2015 16: 542 million, even invested in our ranging strategy and tools with the addition of Argos core retail capital Strategic Report 23 349m We reduced net debt by Reduction in spend on 349 million to 1,477 million property in favour of digital and IT infrastructure 500m On track for 500million cost savings by 2017 18.
Committed to a further three-year reduction of The Group has financing 500 million from 2018 19 facilities of 3.9 billion, of which only 2.7 billion was drawn at the year-end
