192 Financial Statements Glossary Glossary FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
Method of valuing a financial Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help inspire school children to take instrument where changes in fair value are recognised directly in the income more exercise and to eat more healthily.
Launched in 2005, Active Kids is statement.
open to all nursery, primary and secondary schools as well as Scouts and Girl Guides in the UK.
co. uk activekids Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
Annual General Meeting AGM This year the AGM will be held on IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee.
Wednesday 5 July 2017 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standard s. Argos Financial Services ARG Personal Loans Limited: Home Joint venture JV A business jointly owned by two or more parties.
Retail Group Card Services Limited: and Home Retail Group Insurance Services Limited.
Kantar Worldpanel Kantar An independent third party providing data on the UK Grocery Market.
basics Sainsburys entry level own-brand range of products.
Live Well for Less Sainsburys customer commitment to continue to help bps Basis points.
people live the life they want to live, with quality products at fair prices.
by Sainsburys Core own label brand.
Click & Collect Service which allows customers to place general MSC Marine Stewardship Council.
merchandise and grocery orders online for collection in-store.
Nectar One of the most popular loyalty schemes in the UK, of which CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities.
Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S The need to act Non-controlling interest The equity in a subsidiary not attributable, responsibly in managing our impact on a range of stakeholders: customers, directly or indirectly, to the Company.
colleagues, investors, suppliers, the community and the environment.
OFT Office of Fair Trading.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by total value of dividends Real discount rate Discount rate less inflation rate.
Earnings Per Share EPS Earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in Taste the Difference Sainsburys premium own-brand range of products.
issue during the year, excluding those held by ESOP Trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The growth in value of a shareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase Fairtrade The Fairtrade label is an independent consumer label that additional units of the stock.
guarantees a fair deal for marginalised workers and small scale farmers in developing countries.
Producers receive a minimum price that covers the cost Tu Sainsburys own label clothing range.
of production and an extra premium that is invested in the local community.
uk Fair value The amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms length transaction.
FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing company, runs the FTSE4Good index series to measure the performance of companies that meet corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies.
com products indices FTSE4Good This report is printed on UPM Fine.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO14001 and is also CarbonNeutral The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
FSC Trademark 1996 Forest Stewardship Council, A. C. Designed by mslgroup.
