186 Financial Statements Additional shareholder information Additional shareholder information Financial calendar Ex-dividend date 11 May 2017 Record date 12 May 2017 Last date for return of revocation of DRIP mandates 16 June 2017 Q1 Trading Statement 4 July 2017 Annual General Meeting 5 July 2017 Payment date and DRIP share purchase 7 July 2017 Interim results announced 8 November 2017 Q3 Trading Statement 10 January 2018 Preliminary Results announced 2 May 2018 Annual General Meeting 11 July 2018 provisional dates The interim dividend was paid on 4 January 2017.
The Notice of the Meeting and the proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with this report.
Registrars For information about the AGM, shareholdings, dividends and to report changes to personal details, shareholders should contact: Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0370 702 0106 Please remember to tell Computershare if you move house or change bank details or if there is any other change to your account information.
You can view and manage your shareholding online at www.
You will require your 11 character Shareholder Reference Number SRN to log in.
Your SRN starts with the letter C or G and is followed by ten numbers.
It can be found on share certificates and dividend confirmations.
Dividends Having your dividends paid directly into your bank or building society account is a more secure way than receiving your dividend by cheque.
If you would prefer your dividends to be paid directly into your bank or building society account further information is available from Computershare Investor Services address and telephone number above.
You will still receive an annual dividend confirmation detailing each dividend to enable you to complete your tax return.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP The Company has a DRIP, which allows shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends in the Companys shares bought in the market through a specially arranged share dealing service.
No new shares are allotted under this DRIP and approximately 30,086 shareholders participate.
Full details of the DRIP and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available from the Registrars.
Alternatively, you can elect to join the DRIP by registering on www.
Annual Dividend Confirmations The Company sends out an Annual Dividend Confirmation ADC in relation to dividend payments.
This means that those shareholders receiving their dividend direct into their bank account will receive an ADC once a year detailing all payments made throughout that year.
Shareholder communications Company website J Sainsbury plc Interim and Annual Reports, and results announcements are available via the internet on our website at www.
As well as providing share price data and financial history, the site also provides background information about the Company, regulatory and news releases, and current issues.
Electronic shareholder communications The Company encourages all shareholders to receive their shareholder communications electronically in order to reduce the impact on the environment.
For each email registration by a Sainsburys shareholder, a donation will be made to the Woodland Trust, the UKs leading woodland conservation charity.
By registering with the eTree programme you will be giving the Company permission to send all shareholder documents to you via email with a link to a secure website.
Alternatively, the Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take advantage of electronic communications.
The service allows you to: view the Annual Report and Financial Statements on the day it is published: receive electronic notification of the availability of future shareholder information you must register your email for this service : check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view your dividend history: and, submit your vote online prior to a general meeting.
You will need your 11 character SRN which can be found on your share certificate or recent dividend confirmation the number is often preceded by the letter C or G. Shareholder security Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company annual reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice, whether over the telephone, through the post or by email: make sure you get the name of the person and organisation: check that they are properly authorised by the FCA before getting involved by visiting https: register.
uk : and, report the matter to the FCA either by calling 0800 111 6768 or by completing an online form at www.
uk consumers  Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information on this or similar activity can be found on the FCA website www.
uk 188 Financial Statements Additional shareholder information continued Share dealing services To buy or sell your J Sainsbury plc ordinary shares, please visit your stockbroker or a high street bank who will usually be able to assist you.
Alternatively, you may consider using: The Share Centre Ltd who offer a postal dealing service.
They can be contacted at The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire HP21 8ZB.
Telephone: 01296 414141 or Freephone 08000 282812 and quote Sainsburys: or, Computershare who offer a telephone and internet facility which gives shareholders the opportunity to trade at a known price.
The telephone service is available from 8.00am to 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays, on telephone number 0370 703 0084.
The internet share dealing service gives shareholders the option to submit instructions to trade online.
More information can be found by visiting www-uk.
Further information and detailed terms and conditions are available on request by calling either provider.
American Depositary Receipts ADRs The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR programme for which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as depositary.
The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in the US under the symbol JSAIY, where one ADR is equal to four ordinary shares.
All enquiries relating to ADRs should be addressed to: BNY Mellon Shareowner Services PO Box 30170 College Station TX 77842-3170 Toll Free Telephone # for domestic callers: 1-888-269-2377 International callers can call: 1-201-680-6825 Website: www.
com ShareGift If you have only a small number of shares which would cost more for you to sell than they are worth, you may wish to consider donating them to the charity ShareGift Registered Charity 1052686 which specialises in accepting such shares as donations.
The relevant stock transfer form may be obtained from Computershare Investor Services PLC.
There are no implications for Capital Gains Tax purposes no gain or loss on gifts of shares to charity.
It is also possible to obtain income tax relief.
Further information about ShareGift may be obtained on 020 7930 3737 or from www.
Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT For CGT purposes, the market value of J Sainsbury plc ordinary shares on 31 March 1982 adjusted for all capital adjustments was 91.99 pence and B shares 10.941 pence.
CGT information on historic Home Retail Group corporate actions can be found in the Investor Section on our website www.
Share capital consolidation 4 The original base cost of shares apportioned between ordinary shares of 28 7 pence and B shares is made by reference to the market value of each class of shares on the first day for which a market value is quoted after the new holding came into existence.
The market value for CGT purposes of any share or security quoted on the Stock Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations on any day plus one quarter of the difference between the values.
On Monday, 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: New ordinary shares 257.5 pence B shares 35 pence Historic share capital consolidation information relating to Home Retail Group can be found in the Investor Section on our website www.
Financial Statements 189 Key contacts and advisers General contact details For general enquiries about Sainsburys Bank call: 0808 540 5060 For any customer enquiries please contact, for Sainsburys, our Sainsburys Customer Careline by calling: 0800 636 262 and for Sainsburys Argos, the Argos helpline by calling: 0345 640 2020 Registered office J Sainsbury plc 33 Holborn London EC1N 2HT Registered number 185647 Investor relations James Collins Head of Investor Relations J Sainsbury plc Store Support Centre 33 Holborn London EC1N 2HT investorrelations2@sainsburys.
co. uk Registrar Computershare Investor Services PLC The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 6ZZ Telephone: 0370 702 0106 www.
co. uk Auditors Ernst & Young LLP 1 More London Place London SE1 2AF Solicitors Linklaters LLP One Silk Street London EC2Y 8HQ Stockbrokers UBS 5 Broadgate London EC2M 2QS Morgan Stanley 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA Cautionary statement Certain statements included in this Annual Report are forward looking and are therefore subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied because they relate to future events.
These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the Companys expectations.
Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and those of our officers, Directors and employees concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the businesses we operate.
Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set out in our forward-looking statements.
The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
