56 Governance Report J Sainsbury plc: Operating Board 1 2 1 Mike Coupe Chief Executive Officer See page 54.
2 Kevin OByrne Chief Financial Officer See page 55.
3 John Rogers Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos See page 55.
4 3 4 Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary & Corporate Services Director Date of appointment: September 2004 Skills and experience: Tim joined Sainsburys in 2001 as Company Secretary and joined the Operating Board in 2004.
In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Tim is responsible for the Corporate Services Division comprising Legal Services, Data Governance, Safety, Shareholder 5 6 Services, Insurance and Central Security.
He chairs the Group Safety Committee and the Data Governance Committee.
Tim joined Sainsburys from Exel plc, the global logistics company, where he was Company Secretary and Head of Legal Services.
He began his career at the international law firm Clifford Chance and is a qualified solicitor.
5 Peter Griffiths, OBE Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Bank Date of appointment: May 2014 7 8 Skills and experience: Peter was appointed CEO of Sainsburys Bank in November 2012 and joined the Operating Board in May 2014.
Prior to joining Sainsburys he was Group Chief Executive of Principality, the largest building society in Wales, growing it from the 13th largest building society in the UK to the 7th, during his decade in charge.
He previously worked for NatWest, and was Chief Operating Officer at Morgan Chambers Plc.
He is former Chairman of the CBI Wales and the Building Societies Association, and is a Fellow of UWIC and 9 The Chartered Institute of Management.
Peter was awarded an OBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours 2010, in recognition of his support for the Financial Services Industry.
Governance Report 57 6 Jon Hartland 9 Richard Newsome Acting Retail and Operations Director Acting Digital and Technology Director Date of appointment: October 2015 Date of appointment: January 2017 Skills and experience: Jon joined Sainsburys Skills and experience: Richard joined in 1986 and held the position of Store Director for the Operating Board in January 2017, with numerous stores until 1996.
He then held a number responsibility for the Digital & Technology Division.
of senior roles before becoming the Change He joined Sainsburys in July 2014 as Director Director in 2002 and later becoming the Central of Operations, from Rolls-Royce where he was Retail Director.
Jon was appointed Director for Nonresponsible for Global IT Programme Delivery.
Food Operations in 2011 and has been acting as the Prior to that Richard had been UK IT Director Retail and Operations Director role since October for Cadbury and Kraft Foods, Client Director for 2015.
He sits on the GS1 apparel Europe board and Xansas IT Outsourcing business, and had a long was previously a Regional manager for Fine Fare career in IT and Business Change at The Boots part of Associated British Foods plc.
7 Paul Mills-Hicks Simon Roberts Food Commercial Director Retail and Operations Director Date of appointment: May 2014 Date of appointment: Simon is due to join the Operating Board in July 2017.
Skills and experience: Paul joined the Operating Board in May 2014 as Food Commercial Director having spent over ten years at Sainsburys.
He was closely involved in the formation and execution of the 'Making Sainsbury's Great Again' strategy.
Following this he held a variety of roles in commercial, strategy and finance, most recently as Business Unit Director for Grocery.
Prior to Sainsburys, Paul was European Controller at Marks and Spencer Group plc and a Director at UBS Warburg.
8 Angie Risley Group HR Director Date of appointment: January 2013 Skills and experience: Angie was appointed Group HR Director and a member of the Operating Board in January 2013 with responsibility for human resources.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Serco Group plc and chairs their Remuneration Committee and is a Director of Sainsbury's Bank plc.
Angie was most recently Group HR Director at Lloyds Banking Group and prior to this an Executive Director of Whitbread plc with responsibility for HR and Corporate Social Responsibility.
She was a member of the Low Pay Commission.
