190 Financial Statements Alternative performance measures Alternative performance measures In response to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA, we have provided additional information on the APMs used by the Group.
The Directors use the below APMs as they are critical to understanding the financial performance and financial health of the Group.
As they are not defined by International Financial Reporting Standards they may not be directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
All APMs relate the current periods results and comparative periods where provided.
APM Definition Reconciliation Cash flows and net debt 2017 2016 Cash flow items in Financial To help the reader understand cash flows Ref m m Review of the business a summarised cash flow statement is included within the financial Net interest A 108 102 review.
As part of this a number of line Property related including B 28 155 items have been combined.
The cash strategic capital expenditure flow in note 4 of the accounts includes HRG acquisition and AFS loan C 457 a reference to show what has been book refinancing combined in these line items.
Repayment of borrowings D 211 363 Other E 10 31 2017 2016 Free cash flow Net cash generated from retail Reconciliation of free cash flow m m operations, adjusted for exceptional pension contributions, after cash capital Cash generated from 929 1,024 expenditure but before strategic capital retail operations expenditure.
Add back: exceptional 199 125 pension contribution Net interest paid 108 102 Corporation tax 87 124 Retail purchase of property, 622 593 plant and equipment and intangibles Retail purchase of 58 34 intangible assets Add back: Strategic capital 92 expenditure Free cash flow 345 296 Operating cash flow Cash generated from operations after A reconciliation is provided in notes 4 and 25 to the accounts.
Retail operating cash flow Retail cash generated from operations A reconciliation of retail operating cash flow is provided in note 4 after changes in working capital of the accounts.
Core retail capital expenditure Capital expenditure excludes Sainsburys A calculation of this is provided in the financial review on page 52.
Bank, Argos exceptional capital expenditure, proceeds from sale and leasebacks and strategic capital expenditure Net debt Net debt excludes the net debt of Financial Services and is calculated as: current available for sale assets current net A reconciliation of net debt is provided in note 26 of the accounts.
derivatives net cash and cash equivalents loans non-current finance lease obligations non-current net derivatives.
Gearing Net debt divided by net assets.
Net assets as per the Group balance sheet.
Financial Statements 191 APM Definition Reconciliation Income statement Like-for-like sales Year-on-year growth in sales including A reconciliation of like-for-like sales is provided on page 47 of the Financial VAT, excluding fuel, excluding Financial Review Services, for stores that have been open for more than one year.
Underlying profit before tax Profit or loss before tax before any A reconciliation of underlying profit before tax is provided in note 3 to the items recognised which, by virtue of accounts.
their size and or nature, do not reflect the Groups underlying performance.
Retail underlying Underlying earnings before interest, tax, A reconciliation of these measures can be found in note 4 of the accounts.
operating profit Financial Services operating profit and Sainsbury's underlying share of post-tax profit from JVs.
Underlying basic earnings Earnings per share using underlying profit A reconciliation of underlying earnings per share is included in note 8 to per share as described above.
EBITDAR and Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, A reconciliation is provided on page 48 of the Financial Review.
underlying EBITDAR amortisation and rent.
Underlying EBITDAR uses underlying earnings.
Other Lease adjusted net debt Net debt plus capitalised lease obligations A reconciliation of this is provided in the financial review on page 53. underlying EBITDAR 5.5% discount rate divided by Group underlying EBITDAR Return on capital employed Return on Capital Employed is calculated A calculation of this is provided on page 53 of the Financial Review.
as Return divided by average Capital Employed.
Return is defined as Underlying Profit before interest and tax.
Capital Employed is defined as Net assets excluding Net debt.
The average is calculated on a 14 point basis.
