Shareholder information Shareholder information Shareholder services Contact details Dividend Reinvestment Plan Dividend payments by BACS Registrars To reinvest your dividend you will We can pay your dividends directly to Capita Asset Services need to sign up for the Dividend your bank or building society account Whitbread Share Register Reinvestment Plan the DRIP.
This means that your The Register terms and conditions of the DRIP dividend will be in your account on 34 Beckenham Road and a shareholder dividend form are thesame day we make the payment.
com Your tax voucher will be posted to your or can be requested from Capita home address.
If you would like to use The website address is Asset Services.
For enquiries this method please ring the Registrars www.
regardingthe DRIP, please telephone on 44 0 344 855 2327.
For enquiries regarding your 44 0 371 664 0381. shareholding, please telephone 44 0 344 855 2327.
Alternatively you can email: whitbread@capita.
You can also manage your shareholding by visiting www.
Dividend history This is a secure online site where you can: p sign up to receive shareholder p information by email: p buy and sell shares via the Capita 1 p Share Dealing Service : p view your holding and get an indicative valuation: and change your personal details.
You will need to have your investor Dividend diary 2017 18 code to hand.
This can be found on thefollowing documentation: Ex-dividend date for final dividend 25 May 2017 share certificate: Record date for final dividend 26 May 2017 DRIP election date 5 June 2017 dividend voucher: or Payment of final dividend 30 June 2017 proxy card.
Ex-dividend date for interim dividend 9 November 2017 Please ensure that you advise Capita Record date for interim dividend 10 November 2017 promptly of any change of address.
DRIP election date 20 November 2017 Payment of interim dividend 15 December 2017 1 Share dealing service For Capita Share Dealing Services you Financial reporting calendar can telephone 44 0 371 664 0445.
Dates subject to confirmation Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider.
Calls from outside the Halfyear end 31 August 2017 UnitedKingdom will be charged Announcement of half-year results 24 October 2017 at theapplicable international rate.
End of financial year 1 March 2018 Capitaareopen from 9:00 to 17:30, Monday to Friday excluding public Capital gains tax holidays in England and Wales.
For further information on: 1 These details have been provided for information only and any action you take is at The market value of shares in the Company as at 31 March 1982: your own risk.
If you are in any doubt about The reduction of Capital on 10 May 2001: and what action to take, please consult your own financial adviser.
Should you not wish to use The special dividend and share consolidation in May 2005, these services you could find a broker in your local area, on the internet, or enquire about or if you require any further information on capital gains tax allocations, please share dealing at any high street bank or building refer to the investors section of the Companys website www.
The availability of this service should not be taken as a recommendation to deal.
Registered office Whitbread PLC Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE General Counsel and CompanySecretary Chris Vaughan Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 172 Shareholder information Shareholder information Analysis of ordinary shares at 2 March 2017 Annual General Meeting 2017 The 2017 AGM will be held at 2pm on Number of % of Number % of share Wednesday 21 June 2017 at Church Band holders holders of shares capital House Conference Centre, Deans Yard, 1-100 23,394 54.67 852,666 0.44 Westminster, London SW1P 3NZ.
The B and C shares will continue to attract an annual dividendpayment.
How can I find the current shareprices?
Share price history You can keep up to date with the current share price at the Companys p website www.
p I have lost my share certificate, p howcan I get a replacement?
p If you have lost your certificate please p contact the Companys registrars, p Capital Asset Services, on the shareholder helpline 44 0 344 855 p 2327.
They will be able to assist you in p arranging a replacement.
p Am I entitled to shareholder benefits?
p Shareholders with a holding of 64 High Low shares or more are eligible to receive ashareholder benefits card.
Those shareholders who registered to receive offers in 2016 should automatically havereceived the card with the Annual Report mailing.
Shareholders who wishto register for a card can do so bycontacting Capita, whose contact details are shown on page 172.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 173 Shareholder information Shareholder information Shareholder services continued Unsolicited mail make sure you get the correct name We are aware that some shareholders of the person or organisation: have had occasion to complain of check that they are properly theuse, by outside organisations, of authorised by the FCA before getting information obtained from Whitbreads involved by visiting www.
Whitbread, like other firms  and companies, cannot by law refuse to contact the firm using the details on supply such information provided that the register: the organisation concerned pays the report the matter to the FCA either appropriate statutory fee.
by calling 0800 111 6768 or visit If you are a resident in the UK and wish scamsmart.
uk: to stop receiving unsolicited mail then if the calls persist, hang up: and you should register with the Mailing Preference Service, telephone: REMEMBER if it sounds too good 0845703 4599 or you can register tobe true it probably is!
uk If you deal with an unauthorised firm, Warning to shareholders youwill not be eligible to receive boilerroomscams payment under the Financial Services In recent years, many companies have Compensation Scheme FSCS if things become aware that their shareholders go wrong.
The FCA can be contacted have received unsolicited phone calls or by completing an online form at correspondence concerning investment www.
uk scams or you can matters.
These are typically from callthe FCA Consumer Helpline on overseas based brokers who target 0800 111 6768 or Action Fraud UKshareholders, offering to sell them 0300 123 2040. what often turn out to be worthless Details of any share dealing facilities orhigh risk shares in US or UK that the Company endorses will be investments.
There operations are included in Company mailings.
commonly known as boiler rooms.
These brokers can be very persistent More detailed information on this or and extremely persuasive.
The Financial similar activity can be found on the Conduct Authority FCA has found FCAwebsite, www.
uk consumer that the average amount lost by investors is around 20,000, with around 200m lost in the UK each year.
Even seasoned investors have been caught out, with the biggest individual loss recorded by the police being 6million.
It is not just the novice investor that hasbeen duped in this way: many ofthe victims had been successfully investing for several years.
Shareholders are advised to be wary of unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 174 Glossary Shareholder information Glossary Automated trading engine ATE Enablement score Net debt The system which we deploy to vary Having the correct and adequate Total company borrowings after our prices according to demand levels amount of tools and resources to deducting cash and cash equivalents.
and room availability within certain perform your job to the best of Net Recommend prescribed limits.
Based on the fundamental perspective Average Room Rate ARR Engagement score that every companys customers can Hotel accommodation income The engagement score is calculated by bedivided into three categories when dividedby the number of rooms adding together the positive responses completing a survey with ten score occupied byguests.
to the Your Say questions regarding choices: Promoters score nine to ten, pride in the organisation, advocacy, Passives score seven to eight, and recommending the Company as a Detractors score zero to six.
The Compound Annual Growth Rate placeof work and intention to stay NetGuest Score can be calculated CAGR andmotivation.
These scores are bytaking the percentage of customers The year on year growth rate of an thenaveraged to produce an overall who are Promoters and subtracting annualised gain over a specified engagement score.
Equity stores Costa stores leased or owned by Occupancy Detractors Whitbread, as opposed to those leased Number of hotel bedrooms occupied Customers that score zero to six or operated under franchise agreements.
by guests expressed as a percentage whencompleting a survey with ten ofthe number of bedrooms available score choices.
IFRS Direct bookings International Financial Reporting Operating margin margins Booking made direct to the Premier Inn Standards.
Operating profit expressed as website, Premier Inn call centre or hotel apercentage of total revenue.
Joint sites Operating profit Direct digital A site which has both a Premier Inn Profit before interest and tax.
Bookings made direct to the Premier andWhitbread-owned pub restaurant Inn website.
Online travel agents such as Directors forum Booking.
com A group of Whitbreads senior leaders.
Like for like Total sites, outlets or machines Promotors excluding those acquired or disposed Earnings per share EPS Customers that score nine to ten ofand opened or closed during the Profit attributable to the parent whencompleting a survey with current year and the previous year.
shareholders divided by the basic tenscore choices.
Thiscan be applied to alternative weighted average number of ordinary performance measures such as shares in issue during the year after revPAR, ARR and occupancy.
deducting treasury shares and shares RevPAR held by anindependently managed Revenue per available room is also Like for like sales share ownership trust ESOT.
This hotel measure Period over period change in total sales, is achieved by multiplying the ARR less sales generated by businesses EBITDA by the occupancy rate.
This measure acquired or disposed of and outlets Earnings before interest, tax, ignores non-room income such as opened or closed during the current depreciation and amortisation, food andbeverage.
year and the previous year.
excluding income from Joint Ventures and Associates.
This is stated pre-IFRIC 13 for PremierInn UK and Ireland, Costa EBITDAR andRestaurants UK calculated on Earnings before interest, tax, the 52 weeks to 2 March 2017 vs the52 depreciation, amortisation and rent, weeks to 25 February 2016. excluding income from Joint Ventures and Associates.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 175 Glossary Shareholder information Glossary continued RevPAR premium Incremental revenue per available room over and above that achieved by direct competitors and or the market Return on Capital Returns Dividing the underlying operating profit for the year by net assets at the balance sheet date, adding back debt, taxation liabilities and the pension deficit.
System sales Retail sales from Costa outlets irrespective of whether it is an equity ora franchise store.
Team retention The number of permanent new starters that we retain for the first 90 days 3months.
Team turnover The level of outgoing and incoming permanent employees within our business over a 12 month period.
Underlying basic EPS Underlying profit attributable to theparent shareholders divided by thebasic weighted average number ofordinary shares.
See Note 10 to theconsolidated accounts.
Underlying net finance cost Finance costs net of finance revenue excluding non-underlying finance costsor revenue.
See Note 8 to the consolidated accounts.
Underlying operating profit Underlying profit before underlying netfinance costs.
See Note 4 to the consolidated accounts.
Underlying profit Profit excluding non-underlying items.
See Note 6 to the consolidated accounts.
Underlying profit before tax Underlying profit before underlying tax.
See Note 5 to the consolidated accounts.
Underlying tax Tax expense excluding non-underlying tax items.
See Note 9 to the consolidated accounts.
The performance of the Group is monitored internally using a variety of statutory and alternative performance measures APMs.
APMsare not defined within IFRS and are usedto assess the underlying operational performance of the Group and as such these measures should be considered alongside IFRSs measures.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 176 Bringing customers brands theylove Whitbread Court Houghton Hall Business Park Porz Avenue Dunstable Bedfordshire LU5 5XE www.
co. uk investors Strategic report Designed and produced by Printed by Park Communications onFSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
