Governance Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for In preparing the Company financial Each of the directors, the names and preparing the Annual Report and statements, the directors are requiredto: functions of whom are set out on Accounts in accordance with applicable pages64 and 65, confirms that, to select suitable accounting policies UK laws and regulations.
UK company the best of their knowledge, they have and apply themconsistently: law requires the directors to prepare complied with the above requirements financial statements for each financial make judgements and estimates in preparing the financial statements in year.
Under that law, the directors thatare reasonable andprudent: accordance with applicable accounting haveprepared the Group financial standards and that the financial state whether applicable UK statements in accordance with statements give a true and fair view of accounting standards havebeen International Financial Reporting the assets, liabilities, financial position followed, subject to any material Standards IFRS as adopted by the and result of the Group.
In addition, departures disclosed and explained European Union EU and applicable each ofthe directors confirms that the inthe financial statements: and UK law.
Further, they have elected strategic report includes afair review prepare the financial statements on toprepare the Company financial ofthe development and performance the going concern basis unless it is statements in accordance with of the business and the position of the inappropriate to presume that the FinancialReporting Standard 101 Group and together with adescription Company will continue in business.
'Reduced Disclosure Framework' of the principal risks and uncertainties andapplicable UK law.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that Under company law, the directors The directors are responsible disclose, with reasonable accuracy mustnot approve the financial forpreparing the Annual Report in at any time, the financial position statements unless they are satisfied that accordance with applicable law and oftheCompany and theGroup and they give atrue and fair view ofthestate regulations.
Having taken advice enable them to ensure that the financial of affairs of the Group andCompany fromthe Audit Committee, the Board statements comply with the Companies and of the profit or lossof the Group for considers the Annual Report and Act 2006 and, withregard to the thatperiod.
Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, Groupfinancial statements, Article 4 balanced and understandable and that In preparing the Group financial ofthe IAS Regulation.
They are also itprovides the information necessary for statements, the directors are requiredto: responsible for the system of internal the shareholders toassess the Group's control for safeguarding the assets of and Company's performance, select suitable accounting policies the Group and the Company and hence businessmodel and strategy.
inaccordance withIAS8 Accounting for taking reasonable steps toprevent Policies, Changes in Accounting Signed on behalf of the Board and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Estimates and Errors, and then applythem consistently: The directors are responsible for preparing the strategic report including present information, including the corporate governance report accounting policies, in a manner which Alison Brittain and thedirectors' remuneration report presents relevant, reliable, comparable Chief Executive and the directors' report in accordance andunderstandable information: with the Companies Act 2006 and provide additional disclosures applicable regulations, including the whencompliance with thespecific Listing Rules and the Disclosure and requirements in IFRS is insufficient to Transparency Rules.
Nicholas Cadbury enable users to understand the impact Group Finance Director of particular transactions, other A copy of the financial statements events and conditions on theGroup's ofthe Group is posted onthe Groups financial position and financial website.
The directors are responsible performance: forthemaintenance and integrity of theAnnual Report includedon state that the Group financial the website.
Information published statements comply with IFRS, on theGroups website is accessible subjectto any material departures in many countries with different disclosed and explained in the legal requirements.
Legislation in financial statements: the UKgoverning the preparation make judgements and estimates and dissemination of financial thatare reasonable andprudent: and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
prepare the consolidated financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that theGroup will continue in itsbusiness.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 103
