Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Shareholder Information Financial calendar Shareholder fraud Independent auditors 2017 Annual General Meeting Shareholders are advised to be wary Ernst & Young LLP 22 June 2017 ofany unsolicited advice or offers, resigning at the Annual General Meeting whether over the telephone, through 1 More London Riverside Final dividend dates thepost or by email.
If any such London SE1 2AF Announcement date 29 March 2017 unsolicited communication is received Ex-dividend date 11 May 2017 KPMG LLP to be appointed at the please check the company or person Record date 12 May 2017 Annual General Meeting contacting you is properly authorised by Last day for DRIP elections 5 June 2017 15 Canada Square the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Payment date 30 June 2017 London E14 5GL before getting involved.
Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics Shareholder information online Legal advisers tolure investors into scams.
They may The Company will publish annual Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP offer to sell shares that turn out to be reports, notices of shareholder meetings 65 Fleet Street worthless or non-existent, or to buy and other documents which we are London EG4Y 1HT shares at an inflated price in return for an required to send to shareholders upfront payment.
While high profits are Information for investors shareholder information on a website.
promised, if you buy or sell shares inthis Information for investors is provided Consenting shareholders will be notified way you may potentially lose your money.
onthe internet as part of the Groups either by post or email if preferred 5,000 people contact the FCA about corporate website which can be found eachtime the Company publishes share fraud each year, with victims at www.
This allows us losingan average of 20,000.
For more to increase speed of communication, information, or if you are approached by Registrars reduce our impact on the environment fraudsters, please visit the FCA website Capita Asset Services and keep costs to a minimum.
uk consumers scams, where you can report and find out more For shareholder enquiries contact: You can change your communication about investment scams.
You can also Saga Shareholder Services preference via the Saga Shareholder call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 The Registry Services Portal www.
If you have already paid money 34 Beckenham Road co. uk or by contacting Saga Shareholder toshare fraudsters you should contact Beckenham Services.
In order to register on the Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
Kent BR3 4TU portal you require your 11-digit investor code IVC.
You can findyour IVC on Advisers Shareholder Helpline: 0800 015 5429 communications such as your share Joint Corporate Broker and calls to Freephone numbers will vary by certificate.
The Saga Shareholder Financial Adviser provider.
If you are outside the United Services Portal allows you to manage J. P. Morgan Cazenove Kingdom call 44 0 333 300 1581 your shareholding easily and securely 25 Bank St calls outside the United Kingdom will be online.
You can also change your Canary Wharf charged at the applicable international personal details, view your holding and London E14 5JP rate.
Lines are open are open 9am to get an indicative valuation, view dividend 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, excluding information, register proxy voting Joint Corporate Broker public holidays in England and Wales.
instructions, reinvest your dividends to Numis Securities Ltd. buy additional Saga plcshares, buy and The London Stock Exchange Building enquiries@sagashareholder.
co. uk sell shares and register bank details so 10 Paternoster Square that dividends can be paid directly to Registered office London EC4M 7LT your account.
Saga plc Joint Financial Adviser Enbrook Park Goldman Sachs Intl.
Sandgate Peterborough Court Folkestone 133 Fleet Street Kent CT20 3SE London EC4A 2BB Corporate websites Media relations advisers Information made available on the MHP Communications Groups websites does not, and is not 6 Agar Street intended to, form part of these Results.
London WC2N 4HN ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 171
