Accounts GLOSSARY TERMS ARE LISTED IN ALPHABETICAL ORDER Adjusted measures are before exceptional items, FFVR, amortisation Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short term deposits, of acquisition intangibles, related tax items and tax on prior year items less borrowings and financing derivatives excluding accrued interest.
including the impact of rate changes on deferred tax.
Full year 2015 16 Itexcludes balances classified as held for sale.
New Country Development consists of Screwfix Europe, Portugal Adjusted pre-tax profit is used to report the performance of and Romania.
the business at a Group level including both the benefits of our Other International consists of Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, transformation programme and the associated costs.
This is stated before Screwfix Europe, Spain and Turkey Kota joint venture.
Retail profit is our operating profit measure used to report the Adjusted sales represents statutory sales excluding B&Q China sales.
performance of the underlying retail businesses including the sustainable Banque fide France data includes relocated and extended stores.
benefits of our transformation programme.
This is stated before central http: webstat.
do?node 5384326 costs, transformation costs, exceptional items and the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates.
Full year 2015 16 BAU business as usual refers to activity without the transformation.
comparatives exclude B&Q Chinas operating loss.
When referring to our performance, we would expect this to be broadly in line with the macroeconomic backdrop in our respective markets.
Screwfix Europe refers to Screwfix outside of UK in continental Europe.
CPR cost price reduction refers to the savings made on cost of Statutory sales refer to Group sales excluding Joint Venture Kota joint goods sold.
Digital sales are sales derived from online transactions, including click SKU Stock Keeping Unit is defined as the number of individual variants & collect.
This includes sales transacted on any device, however does not of products sold or remaining in stock.
It is a distinct type of item for sale, include sales through a call centre.
such as a product and all attributes associated with the item type that distinguish it from others.
These attributes could include, but are not EBITDA earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation is limited to, manufacturer, description, material, size, colour, packaging calculated as retail profit less central and transformation P&L costs and and warranty terms.
Transformation costs represent the additional costs of the ONE EBITDAR earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and Kingfisher transformation programme launched in 2016 17.
They property operating lease rentals is calculated as retail profit less central comprise transformation exceptional costs, transformation P&L and transformation P&L costs, before depreciation and amortisation and costs i. e. non-exceptional items and transformation capex capital property operating lease rentals.
FFVR financing fair value remeasurements represents fair value Underlying pre-tax profit is used to report the performance of the fluctuations from financial instruments.
underlying business at a Group level, including the sustainable benefits France consists of Castorama France and Brico Dpt France.
This is stated before the short-term costs associated with our transformation programme, exceptional items Free cash flow represents cash generated from operations excluding and FFVR.
exceptional items less the amount spent on interest, tax and capital UK & Ireland consists of B&Q in the UK & Ireland and Screwfix UK.
expenditure during the year excluding business acquisitions and disposals and asset disposals.
GNFR Goods Not For Resale covers the procurement of all goods and services a retailer consumes including media buying, mechanical handling equipment, printing and paper.
Lease adjusted ROCE is post-tax retail profit less central costs and transformation costs, excluding exceptional items and property lease costs, divided by lease adjusted capital employed excluding historic goodwill, net cash and exceptional restructuring provision.
Capital employed is adjusted to include capitalised property leases.
Kingfisher believes 8x property operating lease rent is a reasonable industry standard for estimating the economic value of its leased assets.
Capital employed except for capitalised leases, is calculated as a two point average.
The calculation excludes disposed businesses e. g. China.
LFL stands for like-for-like sales growth representing the constant currency, year on year sales growth for stores that have been open formore than a year.
com 159 Kingfisher is included in two socially responsible investment indices this year, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and FTSE4Good.
We also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Projects CDP Climate and Forests questionnaires in 2016.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 160 Printed by Park Communications on FSC certified paper.
Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001.
100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled.
This document is printed on UPM Fine Offset, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC certified forests.
Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc www.
com Photography Douglas Fry, Piranha Photography: Pages 1, 12, 30, 47, 48, 49, 52, 60, 64, 66 Kingfisher plc, 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 www.
