JPM Mercantile pp64 70 05 04 2017 11:08 Page 69 Shareholder Information continued is shown as a percentage of the NAV per share.
The opposite of Glossary of Terms and Denitions a discount is a premium.
It is more common for an investment trusts shares to trade at a discount than at a premium.
Return on Net Assets Total return on net asset value NAV per share, on a last traded Fair Value to last traded basis, assuming that all dividends paid out by the The fair value of the Companys debentures is calculated using Company were reinvested into the shares of the Company at the a discounted cash flow technique which applies the yield from NAV per share at the time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
a similarly dated gilt to the debentures issued by the Company and In accordance with industry practice, dividends payable which have adds to that a margin based on the five year average for the been declared but which are unpaid at the balance sheet date are AA Barclays Sterling Corporate Bond spread.
deducted from the NAV per share when calculating the return on net For the 175 million debenture, the Company takes the yield on assets.
For the 3.85 million perpetual debenture, the Company applies the yield on 3.50% War Loan.
Return to Shareholders The margin applied on the five year average for the AA Barclays Total return to the investor, on a mid-market price to mid-market Sterling Corporate Bond spread at 31st January 2017 was 1.00%.
price basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Company at the Performance Attribution time the shares were quoted ex-dividend.
Analysis of how the Company achieved its recorded performance Benchmark Return relative to its benchmark.
Total return on the benchmark, on a closing-market value to Performance Attribution Definitions: closing-market value basis, assuming that all dividends received were reinvested, without transaction costs, into the shares of the Asset Allocation underlying companies at time the shares were quoted Measures the impact of allocating assets differently to those in the ex-dividend.
benchmark, via the portfolios weighting in different countries, sectors or asset types.
The benchmark is a recognised index of stocks which should not be taken as wholly representative of the Companys investment Stock Selection universe.
The Companys investment strategy does not track this Measures the effect of investing in securities to a greater or lesser index and consequently, there may be some divergence between extent than their weighting in the benchmark, or of investing in the Companys performance and that of the benchmark.
securities which are not included in the benchmark.
Ongoing Charges Cost of Gearing Effect The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys management fee Measures the impact on relative performance arising from the cost and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs payable, of borrowings.
expressed as a percentage of the average of the daily net assets during the year and is calculated in accordance with guidance Cash Effect issued by the Association of Investment Companies.
Measures the impact on relative performance arising from holding cash balances.
Gearing Net Cash Effect of Management Fee Other Expenses Gearing represents the excess amount above shareholders funds The payment of fees and expenses reduces the level of total of total investments, expressed as a percentage of the assets, and therefore has a negative effect on relative shareholders funds.
Previously gearing represented the excess performance.
amount above shareholders funds of total assets expressed as a percentage of shareholders funds.
Total assets included total Interest Expense cost of debenture investments and net current assets liabilities less cash cash The payment of interest has a negative effect on relative equivalents and excluding bank loans of less than one year.
amount calculated is negative, this is shown as a net cash position.
Repurchase of shares Measures the effect on relative performance of repurchasing the Share Price Discount Premium to Net Asset Value Companys own shares at a price which is less than the net asset NAV per share value per share.
If the share price of an investment trust is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are said to be trading at a discount.
The discount The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 69 JPM Mercantile pp64 70 05 04 2017 08:52 Page 70 Shareholder Information continued You can invest in a J. P. Morgan investment trust through the Please note this list is not exhaustive and the availability of following: individual trusts may vary depending on the provider.
These websites are third party sites and J. P. Morgan Asset Management does not endorse or recommend any.
Directly from J. P. Morgan privacy and cookie policies as well as their platform charges Investment Account structure.
The Companys shares are available in the J. P. Morgan Investment Account, which facilitates both regular monthly investments and 3.
Through a professional adviser occasional lump sum investments in the Companys ordinary shares.
Shareholders who would like information on the Professional advisers are usually able to access the products of all Investment Account should call J. P. Morgan Asset Management the companies in the market and can help you find an investment free on 0800 20 40 20 or visit its website at that suits your individual circumstances.
An adviser will let you am.
co. uk investor know the fee for their service before you go ahead.
You can find an adviser at unbiased.
co. uk Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Accounts ISA You may also buy investment trusts through stockbrokers, wealth The Companys shares are eligible investments within a J. P. Morgan managers and banks.
For the 2016 17 tax year, from 6th April 2016 and ending 5th April 2017, the total ISA allowance is 15,240.
The shares are To familiarise yourself with the Financial Conduct Authority FCA also available in a J. P. Morgan Junior ISA.
Details are available from adviser charging and commission rules, visit fca.
uk J. P. Morgan Asset Management free on 0800 20 40 20 or via its website at am.
Via a third party provider Third party providers include: AJ Bell Interactive Investor Alliance Trust Savings James Brearley Barclays Stockbrokers James Hay Bestinvest Selftrade Charles Stanley Direct TD Direct FundsNetwork The Share Centre Hargreaves Lansdown Financial Conduct Authority In association with: Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams.
They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for an upfront payment.
While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money.
Report a scam How to avoid share fraud 1 Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA 6 Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with not have contact details on the Register or you FCA using the share fraud reporting form at an offer to buy or sell shares.
are told they are out of date.
uk scams, where you can find out more about investment scams.
Do not get into a conversation, note the name Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at 2 7 of the person and firm contacting you and then www.
You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on end the call.
8 Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an 3 Check the Financial Services Register from unauthorised firm you will not have access to the If you have already paid money to share fraudsters www.
uk to see if the person and firm Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. contacting you is authorised by the FCA.
4 Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an 9 Think about getting independent financial and 5,000 people contact the Financial Conduct authorised firm, copying its website or giving professional advice before you hand over any you false contact details.
Authority about share fraud each year, with victims losing an average of 20,000 10 5 Use the firms contact details listed on the Remember: if it sounds too good to be true, it Register if you want to call it back.
