Accounts Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the consolidated financial statements At 31 January 2017 millions Notes 2016 17 2015 16 1 GENERAL INFORMATION The amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows will require the Group Kingfisher plc the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates to disclose changes in liabilities associated with financing activities, including Operating activities together the Group supply home improvement products and services movements resulting from both cash flows and non-cash changes.
Cash generated by operations 31 925 931 through a network of retail stores and other channels, located mainly in Income tax paid 144 118 IFRS 9, Financial Instruments supersedes IAS 39 Financial Instruments: the United Kingdom and continental Europe.
The nature of the Groups Recognition and Measurement and changes some requirements for the Net cash flows from operating activities 781 813 operations and its principal activities is set out in the Strategic Report on measurement and classification of financial instruments, impairment of pages 1 to 46. financial assets and certain elements of hedge accounting.
A high level Investing activities The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom and is listed on the assessment of the standard has been undertaken, and it is not expected Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 4 406 333 London Stock Exchange.
The address of its registered office is 3 Sheldon that it will have a material effect on the Group financial statements, except Disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and property held for sale 20 25 Square, Paddington, London W2 6PX.
A full list of related undertakings of for additional required disclosures relating to hedge accounting.
the Company and their registered offices is given in note 15 of the Disposal of property company 33 18 IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers supersedes IAS 18 Companys separate financial statements.
Disposal of B&Q China: 33 Revenue and establishes a principles-based approach to revenue Proceeds net of costs and cash disposed 63 102 These consolidated financial statements have been approved for issue recognition and measurement based on the concept of recognising by the Board of Directors on 21 March 2017. revenue when performance obligations are satisfied.
As described in Deposit repaid 12 note 2 d below, the majority of the Groups revenue is recognised at the Decrease increase in short-term deposits 70 22 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES point of sale, therefore it is not expected that the new standard will have a Interest received 5 3 The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these material effect on its financial statements or the amount, timing or nature Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 5 consolidated financial statements are set out below.
These policies have of revenue recognised by the Group.
been consistently applied to the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
Net cash flows from investing activities 248 214 IFRS 16 Leases supersedes IAS 17 Leases.
It has not yet been endorsed by a.
Basis of preparation the European Union.
The most significant changes are in relation to lessee Financing activities The consolidated financial statements of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint accounting.
Under IFRS 16 the lessee will recognise a right-of-use asset and ventures and associates are made up to 31 January, except as disclosed in Interest paid 10 12 a lease liability for all leases currently accounted for as operating leases, with note 16 of the consolidated financial statements and in note 3 of the the exception of leases for a short period less than 12 months and those Interest element of finance lease rental payments 2 3 Companys separate financial statements.
The current financial year is for items of low value.
The asset will be depreciated over the term of the Repayment of bank loans 2 1 the calendar year ended 31 January 2017 the year or 2016 17.
The lease, whilst interest will be charged on the liability over the same period.
Repayment of fixed term debt 47 comparative financial year is the calendar year ended 31 January 2016 The Group anticipates that the adoption of IFRS 16 will have a significant Receipt on financing derivatives 10 the prior year or 2015 16.
The consolidated income statement and impact on the primary financial statements, including an impact on the related notes represent results for continuing operations, there being no Capital element of finance lease rental payments 12 13 operating profit, profit before tax, total assets and total liabilities lines.
The discontinued operations in the years presented.
impact of the standard on the Group is currently being assessed and New shares issued under share schemes 3 4 therefore it is not yet practicable to provide a full estimate of its effect.
The Own shares issued under share schemes 1 1 The directors of Kingfisher plc, having made appropriate enquiries, consider undiscounted amount of the Groups operating lease commitments at that adequate resources exist for the Group to continue in operational Purchase of own shares for ESOP trust 6 16 31 January 2017 disclosed under IAS 17, the current leasing standard, existence and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern Purchase of own shares for cancellation 200 200 was 3.4 billion see note 35. basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements for the year ended Ordinary dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company 230 232 31 January 2017.
Refer to the Strategic Report on page 46.
Other new standards and interpretations which are in issue but not yet Net cash flows from financing activities 495 472 effective are not expected to have a material impact on the consolidated The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance financial statements.
with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, including amounts classified as Union IFRS and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the held for sale 38 127 companies reporting under IFRS and therefore the consolidated financial historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations for certain Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, including amounts classified as held for sale, statements comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS legislation.
financial instruments, share-based payments and post-employment benefits.
at beginning of year 654 527 A summary of the Groups principal accounting policies is set out below.
There are no new standards, amendments or interpretations, which are Exchange differences 103 mandatory for the first time for the financial year ended 31 January 2017, The preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts at end of year 32 795 654 that are relevant and material for the Group.
the use of certain accounting estimates and assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving critical accounting new standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these estimates and judgements, which are significant to the consolidated financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective and in some cases financial statements, are outlined in note 3. had not yet been adopted by the EU : Amendments to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows effective from the Groups 2017 18 financial year : IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective from the Groups 2018 19 financial year : IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective from the Groups 2018 19 financial year : and IFRS 16, Leases effective from the Groups 2019 20 financial year.
com Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 www.
com 105 104 105 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED The effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax expense Use of non-GAAP measures excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in respect of prior In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures years and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax, divided by that are not required under IFRS, the generally accepted accounting continuing profit before taxation excluding exceptional items.
principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
Kingfisher believes that Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits adjusted sales, retail profit, underlying pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit, less borrowings and financing derivatives excluding accrued interest.
It effective tax rate, underlying earnings per share and adjusted earnings per excludes balances classified as assets and liabilities held for sale.
share provide additional useful information on performance and trends to shareholders.
These and other non-GAAP measures, such as net cash, are b.
Basis of consolidation used by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis and incentive The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
exceptional items, transformation costs, underlying, adjusted, effective i Subsidiaries tax rate and net cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other Group has control.
The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed companies.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and GAAP measures.
has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before central costs, Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition method of the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates, accounting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
The transformation costs, exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition results of subsidiaries which have been disposed are included up to the intangibles.
It includes the sustainable benefits of the transformation effective date of disposal.
2015 16 comparatives exclude B&Q Chinas operating results.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the before transformation costs.
fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, which are fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration presented as exceptional within their relevant income statement category, arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
helps provide an indication of the Groups ongoing business performance.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed The principal items which are included as exceptional items are: in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits and losses acquisition date.
On an  basis, the Group on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint ventures, recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value associates and investments which do not form part of the Groups or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net trading activities: assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling profits and losses on the disposal of properties and impairment losses interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the on non-operational assets: and non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total the costs of significant restructuring, including certain restructuring comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even costs of the Groups five year transformation programme launched in if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
2016 17, and incremental acquisition integration costs.
The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported for non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing fair value value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair value remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax items of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is and prior year tax items including the impact of changes in tax rates on less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the deferred tax.
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the Financing fair value remeasurements represent changes in the fair value income statement.
of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by fair value Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions adjustments to the carrying amount of borrowings and other hedged items between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised under fair value hedge relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an relate to hedged items of a financing nature.
impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquired The term underlying refers to the relevant adjusted measure being subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency reported before non-exceptional transformation costs.
Non-exceptional with the policies adopted by the Group.
transformation costs represent the short-term additional costs that arise ii Joint ventures and associates only as a result of the transformation programme launched in 2016 17, Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
Joint which either because of their nature or the length of the period over which control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, they are incurred are not considered as exceptional items.
These costs which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the principally relate to the unified and unique offer range implementation unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The equity method is and the digital strategic initiative.
The separate reporting of such costs in used to account for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
addition to exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups underlying business performance, which includes the sustainable benefits Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise of the transformation programme.
significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
The equity method is used to account for the Groups investments in associates.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 106 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 106 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED iv Principal rates of exchange against Sterling The effective tax rate is calculated as continuing income tax expense Under the equity method, investments are initially recognised at cost.
Use of non-GAAP measures 2016 17 2015 16 excluding tax on exceptional items and adjustments in respect of prior The Groups share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the Average Year end Average Year end In the reporting of financial information, the Group uses certain measures years and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax, divided by income statement within operating profit, and its share of post-acquisition rate rate rate rate that are not required under IFRS, the generally accepted accounting continuing profit before taxation excluding exceptional items.
movements in other comprehensive income is recognised in other Euro 1.21 1.16 1.38 1.31 principles GAAP under which the Group reports.
Kingfisher believes that comprehensive income.
The cumulative post-acquisition movements are Net cash comprises cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits US Dollar 1.34 1.26 1.52 1.42 adjusted sales, retail profit, underlying pre-tax profit, adjusted pre-tax profit, adjusted against the carrying amount of the investment.
When the Groups less borrowings and financing derivatives excluding accrued interest.
It effective tax rate, underlying earnings per share and adjusted earnings per share of losses equals or exceeds its interest, including any other long-term Polish Zloty 5.28 5.03 5.78 5.78 excludes balances classified as assets and liabilities held for sale.
share provide additional useful information on performance and trends to receivables, the Group does not recognise any further losses, unless it has Russian Rouble 87.98 75.72 94.54 107.52 shareholders.
These and other non-GAAP measures, such as net cash, are incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint venture b.
Basis of consolidation used by Kingfisher for internal performance analysis and incentive d. Revenue recognition or associate.
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements compensation arrangements for employees.
The terms retail profit, Sales represent the supply of home improvement products and services.
of the Company, its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates.
Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and its joint ventures exceptional items, transformation costs, underlying, adjusted, effective Sales exclude transactions made between companies within the Group, and associates are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest.
i Subsidiaries tax rate and net cash are not defined terms under IFRS and may therefore Value Added Tax, other sales-related taxes and are net of returns, trade and Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides Subsidiaries are all entities including structured entities over which the not be comparable with similarly titled measures reported by other staff discounts.
evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies Group has control.
They are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, of joint ventures and associates have been changed where necessary to Revenue relating to sales of in-store products is generally recognised at the to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and GAAP measures.
ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group.
Where customers have a right to return purchased has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Retail profit is defined as continuing operating profit before central costs, goods in exchange for a refund, a liability for returns is recognised based on The equity method of accounting is discontinued from the date an Subsidiaries acquired are recorded under the acquisition method of the Groups share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates, historic trends and offset against revenue in the period in which the sale investment ceases to be a joint venture or associate, that is the date on accounting and their results included from the date of acquisition.
The transformation costs, exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition was made.
which the Group ceases to have joint control or significant influence over results of subsidiaries which have been disposed are included up to the intangibles.
It includes the sustainable benefits of the transformation the investee or on the date it is classified as held for sale.
Where award credits such as vouchers or loyalty points are provided as part effective date of disposal.
of the sales transaction, the amount allocated to the credits is deferred and Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office c. Foreign currencies The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a subsidiary is the recognised when the credits are redeemed and the Group fulfils its before transformation costs.
i Presentation and functional currencies fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity obligations to supply the awards.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Sterling, which is the interests issued by the Group.
The consideration transferred includes the The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items, which are Groups presentation currency.
Items included in the financial statements of For delivered products and services, sales are recognised either when the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration presented as exceptional within their relevant income statement category, each of the Groups entities are measured using the currency of the primary product has been delivered or, for installation income, when the service has arrangement.
economic environment in which the entity operates i. e. its functional been performed.
Sales from delivered products and services represent only Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed The principal items which are included as exceptional items are: currency.
a small component of the Groups sales as the majority relates to in-store in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the non-trading items included in operating profit such as profits and losses purchases of products.
On an  basis, the Group ii Transactions and balances on the disposal, closure or impairment of subsidiaries, joint ventures, recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the Other income is primarily comprised of external rental income and gains associates and investments which do not form part of the Groups or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net functional currency at the exchange rates prevailing on the date of the or losses on disposal of assets.
Rental income from operating leases is trading activities: assets.
Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non-controlling transaction or, for practical reasons, at average monthly rates where recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial profits and losses on the disposal of properties and impairment losses interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.
direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are on non-operational assets: and non-controlling interests share of subsequent changes in equity.
Total added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a the costs of significant restructuring, including certain restructuring Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even straight-line basis over the lease term.
translated into Sterling at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
costs of the Groups five year transformation programme launched in if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the income e. Rebates The excess of the consideration transferred, the amount of any statement.
Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise volume-related rebates The term adjusted refers to the relevant measure being reported for non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the acquisition-date fair the net investment in a foreign operation or are designated and effective on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume-related rebates are continuing operations excluding exceptional items, financing fair value value of any previous equity interests in the acquiree over the fair value net investment or cash flow hedges.
Such exchange differences are initially accrued as units are purchased based on the percentage rebate applicable remeasurements, amortisation of acquisition intangibles, related tax items of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If this is deferred in equity.
to forecast total purchases over the rebate period, where it is probable the and prior year tax items including the impact of changes in tax rates on less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired in the rebates will be received and the amounts can be estimated reliably.
iii Group companies deferred tax.
case of a bargain purchase, the difference is recognised directly in the Discretionary rebates are not anticipated and only recognised once earned.
Financing fair value remeasurements represent changes in the fair value The balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries are expressed in Sterling at the income statement.
Rebates relating to inventories purchased but still held at the balance sheet rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Profits and losses of overseas of financing derivatives, excluding interest accruals, offset by fair value date are deducted from the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions adjustments to the carrying amount of borrowings and other hedged items subsidiaries are expressed in Sterling at average exchange rates for the between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised recorded net of applicable rebates.
Such rebates are credited to the Cost of period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign under fair value hedge relationships.
Financing derivatives are those that sales line in the income statement when the goods are sold.
losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an relate to hedged items of a financing nature.
operations, including joint ventures and associates, are recognised in a impairment of the asset transferred.
Accounting policies of acquired separate component of equity.
Other rebates received, such as those related to advertising and marketing, The term underlying refers to the relevant adjusted measure being subsidiaries have been changed where necessary to ensure consistency are credited to the Cost of sales line in the income statement when the On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the retranslation of the reported before non-exceptional transformation costs.
relevant conditions have been fulfilled.
transformation costs represent the short-term additional costs that arise net investment in foreign entities, and of borrowings and other currency ii Joint ventures and associates instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are taken to equity.
only as a result of the transformation programme launched in 2016 17, f. Dividends Joint ventures are entities over which the Group has joint control.
Joint which either because of their nature or the length of the period over which When a foreign operation is sold, such exchange differences recorded since Interim dividends are recognised when they are paid to the Companys control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, 1 February 2004 being the date of transition to IFRS are recognised in the they are incurred are not considered as exceptional items.
Final dividends are recognised when they are approved by which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the principally relate to the unified and unique offer range implementation income statement as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
The separate reporting of such costs in Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign used to account for the Groups investments in joint ventures.
addition to exceptional items helps provide an indication of the Groups entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and underlying business performance, which includes the sustainable benefits Associates are entities over which the Group has the ability to exercise translated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
Goodwill of the transformation programme.
significant influence but not control, generally accompanied by a arising prior to 1 February 2004 is denominated in Sterling, and not shareholding of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights.
method is used to account for the Groups investments in associates.
com 107 106 107 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ii Depreciation g. Intangible assets Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from cost i Goodwill to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets as follows: acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and Freehold land not depreciated separately recognised.
Such benefits include future synergies expected Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life from the combination and intangible assets not meeting the criteria for separate recognition.
Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period of the lease Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment at country level, Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years representing the lowest level at which it is monitored for internal Motor cars 4 years management purposes, by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years generating unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill relates.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms of more value of expected future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups sheet date.
weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of cash iii Impairment generating units.
When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether there are its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the any indicators that property, plant and equipment, including the Groups income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
Gains and stores, may be impaired and, should such indicators exist, the assets losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill recoverable amounts are subsequently estimated.
The recoverable amount relating to the entity sold.
is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value ii Computer software less costs to sell if higher.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession Where software is not an integral part of a related item of computer valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell.
The hardware, it is classified as an intangible asset.
discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production of of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the identifiable software products controlled by the Group, which are expected relevant cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is charged to the to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are income statement in the period in which it occurs.
Capitalised costs include those of software iv Disposal licences and development, including costs of employees, consultants and The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or maintaining amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Sales of computer software are expensed as incurred.
land and buildings are accounted for when there is an unconditional exchange of contracts.
Software under development is held at cost less any provisions for impairment, with impairment reviews being performed annually.
v Subsequent costs Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying amount or Amortisation commences when the software assets are available for use recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
h. Property, plant and equipment i Cost All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are carried at the period in which they are incurred.
cost less accumulated depreciation and any provisions for impairment.
Leased assets Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deemed cost, Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS.
approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been All property acquired after 1 February 2004 is carried at cost less purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value accumulated depreciation.
of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The assets are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included, as appropriate, under borrowings due within or after one year.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to finance costs in the income statement over the lease term.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are generally charged to the income statement in the period to which the payments relate, except for those leases which incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift clauses.
Leases which contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 108 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 108 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED ii Depreciation Where a lease is taken out for land and buildings combined, the buildings Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and g. Intangible assets Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from cost element of the lease may be capitalised as a finance lease if it meets the changes in actuarial assumptions are credited or charged to the statement i Goodwill to estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the asset criteria for a finance lease, but the land element will in most cases be of comprehensive income as they arise.
Goodwill represents the future economic benefits arising from assets as follows: classified as an operating lease.
If the contracted lease payments are not For defined contribution schemes, the Group has no further payment acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and split between land and buildings in the lease contract, the split is made based Freehold land not depreciated obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Such benefits include future synergies expected on the market values of the land and buildings at the inception of the lease.
are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings over remaining useful life from the combination and intangible assets not meeting the criteria for Incentives received or paid to enter into lease agreements are released to separate recognition.
ii Share-based compensation Short leasehold land and buildings over remaining period of the lease the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group operates several equity-settled, share-based compensation Fixtures and fittings between 4 and 20 years Goodwill is carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for is not amortised and is tested annually for impairment at country level, Computers and electronic equipment between 3 and 5 years the grant of options or deferred shares is recognised as an expense and is Investment property is property held by the Group to earn rental income representing the lowest level at which it is monitored for internal Motor cars 4 years calculated using Black-Scholes and stochastic models.
The total amount to or for capital appreciation.
Investment properties are carried at cost less management purposes, by assessing the recoverable amount of each cash Commercial vehicles between 3 and 10 years be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair depreciation and provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on generating unit or groups of cash generating units to which the goodwill value of the options or deferred shares granted, excluding the impact of a consistent basis with that applied to property, plant and equipment.
The recoverable amount is assessed by reference to the net present Long leaseholds are defined as those having remaining lease terms of more any non-market vesting conditions.
The value of the charge is adjusted to value of expected future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less k. Capitalisation of borrowing costs than 50 years.
Asset lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting due to non-market costs to sell if higher.
The discount rate applied is based upon the Groups Interest on borrowings to finance the construction of properties held as sheet date.
weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks non-current assets is capitalised from the date work starts on the property associated with the relevant cash generating unit or groups of cash iii Impairment n. Taxation to the date when substantially all the activities which are necessary to get generating units.
When the recoverable amount of the goodwill is less than At each reporting date an assessment is performed as to whether there are Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and the property ready for use are complete.
Where construction is completed its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the any indicators that property, plant and equipment, including the Groups in parts, each part is considered separately when capitalising interest.
Tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
income statement which cannot subsequently be reversed.
Gains and stores, may be impaired and, should such indicators exist, the assets Interest is capitalised before any allowance for tax relief.
The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions and there losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of goodwill recoverable amounts are subsequently estimated.
The recoverable amount l. Inventories are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain relating to the entity sold.
is assessed by reference to the net present value of expected future pre-tax during the ordinary course of business.
For uncertain tax positions, on the Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, on a cash flows value-in-use of the relevant cash generating unit or fair value ii Computer software basis that tax authorities have full knowledge of the relevant information it weighted average cost basis.
less costs to sell if higher.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession Where software is not an integral part of a related item of computer is determined whether it is probable that, in aggregate, an outflow of valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell.
Trade discounts and rebates received are deducted in determining the cost economic resources will occur following investigation.
The potential impact discount rate applied is based upon the Groups weighted average cost of purchase of inventories.
Cost includes appropriate attributable overheads of the relevant tax authoritys examination of the uncertain tax positions is Costs that are directly associated with the acquisition or production of of capital with appropriate adjustments for the risks associated with the and direct expenditure incurred in the normal course of business in bringing measured to make the best estimate of the amount of the tax benefit that identifiable software products controlled by the Group, which are expected relevant cash generating unit.
Any impairment in value is charged to the goods to their present location and condition.
Costs of inventories include may be lost, for which provisions are then recorded.
Where the final to generate economic benefits exceeding costs beyond one year, are income statement in the period in which it occurs.
the transfer from other comprehensive income of any gains or losses on outcome of these matters is different from the amounts which were initially recognised as intangible assets.
Capitalised costs include those of software qualifying cash flow hedges relating to purchases.
iv Disposal recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax licences and development, including costs of employees, consultants and The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
These an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price in the ordinary determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the income statement, course of business less the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
Costs associated with identifying, sourcing, evaluating or maintaining amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement.
Sales of or directly in other comprehensive income, as appropriate.
Write downs to net realisable value are made for slow moving, display, computer software are expensed as incurred.
land and buildings are accounted for when there is an unconditional damaged or obsolete items and other events or conditions resulting in Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the income exchange of contracts.
expected selling prices being lower than cost.
The carrying value of Software under development is held at cost less any provisions for statement because it excludes items of income or expense which are taxable inventories reflects known and expected losses of product in the ordinary impairment, with impairment reviews being performed annually.
v Subsequent costs or deductible in other years or which are never taxable or deductible.
Subsequent costs are included in the related assets carrying amount or Amortisation commences when the software assets are available for use Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that m. Employee benefits and is over their estimated useful lives of two to ten years.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group i Post-employment benefits statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
h. Property, plant and equipment The Group operates various defined benefit and defined contribution taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
i Cost pension schemes for its employees, some of which are required by local All other repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement in Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are carried at Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary legislation.
A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme which defines an the period in which they are incurred.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is amount of pension benefit which an employee will receive on retirement.
Leased assets probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which the Properties that were held at 1 February 2004 are carried at deemed cost, Where assets are financed by leasing agreements which give rights temporary differences or unused tax losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax Group usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.
In all cases being the fair value of land and buildings as at the transition date to IFRS.
approximating to ownership, the assets are treated as if they had been liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the other than some of the legally required schemes, a separate fund is All property acquired after 1 February 2004 is carried at cost less purchased outright.
The amount capitalised is the lower of the fair value initial recognition of goodwill in a business combination.
Deferred tax assets accumulated to meet the accruing liabilities.
The assets of each of these accumulated depreciation.
of the leased asset or the present value of the minimum lease payments and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the funds are either held under trusts or managed by insurance companies during the lease term at the inception of the lease.
The assets are initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and are entirely separate from the Groups assets.
depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful life.
and liabilities in a transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges in respect of the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable benefit schemes is the fair value of scheme assets less the present value of future periods, are included, as appropriate, under borrowings due within temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined or after one year.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to and associates, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the finance costs in the income statement over the lease term.
temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit not reverse in the foreseeable future.
All other leases are operating leases and the rental payments are generally obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows charged to the income statement in the period to which the payments using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which are denominated relate, except for those leases which incorporate fixed minimum rental uplift in the currency in which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to clauses.
Leases which contain fixed minimum rental uplifts are charged to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
com 109 108 109 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED i Cash and cash equivalents The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset maturities of three months or less.
ii Borrowings Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have been Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, net of enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Where expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset borrowings are in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships, is realised.
adjustments are made to their carrying amounts to reflect the hedged risks.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income and direct issue costs, are amortised to the income statement using the statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited to other effective interest method.
comprehensive income, in which case the current or deferred tax is also iii Other investments including short-term deposits recognised in other comprehensive income.
Other investments may include equity investments where the Group does Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other not have control, joint control or significant influence in the investee, shortwhen they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and term deposits with banks and other investments with original maturities of when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a more than three months.
Any dividends received are recognised in the net basis.
Investments classified as available-for-sale financial assets under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, Operating levies, such as certain revenue, property and payroll-based taxes, are initially measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value are not treated as income tax and are included within operating profit.
The recorded in other comprehensive income.
On disposal, the accumulated timing of recognition of a liability to pay an operating levy is determined by fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are the event identified under the relevant legislation that triggers the recycled to the income statement.
obligation to pay the levy.
Provisions and contingent liabilities Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or measured at amortised cost less any provision for bad and doubtful debts.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation v Trade payables and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently for future operating losses.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are vi Derivatives and hedge accounting determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it is not which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Credits or charges arising income statement as they arise.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives from changes in the rate used to discount the provisions are recognised transacted as hedges of operating items and financing items are within net finance costs.
recognised in operating profit and net finance costs respectively.
Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative whose existence will only be confirmed by future uncertain events that are contract is entered into, and are subsequently carried at fair value.
The not wholly within the Groups control, or present obligations where it is not accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments probable that an outflow of resources will be required or the amount of classified as hedges depends on their designation, which occurs at the the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
If the outflow of economic start of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain financial resources is not considered remote, contingent liabilities are disclosed instruments as: but not recognised in the financial statements.
a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or unrecognised firm p. Financial instruments commitment fair value hedge : Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or firm commitment balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual cash flow hedge : or provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the Group has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
Fair value hedges Financial liabilities or a part of a financial liability are derecognised when For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded in the income Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a currently statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the corresponding hedging enforceable legal right to set off the respective recognised amounts and instrument are recognised in the same line of the income statement.
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Cash flow hedges Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 110 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 110 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2 PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS i Cash and cash equivalents forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held on call liability, then, at the time it is recognised, the associated gains or losses on The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that with banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with original the derivative that had previously been recognised in equity are included in the Group to make estimates and assumptions that affect the application of sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset maturities of three months or less.
the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability.
For hedges policies and reported amounts.
Estimates and judgements are continually to be recovered.
that result in the recognition of a financial asset or liability, amounts deferred evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors ii Borrowings in equity are recognised in the income statement in the same period in including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have been Interest-bearing borrowings are recorded at the proceeds received, net of which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are direct issue costs and subsequently measured at amortised cost.
Where The significant judgements applied in the preparation of the financial expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset borrowings are in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships, Net investment hedges statements, along with estimates and assumptions which have a significant is realised.
Where the Group hedges net investments in foreign operations through risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption foreign currency borrowings, the gains or losses on the retranslation of the liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income and direct issue costs, are amortised to the income statement using the borrowings are recognised in other comprehensive income.
If the Group statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited to other effective interest method.
Sources of estimation uncertainty uses derivatives as the hedging instrument, the effective portion of the comprehensive income, in which case the current or deferred tax is also hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective Impairment of goodwill and other assets iii Other investments including short-term deposits recognised in other comprehensive income.
portion being recognised immediately in the income statement.
Gains and As required, the Group applies procedures to ensure that its assets are Other investments may include equity investments where the Group does Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other losses accumulated in other comprehensive income are recycled through carried at no more than their recoverable amount.
The procedures, by not have control, joint control or significant influence in the investee, shortwhen they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
their nature, require estimates and assumptions to be made.
The most term deposits with banks and other investments with original maturities of when the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a significant are set out below.
Any dividends received are recognised in the In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Group documents in advance net basis.
Investments classified as available-for-sale financial the relationship between the item being hedged and the hedging The Group is required under IFRS, on at least an annual basis, to test assets under IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, Operating levies, such as certain revenue, property and payroll-based taxes, instrument.
The Group also documents and demonstrates an assessment whether goodwill has suffered any impairment.
As part of this testing the are initially measured at fair value, with subsequent changes in fair value are not treated as income tax and are included within operating profit.
The of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined recorded in other comprehensive income.
On disposal, the accumulated timing of recognition of a liability to pay an operating levy is determined by which shows that the hedge has been and will be highly effective on an based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the fair value adjustments recognised in other comprehensive income are the event identified under the relevant legislation that triggers the ongoing basis.
The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each period estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing recycled to the income statement.
end to ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.
operation of the cash generating unit and the choice of suitable discount and long-term growth rates in order to calculate the present value of the iv Trade receivables Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or o.
Provisions and contingent liabilities forecast cash flows.
Actual outcomes could vary significantly from these Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or estimates.
Further information on the impairment tests undertaken, measured at amortised cost less any provision for bad and doubtful debts.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument is constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is more likely than including the key assumptions, is given in note 12. retained in other comprehensive income until the highly probable forecast not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation v Trade payables transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, Property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets are reviewed and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Provisions are not recognised Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that their for future operating losses.
is transferred to the income statement.
carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Computer software under If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are vi Derivatives and hedge accounting development is assessed for impairment annually.
When a review for Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it is not impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount of an asset or a cash contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, effective, changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised in the generating unit is determined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts, and the where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives and value-in-use, calculated on the basis of managements assumptions host contracts are not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses from changes in the rate used to discount the provisions are recognised transacted as hedges of operating items and financing items are and estimates.
reported in the income statement.
At each reporting date, the Group is required to assess whether there is q.
Assets and liabilities held for sale Contingent liabilities are possible obligations arising from past events, Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative objective evidence that its investments in associates and joint ventures whose existence will only be confirmed by future uncertain events that are Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their contract is entered into, and are subsequently carried at fair value.
This requires estimates of the investments recoverable not wholly within the Groups control, or present obligations where it is not carrying amounts will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments amounts, including present values of the Groups share of future cash flows.
probable that an outflow of resources will be required or the amount of through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the classified as hedges depends on their designation, which occurs at the Inventories the obligation cannot be reliably measured.
If the outflow of economic sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for start of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain financial As inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value, this resources is not considered remote, contingent liabilities are disclosed immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are instruments as: requires the estimation of the eventual sales price of goods to customers but not recognised in the financial statements.
usual and customary for sales of such assets.
a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability or unrecognised firm in the future.
A high degree of judgement is applied when estimating the p. Financial instruments Management must be committed to the sale, which should be expected to commitment fair value hedge : impact on the carrying value of inventories of factors such as stock turn, qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date of Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Groups a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction or firm commitment range or delisted status, shrinkage, damage, obsolescence and range classification as held for sale.
balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual review activity.
The quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly cash flow hedge : or provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are derecognised when the measured and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation net investment hedge.
Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or the undertaken throughout the year and across the Group.
Refer to note 18 for measured at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
Group has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership.
Fair value hedges further information.
This excludes financial assets, deferred tax assets and assets arising from Financial liabilities or a part of a financial liability are derecognised when For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged employee benefits, which are measured according to the relevant During the year, the Group has started unifying its product offer, requiring the obligation specified in the contract is discharged or cancelled or expires.
item is adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the risk being accounting policy.
judgements over the net realisable value of certain ranges being removed hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded in the income Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a currently from the business.
Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are not depreciated statement.
Gains or losses from remeasuring the corresponding hedging enforceable legal right to set off the respective recognised amounts and once classified as held for sale.
The Group ceases to use the equity method instrument are recognised in the same line of the income statement.
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the of accounting from the date on which an interest in a joint venture or an liability simultaneously.
Cash flow hedges interest in an associate becomes classified as held for sale.
Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in equity, with any ineffective portion being recognised immediately in the income statement where relevant.
If the cash flow hedge of a firm commitment or www.
com 111 110 111 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS Post-employment benefits CONTINUED The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised on the Rebates balance sheet is dependent on a number of market rates and assumptions Rebate income received from suppliers represents a material element of including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, inflation and gross profit, with a large number of agreements with varying terms existing mortality rates.
The net interest expense or income is dependent on the across our operating companies.
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds and the net deficit or surplus position.
The market rates and assumptions are based on the conditions at Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of these rebates.
the time and changes in these can lead to significant movements in the Where the percentage rate of such rebates depends on the volumes estimated obligations.
To help the reader understand the impact of purchased, forecasts are required, particularly at interim periods, of full changes in the key market rates and assumptions, a sensitivity analysis usually calendar year purchases.
Forecasts are informed by historical is provided in note 27. trading patterns, current performance and trends.
However, this judgement is reduced significantly for full year reporting, due to the Groups January Judgements made in applying accounting policies financial year end.
Exceptional items and transformation costs The Group separately reports exceptional items and transformation costs Other types of rebates, such as contributions towards marketing and in order to calculate adjusted and underlying results, as it believes these advertising activities, represent a smaller element of the Groups overall measures provide additional useful information on underlying performance rebate income.
These require judgement on the timing of recognition, in and trends to shareholders.
particular assessing when any corresponding conditions have been fulfilled.
Judgement is required in determining whether an item should be classified Judgement is also required over the recoverability of receivables relating to as a non-exceptional transformation cost, exceptional item or included rebates.
The amount of rebates due from suppliers at the balance sheet within underlying results.
The Groups definitions of exceptional items and date is disclosed in note 19. transformation costs are outlined in note 2 a.
Income taxes The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions in which it operates and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is open to differing interpretations during the ordinary course of business.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in determining the provision for income taxes in each of these territories.
Where it is anticipated that additional taxes are probable, the Group recognises liabilities for the estimate of any potential exposure.
These estimates are continually reassessed, and where the final outcome of these matters is different from the initially recorded amount, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of prior years are recorded in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive income, as appropriate, and are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Refer to notes 9, 25 and 36 for further information.
Restructuring provisions The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant part of the provisions is the cost to exit stores and onerous property contracts.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and subletting surplus space.
Significant assumptions are used in making these calculations, in particular the nature, timing and value of mitigating the lease costs, including void periods and level of sublease income, and changes in these assumptions and future events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
Refer to note 26 for further information.
During the year, the Group entered into a lease liability transaction with a third party to dispose of a number of UK leases following the closure of these stores.
The residual lease liability for these properties remains with the Group, and therefore the related onerous lease provisions continue to be recorded.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 112 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 112 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS Post-employment benefits CONTINUED Income statement The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised on the Rebates 2016 17 balance sheet is dependent on a number of market rates and assumptions Rebate income received from suppliers represents a material element of Other International including interest rates of high quality corporate bonds, inflation and millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total gross profit, with a large number of agreements with varying terms existing mortality rates.
interest rates of high quality corporate bonds and the net deficit or surplus Adjusted sales 4,979 4,254 1,191 801 11,225 position.
The market rates and assumptions are based on the conditions at B&Q China sales Volume-based rebates represent the significant majority of these rebates.
the time and changes in these can lead to significant movements in the Where the percentage rate of such rebates depends on the volumes Sales 11,225 estimated obligations.
To help the reader understand the impact of purchased, forecasts are required, particularly at interim periods, of full Retail profit 358 353 144 8 847 changes in the key market rates and assumptions, a sensitivity analysis usually calendar year purchases.
Forecasts are informed by historical Central costs 48 is provided in note 27. trading patterns, current performance and trends.
However, this judgement Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 5 is reduced significantly for full year reporting, due to the Groups January Judgements made in applying accounting policies Transformation costs before exceptional items 44 financial year end.
Exceptional items and transformation costs Exceptional items 23 The Group separately reports exceptional items and transformation costs Other types of rebates, such as contributions towards marketing and in order to calculate adjusted and underlying results, as it believes these Operating profit 773 advertising activities, represent a smaller element of the Groups overall measures provide additional useful information on underlying performance Net finance costs 14 rebate income.
Profit before taxation 759 Judgement is required in determining whether an item should be classified Judgement is also required over the recoverability of receivables relating to as a non-exceptional transformation cost, exceptional item or included rebates.
The amount of rebates due from suppliers at the balance sheet 2015 16 within underlying results.
The Groups definitions of exceptional items and date is disclosed in note 19.
Other International transformation costs are outlined in note 2 a. millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total Income taxes Adjusted sales 4,853 3,786 987 705 10,331 The Group is subject to income taxes in numerous jurisdictions in which it operates and there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax B&Q China sales 110 determination is open to differing interpretations during the ordinary Sales 10,441 course of business.
Significant judgement may therefore be required in Retail profit 326 311 113 4 746 determining the provision for income taxes in each of these territories.
Central costs 45 Where it is anticipated that additional taxes are probable, the Group Share of interest and tax of joint ventures and associates 5 recognises liabilities for the estimate of any potential exposure.
These estimates are continually reassessed, and where the final outcome of these B&Q China operating loss 4 matters is different from the initially recorded amount, such differences will Exceptional items 166 impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which Operating profit 526 such determination is made.
These adjustments in respect of prior years Net finance costs 14 are recorded in the income statement or directly in other comprehensive Profit before taxation 512 income, as appropriate, and are disclosed in the notes to the accounts.
Balance sheet Restructuring provisions 2016 17 The Group carries a number of provisions in relation to historical and Other International ongoing restructuring programmes.
The most significant part of the millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total provisions is the cost to exit stores and onerous property contracts.
The Segment assets 1,416 1,410 606 454 3,886 ultimate costs and timing of cash flows are dependent on exiting the property lease contracts on the closed stores and subletting surplus space.
Central liabilities 155 Significant assumptions are used in making these calculations, in particular Goodwill 2,399 the nature, timing and value of mitigating the lease costs, including void Net cash 641 periods and level of sublease income, and changes in these assumptions Net assets 6,771 and future events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
2015 16 During the year, the Group entered into a lease liability transaction with a Other International third party to dispose of a number of UK leases following the closure of these millions UK & Ireland France Poland Other Total stores.
The residual lease liability for these properties remains with the Group, Segment assets 1,264 1,313 476 347 3,400 and therefore the related onerous lease provisions continue to be recorded.
B&Q China investment 62 Central liabilities 219 Goodwill 2,397 Net cash 546 Net assets 6,186 www.
com 113 112 113 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Other segmental information 2016 17 Other International UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 215 95 45 34 17 406 Depreciation and amortisation 132 80 20 19 2 253 Impairment losses 3 6 2 3 14 1 Non-current assets 3,307 2,063 599 350 24 6,343 2015 16 Other International UK & Ireland France Poland Other B&Q China Central Total Capital expenditure 156 121 31 24 1 333 Depreciation and amortisation 131 76 16 16 1 240 Impairment losses 24 8 23 55 1 Non-current assets 3,229 1,899 515 284 6 5,933 1 Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and investments in joint ventures and associates.
The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive, representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates.
The Group only has one business segment being the supply of home improvement products and services.
The Other International segment consists of Poland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Romania and the joint venture Kota in Turkey.
Poland has been shown separately due to its significance.
Central costs principally comprise the costs of the Groups head office before transformation costs.
Central liabilities comprise unallocated head office and other central items including pensions, insurance, interest and tax.
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS millions 2016 17 2015 16 Included within selling and distribution expenses UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 21 305 Brico Dpt Romania impairment 3 21 308 Included within administrative expenses Transformation exceptional costs 5 Brico Dpt Romania impairment 15 5 15 Included within other income Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 143 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Profit on disposal of properties 4 1 7 157 Included within net finance costs UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 6 6 Exceptional items before tax 17 166 Exceptional tax items 6 67 Exceptional items 11 99 Current year exceptional items include a 21m net credit 2015 16: 305m charge relating to the B&Q store closure programme in the UK and the closure of loss-making stores in France and other countries in continental Europe.
In addition, a 6m exceptional interest charge relating to the reduction in discount rate used to measure the overall UK restructuring provision was recognised.
The net credit principally arises due to savings on B&Q store exit costs as compared with the original restructuring provisions recognised, and the reversal of a restructuring provision following the announcement that one of the B&Q stores originally earmarked for closure would remain open, offset mainly by store asset impairments relating to the closure of additional loss-making stores in continental Europe.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 114 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 114 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4 SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS CONTINUED Transformation exceptional costs of 5m have been recorded in the year relating to the initial costs of setting up the Groups new offer and supply Other segmental information chain organisation.
2016 17 A profit of 3m was recognised on disposal of the Groups remaining 30% stake in B&Q China refer to note 33 for further information.
In the prior year a Other International profit of 143m was recorded on disposal of the Groups controlling 70% stake.
UK & Ireland France Poland Other Central Total Capital expenditure 215 95 45 34 17 406 In the prior year, an exceptional loss of 18m was recorded relating to the impairment of goodwill and certain stores in the Brico Dpt Romania business.
Depreciation and amortisation 132 80 20 19 2 253 6 NET FINANCE COSTS Impairment losses 3 6 2 3 14 millions 2016 17 2015 16 1 Non-current assets 3,307 2,063 599 350 24 6,343 Bank overdrafts and bank loans 10 8 Fixed term debt 2 3 2015 16 Finance leases 2 3 Other International Financing fair value remeasurements 1 4 UK & Ireland France Poland Other B&Q China Central Total Unwinding of discount on provisions 7 1 Capital expenditure 156 121 31 24 1 333 Other interest payable 5 3 Depreciation and amortisation 131 76 16 16 1 240 Finance costs 27 22 Impairment losses 24 8 23 55 1 Non-current assets 3,229 1,899 515 284 6 5,933 Cash and cash equivalents and short-term deposits 6 3 1 Non-current assets comprise goodwill, other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, investment property and investments in joint ventures and associates.
Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 7 5 Finance income 13 8 The operating segments disclosed above are based on the information reported internally to the Board of Directors and Group Executive, representing the geographical areas in which the Group operates.
Net finance costs 14 14 The Other International segment consists of Poland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Russia, Romania and the joint venture Kota in Turkey.
Fixed term debt interest includes net interest income accrued on derivatives of 8m 2015 16: 9m income and amortisation of issue costs of borrowings of nil 2015 16: 1m.
Financing fair value remeasurements comprise a net loss on derivatives, excluding accrued interest, of 10m 2015 16: 5m gain, offset by a net gain from fair value adjustments to the carrying value of borrowings and cash of 9m 2015 16: 9m loss.
5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS millions 2016 17 2015 16 The 7m charge relating to the unwinding of discount on provisions includes a 6m exceptional charge relating to the reduction in discount rate used to Included within selling and distribution expenses measure the overall UK restructuring provision.
UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 21 305 Brico Dpt Romania impairment 3 21 308 Included within administrative expenses Transformation exceptional costs 5 Brico Dpt Romania impairment 15 5 15 Included within other income Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 143 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Profit on disposal of properties 4 1 7 157 Included within net finance costs UK & Ireland and continental Europe restructuring 6 6 Exceptional items before tax 17 166 Exceptional tax items 6 67 Exceptional items 11 99 Current year exceptional items include a 21m net credit 2015 16: 305m charge relating to the B&Q store closure programme in the UK and the closure of loss-making stores in France and other countries in continental Europe.
com 115 114 115 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2016 17 2015 16 Sales 11,225 10,441 Other income 26 183 Finance income 13 8 Revenue 11,264 10,632 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2016 17 2015 16 Operating lease rentals 1 Minimum lease payments Property 399 411 Minimum lease payments Equipment 32 29 Sublease income 1 6 430 434 Rental income received on investment property 2 4 2 Amortisation of intangible assets 58 49 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property: Owned assets 187 180 Held under finance leases 8 11 Impairment of goodwill 15 Impairment of intangible assets 4 3 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 10 37 Gain loss on disposal: Land and buildings, investment property and property held for sale 4 1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 8 4 Write down to net realisable value of inventories 37 38 Write down to recoverable value of trade and other receivables 4 4 1 Excludes rentals provided against as part of exceptional restructuring provision see note 26.
2 Of the amortisation of intangible assets charge, 1m 2015 16: 1m and 57m 2015 16: 48m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Auditors remuneration millions 2016 17 2015 16 Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.1 Audit fees 1.6 1.4 Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Other assurance services 0.2 0.1 Non-audit fees 0.3 0.2 Auditors remuneration 1.9 1.6 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 62.
No services were provided pursuant to contingent fee arrangements.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 116 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 116 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 7 PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 8 EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS millions 2016 17 2015 16 The following items of revenue have been credited in arriving at profit before taxation: Wages and salaries 1,342 1,227 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Social security costs 259 228 Sales 11,225 10,441 Post-employment benefits: Other income 26 183 Defined contribution 23 25 Finance income 13 8 Defined benefit service cost 9 8 Revenue 11,264 10,632 Share-based compensation 15 11 Employee benefit expenses 1,648 1,499 The following items of expense income have been charged credited in arriving at profit before taxation: millions 2016 17 2015 16 Number thousands 2016 17 2015 16 Operating lease rentals 1 Stores 71 71 Minimum lease payments Property 399 411 Administration 6 5 Minimum lease payments Equipment 32 29 Average number of persons employed 77 76 Sublease income 1 6 430 434 The average number of persons employed excludes those employed by the Groups joint ventures and associates.
Rental income received on investment property 2 4 2 Remuneration of key management personnel Amortisation of intangible assets 58 49 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and investment property: Short-term employee benefits 6.7 9.4 Owned assets 187 180 Post-employment benefits 0.4 0.4 Held under finance leases 8 11 Termination benefits 1.2 0.8 Impairment of goodwill 15 Share-based compensation 5.0 2.5 Impairment of intangible assets 4 3 13.3 13.1 Impairment of property, plant and equipment and investment property 10 37 Gain loss on disposal: The Group defines key management personnel as being those members of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive.
Land and buildings, investment property and property held for sale 4 1 Fixtures, fittings and equipment 8 4 Further detail with respect to the Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 66 to 88.
Other than as set out in the Directors Remuneration Report, there have been no transactions with key management during the year 2015 16: nil.
Write down to net realisable value of inventories 37 38 Write down to recoverable value of trade and other receivables 4 4 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE millions 2016 17 2015 16 1 Excludes rentals provided against as part of exceptional restructuring provision see note 26.
UK corporation tax 2 Of the amortisation of intangible assets charge, 1m 2015 16: 1m and 57m 2015 16: 48m are included in selling and distribution expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Current tax on profits for the year 66 7 Adjustments in respect of prior years 10 4 Auditors remuneration 56 3 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Overseas tax Fees payable for the audit of the Company and consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3 Current tax on profits for the year 155 117 Fees payable to the Companys auditor and their associates for other services to the Group: Adjustments in respect of prior years 11 7 The audit of the Companys subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 1.2 1.1 166 110 Audit fees 1.6 1.4 Deferred tax Audit-related assurance services 0.1 0.1 Current year 22 14 Other assurance services 0.2 0.1 Adjustments in respect of prior years 16 Non-audit fees 0.3 0.2 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 35 1 Auditors remuneration 1.9 1.6 73 13 Details of the Groups policy on the use of auditors for non-audit services, the reasons why the auditor was used rather than another supplier and how the auditors independence and objectivity were safeguarded are set out in the Audit Committee Report on page 62.
No services were provided pursuant to Income tax expense 149 100 contingent fee arrangements.
com 117 116 117 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED Factors affecting tax charge for the year The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015 16: 20%.
The differences are explained below: millions 2016 17 2015 16 Profit before taxation 759 512 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015 16: 20% 152 102 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 Net expense income not deductible chargeable for tax purposes 5 26 Deferred tax assets utilised not previously recognised 8 Temporary differences: Net gains on property 1 Losses not recognised 2 6 Foreign tax rate differences 40 38 Adjustments in respect of prior years 15 11 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 35 1 Income tax expense 149 100 The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax is 26% 2015 16: 26%.
Exceptional tax items for the year amount to a charge of 6m, of which a 1m credit relates to prior year items.
In 2015 16 exceptional tax items amounted to a credit of 67m, of which a 1m credit was relating to prior year items.
The effective tax rate calculation is presented in the Financial Review on page 34.
The overall tax rate for the year is 20% 2015 16: 20%.
This predominately reflects enacted rate reductions in both the UK and France, due to have full effect in 2020 21, which have resulted in deferred tax credits in the year, as well as the release of prior year provisions which have either been agreed with tax authorities, reassessed, or time expired.
In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 13m has been credited directly to other comprehensive income 2015 16: nil, of which a 5m credit 2015 16: 18m credit is included in current tax and a 8m credit 2015 16: 18m charge is included in deferred tax and principally relates to post-employment benefits.
Future changes in tax rates The UK corporation tax rate reduced in the prior year from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015, and has been legislated to fall to 19% from 1 April 2017 and then again to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Spanish tax rate reduced from 30% to 28% from 1 January 2015, and fell again from 28% to 25% from 1 January 2016.
The surcharge in France that had previously increased the applicable rate to 38% was not renewed in the 2016 Finance Bill.
From 1 January 2016, the applicable rate in France is 34.43%.
New legislation enacted in the year will reduce the applicable rate in France to 28.92%.
This reduction in rate will be progressively introduced from 2017, and will be substantively applicable to Kingfisher Group companies from 1 January 2020.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 118 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 118 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9 INCOME TAX EXPENSE CONTINUED 10 EARNINGS PER SHARE Factors affecting tax charge for the year 2016 17 2015 16 Weighted Weighted The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015 16: 20%.
The differences are explained below: average average number of Earnings number of Earnings millions 2016 17 2015 16 Earnings shares per share Earnings shares per share millions millions pence millions millions pence Profit before taxation 759 512 Basic earnings per share 610 2,256 27.1 412 2,311 17.8 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 20% 2015 16: 20% 152 102 Effect of dilutive share options 7 0.1 8 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 Diluted earnings per share 610 2,263 27.0 412 2,319 17.8 Net expense income not deductible chargeable for tax purposes 5 26 Deferred tax assets utilised not previously recognised 8 Temporary differences: Basic earnings per share 610 2,256 27.1 412 2,311 17.8 Net gains on property 1 B&Q China operating loss 4 0.2 Losses not recognised 2 6 Exceptional items before tax 17 0.8 166 7.2 Foreign tax rate differences 40 38 Tax on exceptional and prior year items 43 2.0 76 3.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 15 11 Financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 4 0.2 Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 35 1 Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 Income tax expense 149 100 Adjusted basic earnings per share 551 2,256 24.4 509 2,311 22.0 Transformation costs before exceptional items 44 2.0 The effective tax rate on profit before exceptional items and excluding prior year tax adjustments and the impact of changes in tax rates on deferred tax Tax on transformation costs before exceptional items 11 0.5 is 26% 2015 16: 26%.
In 2015 16 Underlying basic earnings per share 584 2,256 25.9 509 2,311 22.0 exceptional tax items amounted to a credit of 67m, of which a 1m credit was relating to prior year items.
This predominately Diluted earnings per share 610 2,263 27.0 412 2,319 17.8 reflects enacted rate reductions in both the UK and France, due to have full effect in 2020 21, which have resulted in deferred tax credits in the year, as well B&Q China operating loss 4 0.2 as the release of prior year provisions which have either been agreed with tax authorities, reassessed, or time expired.
Exceptional items before tax 17 0.8 166 7.2 In addition to the amounts charged to the income statement, tax of 13m has been credited directly to other comprehensive income 2015 16: nil, of Tax on exceptional and prior year items 43 2.0 76 3.3 which a 5m credit 2015 16: 18m credit is included in current tax and a 8m credit 2015 16: 18m charge is included in deferred tax and principally Financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 4 0.2 relates to post-employment benefits.
Tax on financing fair value remeasurements 1 0.1 Future changes in tax rates Adjusted diluted earnings per share 551 2,263 24.3 509 2,319 22.0 The UK corporation tax rate reduced in the prior year from 21% to 20% with effect from 1 April 2015, and has been legislated to fall to 19% from Transformation costs before exceptional items 44 2.0 1 April 2017 and then again to 17% from 1 April 2020.
The Spanish tax rate reduced from 30% to 28% from 1 January 2015, and fell again from 28% to 25% Tax on transformation costs before exceptional items 11 0.5 from 1 January 2016.
From Underlying diluted earnings per share 584 2,263 25.8 509 2,319 22.0 1 January 2016, the applicable rate in France is 34.43%.
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, excluding those held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan trust ESOP trust which for the purpose of this calculation are treated as cancelled.
For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
These represent share options granted to employees where both the exercise price is less than the average market price of the Companys shares during the year and any related performance conditions have been met.
11 DIVIDENDS millions 2016 17 2015 16 Dividends paid to equity shareholders of the Company Interim dividend for the year ended 31 January 2017 of 3.25p per share 31 January 2016: 3.18p per share 73 72 Final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2016 of 6.92p per share 31 January 2015: 6.85p per share 157 160 230 232 The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 January 2017 of 7.15p per share is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
com 119 118 119 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 GOODWILL millions Cost At 1 February 2016 2,412 Exchange differences 2 At 31 January 2017 2,414 Impairment At 1 February 2016 15 At 31 January 2017 15 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 2,399 Cost At 1 February 2015 2,414 Disposals 2 At 31 January 2016 2,412 Impairment At 1 February 2015 Charge for the year 15 At 31 January 2016 15 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 2,397 In the prior year, an impairment loss of 15m was recognised relating to all the goodwill in the Brico Dpt Romania business, which forms part of the Other International reporting segment.
Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland Romania Total At 31 January 2017 Cost 1,796 522 81 15 2,414 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 522 81 2,399 At 31 January 2016 Cost 1,796 520 81 15 2,412 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 520 81 2,397 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
These calculations are considered to have been valued using level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 120 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 120 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12 GOODWILL The groups of CGUs for which the carrying amount of goodwill is deemed significant are the UK, France and Poland.
The key assumptions used for millions value-in-use calculations are set out below.
Cost Assumptions At 1 February 2016 2,412 The cash flow projections are based on approved strategic plans covering a four-year period.
These are based on both past performance and expectations Exchange differences 2 for future market development.
The projections reflect certain benefits of the ONE Kingfisher plan, including creating a unified, unique and leading offer At 31 January 2017 2,414 and optimising operational efficiency.
For further details, refer to the Strategic Report.
Key drivers in the strategic plans are sales growth, margin and operating profit percentages.
Sales projections take into consideration both external factors Impairment such as market expectations, and internal factors such as trading plans and certain elements of the Groups transformation programme.
They assume sales increases in each country that are higher than recent experience and market growth expectations, driven largely by an improved offer and price At 1 February 2016 15 reinvestment.
Assumed margin percentage improvements reflect a lower cost of goods sold from leveraging the Groups buying scale through a unified At 31 January 2017 15 offer, which will be partially offset by range clearance and implementation costs.
Higher assumed operating profit percentages reflect operational leverage from increased sales as well as cost savings through operational efficiencies, in particular from unifying goods not for resale spend.
Net carrying amount Cash flows beyond this four-year period are calculated using a growth rate which does not exceed the long-term average growth rate for retail businesses At 31 January 2017 2,399 operating in the same countries as the CGUs.
The Board has reviewed a sensitivity analysis, including elimination of the projected benefits of the transformation plan, and does not consider that a Cost reasonably possible change in the assumptions used in the value-in-use calculations would cause the carrying amounts of the CGUs to exceed their At 1 February 2015 2,414 recoverable amounts.
Disposals 2 The weighted average cost of capital, used to discount future cash flows, is calculated using a combination of the cost of debt, leases and equity, weighted At 31 January 2016 2,412 according to an estimate of the CGUs capital gearing.
A risk adjustment is also made for the country in which the CGU operates.
The pre-tax risk adjusted nominal discount rates and long-term growth rates used are as follows: Impairment At 1 February 2015 2016 17 Charge for the year 15 Annual % rate UK France Poland At 31 January 2016 15 Discount rate 8.4 7.3 10.6 Long-term growth rate 3.2 2.3 3.1 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 2,397 2015 16 Annual % rate UK France Poland In the prior year, an impairment loss of 15m was recognised relating to all the goodwill in the Brico Dpt Romania business, which forms part of the Other Discount rate 8.4 8.2 8.6 International reporting segment.
Long-term growth rate 2.9 2.3 3.1 Impairment tests for goodwill Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to groups of cash generating units CGUs as follows: millions UK France Poland Romania Total At 31 January 2017 Cost 1,796 522 81 15 2,414 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 522 81 2,399 At 31 January 2016 Cost 1,796 520 81 15 2,412 Impairment 15 15 Net carrying amount 1,796 520 81 2,397 The recoverable amounts of the CGUs have been determined based on value-in-use calculations.
com 121 120 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS Computer millions software Other Total Cost At 1 February 2016 610 12 622 Additions 92 92 Disposals 2 2 Exchange differences 8 2 10 At 31 January 2017 708 14 722 Amortisation At 1 February 2016 339 7 346 Charge for the year 57 1 58 Impairment losses 4 4 Disposals 2 2 Exchange differences 7 1 8 At 31 January 2017 405 9 414 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 303 5 308 Cost At 1 February 2015 542 12 554 Additions 71 71 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 At 31 January 2016 610 12 622 Amortisation At 1 February 2015 290 6 296 Charge for the year 48 1 49 Impairment losses 3 3 Disposals 1 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 At 31 January 2016 339 7 346 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 271 5 276 Additions in the current and prior year primarily related to the development of the unified IT platform, which will be amortised over its estimated useful life of 10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.
None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 122 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 122 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13 OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Computer Fixtures, millions software Other Total Land and fittings and millions buildings equipment Total Cost Cost At 1 February 2016 610 12 622 At 1 February 2016 2,841 2,617 5,458 Additions 92 92 Additions 117 201 318 Disposals 2 2 Disposals 35 187 222 Exchange differences 8 2 10 Transfers to investment property 3 3 At 31 January 2017 708 14 722 Exchange differences 263 129 392 At 31 January 2017 3,183 2,760 5,943 Amortisation At 1 February 2016 339 7 346 Depreciation Charge for the year 57 1 58 At 1 February 2016 430 1,816 2,246 Impairment losses 4 4 Charge for the year 41 154 195 Disposals 2 2 Impairment losses 7 3 10 Exchange differences 7 1 8 Disposals 24 178 202 At 31 January 2017 405 9 414 Exchange differences 34 71 105 At 31 January 2017 488 1,866 2,354 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 303 5 308 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 2,695 894 3,589 Cost At 1 February 2015 542 12 554 Cost Additions 71 71 At 1 February 2015 2,787 2,476 5,263 Disposals 1 1 Additions 86 174 260 Disposal of subsidiaries 2 2 Disposals 13 42 55 At 31 January 2016 610 12 622 Transfers to assets held for sale 6 6 Transfers to investment property 17 17 Amortisation Exchange differences 4 9 13 At 1 February 2015 290 6 296 At 31 January 2016 2,841 2,617 5,458 Charge for the year 48 1 49 Impairment losses 3 3 Depreciation Disposals 1 1 At 1 February 2015 380 1,680 2,060 Disposal of subsidiaries 1 1 Charge for the year 42 149 191 At 31 January 2016 339 7 346 Impairment losses 17 19 36 Disposals 10 38 48 Net carrying amount Exchange differences 1 6 7 At 31 January 2016 271 5 276 At 31 January 2016 430 1,816 2,246 Additions in the current and prior year primarily related to the development of the unified IT platform, which will be amortised over its estimated useful life of 10 years as it becomes available for use in the operating companies.
Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 2,411 801 3,212 None of the Groups other intangible assets have indefinite useful lives.
Assets in the course of construction included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 26 52 78 At 31 January 2016 34 29 63 Assets held under finance leases included above at net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 14 27 41 At 31 January 2016 14 24 38 Impairment losses of 10m were recorded in the year 2015 16: 36m of which 8m 2015 16: 36m related to the UK and continental Europe exceptional restructuring programmes as described in note 5.
These were based on a determination of recoverable amounts of the stores as the net present value of future pre-tax cash flows value-in-use or fair value less costs to sell using market valuations performed by independent external valuers if higher.
com 123 122 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED The cumulative total of capitalised borrowing costs included within property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is 27m 2015 16: 27m.
Land and buildings are analysed as follows: 2016 17 2015 16 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total Cost 2,625 148 410 3,183 2,841 Depreciation 211 30 247 488 430 Net carrying amount 2,414 118 163 2,695 2,411 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 31 January 2017 is 127m 2015 16: 135m.
The Group does not revalue properties within its financial statements.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in October by independent external valuers.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.4bn 2015 16: 2.9bn on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in occupancy.
The key assumption used in calculating this is the estimated yields.
Property, plant and equipment market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell when reviewing for impairment.
15 INVESTMENT PROPERTY millions Cost At 1 February 2016 37 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 Disposals 4 At 31 January 2017 36 Depreciation At 1 February 2016 12 At 31 January 2017 12 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2017 24 Cost At 1 February 2015 41 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 17 Disposals 21 At 31 January 2016 37 Depreciation At 1 February 2015 11 Impairment losses 1 At 31 January 2016 12 Net carrying amount At 31 January 2016 25 A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
Based on this exercise the fair value of investment property is 36m 2015 16: 37m.
All the investment property market valuations are considered to have been determined by level 3 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 124 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 124 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 14 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED 16 INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES The cumulative total of capitalised borrowing costs included within property, plant and equipment, net of depreciation, is 27m 2015 16: 27m.
millions At 1 February 2016 23 Land and buildings are analysed as follows: Share of post-tax results 1 2016 17 2015 16 Exchange differences 1 Long Short millions Freehold leasehold leasehold Total Total At 31 January 2017 23 Cost 2,625 148 410 3,183 2,841 Depreciation 211 30 247 488 430 At 1 February 2015 28 Net carrying amount 2,414 118 163 2,695 2,411 Share of post-tax results 3 Dividends 5 Included in land and buildings is leasehold land that is in effect a prepayment for the use of land and is accordingly being amortised on a straight-line basis Exchange differences 3 over the estimated useful life of the assets.
The net carrying amount of leasehold land included in land and buildings at 31 January 2017 is 127m At 31 January 2016 23 2015 16: 135m.
A valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually in October by No goodwill is included in the carrying amount of investments in joint ventures and associates 2015 16: nil.
Based on this exercise the value of property is 3.4bn 2015 16: 2.9bn on a sale and leaseback basis with Kingfisher in Details of the Groups significant joint ventures and associates are shown below: occupancy.
For poorly performing stores, a vacant Principal place Class of possession valuation basis is used to approximate the fair value less costs to sell when reviewing for impairment.
of business % interest held shares owned Main activity Principal joint venture 15 INVESTMENT PROPERTY 1 Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. Turkey 50% Ordinary Retailing millions Principal associate Cost 1 Crealfi S. A. France 49% Ordinary Finance At 1 February 2016 37 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3 1 The financial statements of these companies are prepared to 31 December.
Disposals 4 Aggregate amounts relating to joint ventures and associates: At 31 January 2017 36 2016 17 2015 16 Joint Joint Depreciation millions ventures Associates Total ventures Associates Total At 1 February 2016 12 Non-current assets 19 2 21 20 2 22 At 31 January 2017 12 Current assets 40 59 99 51 63 114 Current liabilities 39 47 86 40 53 93 Net carrying amount Non-current liabilities 11 11 20 20 At 31 January 2017 24 Share of net assets 9 14 23 11 12 23 Cost Sales 159 10 169 150 11 161 At 1 February 2015 41 Operating expenses 154 9 163 143 10 153 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 17 Operating profit 5 1 6 7 1 8 Disposals 21 Net finance costs 5 5 4 4 At 31 January 2016 37 Profit before taxation 1 1 3 1 4 Income tax expense 1 1 Depreciation Share of post-tax results 1 1 2 1 3 At 1 February 2015 11 Impairment losses 1 17 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS At 31 January 2016 12 millions 2016 17 2015 16 B&Q China investment 62 Net carrying amount The Group held a 30% interest in B&Q China, which was held at fair value.
The Group disposed of the investment during the year, recognising a profit on At 31 January 2016 25 disposal of 3m see note 33 for further details.
A property valuation exercise is performed for internal purposes annually as described in note 14.
com 125 124 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18 INVENTORIES millions 2016 17 2015 16 Finished goods for resale 2,173 1,957 Included within finished goods for resale is a deduction for rebates to reflect inventories that have not been sold at the balance sheet date.
The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2017 is 6,449m 2015 16: 5,986m.
19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES millions 2016 17 2015 16 Non-current Prepayments 7 5 Property receivables 1 1 Other receivables 1 8 7 Current Trade receivables 65 65 Provision for bad and doubtful debts 5 7 Net trade receivables 60 58 Property receivables 3 2 Prepayments 131 124 Rebates due from suppliers 287 313 Other receivables 70 71 551 568 Trade and other receivables 559 575 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade and other receivables.
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS millions 2016 17 2015 16 Cash at bank and in hand 209 220 Other cash and cash equivalents 586 510 Cash and cash equivalents 795 730 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
The Group enters into multi-currency net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
millions 2016 17 2015 16 Short-term deposits 70 Short-term deposits comprised bank deposits with original maturities of between three and 12 months.
The fair values of short-term deposits approximate to their carrying amounts.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 126 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 126 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21 TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 18 INVENTORIES millions 2016 17 2015 16 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Current Finished goods for resale 2,173 1,957 Trade payables 1,431 1,339 Included within finished goods for resale is a deduction for rebates to reflect inventories that have not been sold at the balance sheet date.
Other taxation and social security 232 244 Deferred income 138 122 The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2017 is 6,449m 2015 16: 5,986m.
Contract to purchase own shares 50 19 TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES Accruals and other payables 694 614 millions 2016 17 2015 16 2,495 2,369 Non-current Prepayments 7 5 Non-current Property receivables 1 1 Accruals and other payables 50 53 Other receivables 1 8 7 Trade and other payables 2,545 2,422 Current Accruals and other payables include allowance for customer returns, representing the estimate of future sales returns at the year end.
Trade receivables 65 65 The fair values of trade and other payables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Provision for bad and doubtful debts 5 7 Net trade receivables 60 58 The contract to purchase own shares in the prior year related to a liability arising under an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement for the purchase of the Companys own shares.
Property receivables 3 2 Prepayments 131 124 22 BORROWINGS Rebates due from suppliers 287 313 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Other receivables 70 71 Current 551 568 Bank overdrafts 76 Bank loans 3 2 Trade and other receivables 559 575 Fixed term debt 48 Finance leases 11 12 The fair values of trade and other receivables approximate to their carrying amounts.
Refer to note 24 for information on the credit risk associated with trade 14 138 and other receivables.
20 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM DEPOSITS Non-current millions 2016 17 2015 16 Bank loans 6 8 Cash at bank and in hand 209 220 Fixed term debt 147 137 Other cash and cash equivalents 586 510 Finance leases 31 34 Cash and cash equivalents 795 730 184 179 Other cash and cash equivalents comprise bank deposits and investments in money market funds, fixed for periods of up to three months.
The fair values of Borrowings 198 317 cash and cash equivalents approximate to their carrying amounts.
Bank overdrafts and loans The Group enters into multi-currency net overdraft facilities and cash pooling agreements with its banks.
These agreements and similar arrangements Bank overdrafts are repayable on demand.
Current bank loans mature within 12 months of the balance sheet date.
These are arranged at floating rates generally enable the counterparties to offset overdraft balances against available cash in the ordinary course of business and or in the event that the of interest.
counterparty is unable to fulfil its contractual obligations.
millions 2016 17 2015 16 Non-current bank loans have an average maturity of two years 2015 16: three years and are arranged at fixed rates of interest with an effective interest rate of 1.1% 2015 16: 1.6%.
Short-term deposits 70 Short-term deposits comprised bank deposits with original maturities of between three and 12 months.
com 127 126 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 BORROWINGS CONTINUED 2016 17 2015 16 Principal Effective Carrying Carrying outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount m amount m 1 US Dollar Private Placement $68m 24 05 16 6.3% 6.3% 48 1 US Dollar Private Placement $179m 24 05 18 6.4% 6.4% 147 137 147 185 1 $247m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6-month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap of which $68m matured in May 2016.
The Group values its US Dollar Private Placement USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
The carrying amounts of the USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 31 January 2017, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups USPP carrying amounts by 6m 2015 16: 12m increase.
The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2017.
Finance leases The Group leases some of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is six years 2015 16: six years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2015 16: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: 2016 17 2015 16 Present Present value of Minimum value of Minimum millions payments payments payments payments Less than one year 11 12 12 14 One to five years 22 27 21 26 More than five years 9 13 13 17 Total 42 52 46 57 Less amounts representing finance charges 10 11 Present value of minimum lease payments 42 46 The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups finance leases is 8.2% 2015 16: 8.6%.
Fair value millions 2016 17 2015 16 Bank overdrafts 76 Bank loans 9 11 Fixed term debt 153 192 Finance leases 49 56 Borrowings 211 335 Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 128 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 128 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 22 BORROWINGS CONTINUED 23 DERIVATIVES 2016 17 2015 16 The net fair value of derivatives by hedge designation at the balance sheet date is: Principal Effective Carrying Carrying outstanding Maturity date Coupon interest rate amount m amount m millions 2016 17 2015 16 1 US Dollar Private Placement $68m 24 05 16 6.3% 6.3% 48 Fair value hedges 54 56 1 US Dollar Private Placement $179m 24 05 18 6.4% 6.4% 147 137 Cash flow hedges 20 27 147 185 Non-designated hedges 10 10 64 93 1 $247m swapped to floating rate Sterling based on 6-month LIBOR plus a margin using a cross-currency interest rate swap of which $68m matured in May 2016.
The Group values its US Dollar Private Placement USPP on an amortised cost basis, adjusted for fair value gains and losses based on observable market Non-current assets 54 43 inputs attributable to the risk being hedged in designated and effective fair value hedge relationships.
Current assets 36 56 The carrying amounts of the USPP have been impacted both by exchange rate movements and fair value adjustments for interest rate risk.
At 31 January Current liabilities 26 6 2017, the cumulative effect of interest rate fair value adjustments is to increase the Groups USPP carrying amounts by 6m 2015 16: 12m increase.
64 93 The USPP contains a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each semi-annual and annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net The Group holds the following derivative financial instruments at fair value: interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2017. millions 2016 17 2015 16 Cross currency interest rate swaps 55 56 Finance leases The Group leases some of its buildings and fixtures and equipment under finance leases.
The average lease term maturity for buildings is six years 2015 16: Foreign exchange contracts 35 43 six years and for fixtures and equipment is two years 2015 16: two years.
Certain building leases include a clause to enable upward revision of the rental Derivative assets 90 99 charge to prevailing market conditions.
Future minimum lease payments under finance leases, together with the present value of minimum lease payments, are as follows: millions 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 Foreign exchange contracts 26 6 Present Present Derivative liabilities 26 6 value of Minimum value of Minimum millions payments payments payments payments The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusted for credit risk.
These fair value measurements are Less than one year 11 12 12 14 all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and credit risk.
One to five years 22 27 21 26 More than five years 9 13 13 17 All the derivatives held by the Group at fair value are considered to have fair values determined by level 2 inputs as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, representing significant observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Total 42 52 46 57 There are no non-recurring fair value measurements nor have there been any transfers of assets or liabilities between levels of the fair value hierarchy.
Less amounts representing finance charges 10 11 At 31 January 2017, net derivative assets included in net cash amount to 44m 2015 16: 63m net derivative assets.
Present value of minimum lease payments 42 46 Fair value hedges The interest rates inherent in the finance leases are fixed at the contract date for the lease term.
The weighted average effective interest rate on the Groups Fair value hedges comprise cross currency interest rate swap contracts that convert US Private Placement fixed rate debt into floating rate liabilities.
At 31 January 2017, the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 142m 2015 16: 174m.
Fair value Cash flow hedges millions 2016 17 2015 16 Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory purchases.
At 31 January 2017, the Sterling equivalent amount of Bank overdrafts 76 such contracts is 774m 2015 16: 504m.
The associated fair value gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during Bank loans 9 11 the next 12 months.
Gains of 60m 2015 16: gains of 50m have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Fixed term debt 153 192 Non-designated hedges Finance leases 49 56 The Group has entered into certain derivatives to provide a hedge against fluctuations in the income statement arising from balance sheet positions.
Borrowings 211 335 At 31 January 2017, the Sterling equivalent amount of such contracts is 679m 2015 16: 504m.
These have not been accounted for as hedges, since the fair value movements of the derivatives in the income statement offset the retranslation of the balance sheet positions.
These include short-term Fair values of borrowings have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest and foreign exchange rates.
This has resulted in level 2 inputs foreign exchange contracts.
as defined by the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement.
The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for embedded derivatives and none of these contracts has any embedded derivatives which are not closely related to the host contract and therefore the Group is not required to account for these separately.
The Group enters into netting agreements with counterparties to manage the credit and settlement risks associated with over-the-counter derivatives.
These netting agreements and similar arrangements generally enable the Group and its counterparties to settle cash flows on a net basis and set-off liabilities against available assets in the event that either party is unable to fulfill its contractual obligations.
com 129 128 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 DERIVATIVES CONTINUED Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: Net amounts of Gross amounts of Gross amounts derivatives derivatives not Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount At 31 January 2017 Derivative assets 90 90 26 64 Derivative liabilities 26 26 26 At 31 January 2016 Derivative assets 99 99 6 93 Derivative liabilities 6 6 6 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
The Board reviews the levels of exposure regularly and approves treasury policies covering the use of financial instruments required to manage these risks.
Kingfishers treasury function is not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
In the normal course of business, the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are fixed term debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the fixed term debt.
Currency risk The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble exposures are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland and Russia.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member states.
The Group continues to monitor potential exposures and risks, and consider effective risk management solutions.
It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
Kingfishers policy is to manage the interest rate and currency profile of its debt and cash using derivative contracts.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net cash position is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2017 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 24 90 27 120 142 544 42 603 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 6 Financing derivatives 619 432 150 81 44 Net cash 24 529 27 552 2 544 123 641 At 31 January 2016 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 32 188 23 26 174 461 49 495 Fair value adjustments to net cash 12 12 Financing derivatives 437 259 187 5 49 63 Net cash 32 249 23 285 1 466 98 546 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 130 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 130 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 23 DERIVATIVES CONTINUED Financial instruments principally affected by interest rate and currency risks, being the significant market risks impacting Kingfisher, are borrowings, deposits Offsetting of derivative assets and liabilities: and derivatives.
The following analysis illustrates the sensitivity of net finance costs reflecting the impact on profit and derivative cash flow hedges reflecting the impact on other comprehensive income to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
Net amounts of Gross amounts of Gross amounts derivatives derivatives not 2016 17 2015 16 Gross amounts of offset in the presented in the offset in the recognised consolidated consolidated consolidated Net finance Net finance millions derivatives balance sheet balance sheet balance sheet Net amount costs costs Income Income At 31 January 2017 millions costs costs Derivative assets 90 90 26 64 Effect of 1% rise in interest rates on net finance costs Derivative liabilities 26 26 26 Sterling 5 2 At 31 January 2016 Euro 6 3 Derivative assets 99 99 6 93 US Dollar 5 5 Derivative liabilities 6 6 6 Other 1 1 Due to the Groups hedging arrangements and offsetting foreign currency assets and liabilities, there is no significant impact on profit from the retranslation 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT of financial instruments.
Kingfishers treasury function has primary responsibility for managing certain financial risks to which the Group is exposed.
Kingfishers treasury function is 2016 17 2015 16 not run as a profit centre and does not enter into any transactions for speculative purposes.
Derivative Derivative cash flow cash flow hedges hedges In the normal course of business, the Group uses financial instruments including derivatives.
The main types of financial instruments used are fixed term millions Increase Increase debt, bank loans and deposits, money market funds, interest rate swaps, commodity swaps and foreign exchange contracts.
Effect of 10% appreciation in foreign exchange rates on derivative cash flow hedges Interest rate risk US Dollar against Sterling 43 33 Borrowings arranged at floating rates of interest expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk, whereas those arranged at fixed rates of interest expose US Dollar against Euro 21 24 the Group to fair value interest rate risk.
The Group manages its interest rate risk by entering into certain interest rate derivative contracts which modify the US Dollar against other 8 5 interest rate payable on the Groups underlying debt instruments, principally the fixed term debt.
Currency risk The impact of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash flow hedges results from retranslation of forward purchases of US Dollars used to hedge forecast The Groups principal currency exposures are to the Euro, US Dollar, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble.
The Euro, Polish Zloty and Russian Rouble exposures US Dollar purchases of inventories.
The associated fair value gains and losses are deferred in other comprehensive income until the purchases occur.
See are operational and arise through the ownership of retail businesses in France, Spain, Portugal, Germany, Ireland, Poland and Russia.
In particular, the Group generates a substantial part of its profit from the Eurozone, and as such is exposed to the economic uncertainty of its member The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact of movements in market variables on the carrying amount of trade and other payables and receivables, due to states.
the low associated sensitivity, and are before the effect of tax.
It has been prepared on the basis that the Groups debt, hedging activities, hedge accounting designations, and foreign currency proportion of debt and derivative contracts remain constant, reflecting the positions at 31 January 2017 and 31 January It is the Groups policy not to hedge the translation of overseas earnings into Sterling.
In addition, the Group has significant transactional exposure arising 2016 respectively.
As a consequence, the analysis relates to the position at those dates and is not necessarily representative of the years then ended.
In on the purchase of inventories denominated in US Dollars, which it hedges using forward foreign exchange contracts.
Under Group policies, the Group preparing the sensitivity analysis it is assumed that all hedges are fully effective.
companies are required to hedge committed inventory purchases and a proportion of forecast inventory purchases arising in the next 12 months, and this is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The effects shown above would be reversed in the event of an equal and opposite change in interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
The effect of these contracts on the Groups net cash position is as follows: Sterling Euro US Dollar Other millions Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Fixed Floating Total At 31 January 2017 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 24 90 27 120 142 544 42 603 Fair value adjustments to net cash 6 6 Financing derivatives 619 432 150 81 44 Net cash 24 529 27 552 2 544 123 641 At 31 January 2016 Net cash before fair value adjustments and financing derivatives 32 188 23 26 174 461 49 495 Fair value adjustments to net cash 12 12 Financing derivatives 437 259 187 5 49 63 Net cash 32 249 23 285 1 466 98 546 www.
com 131 130 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Liquidity risk The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the next four years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables and short term foreign exchange contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows including interest and as such may differ from the amounts disclosed on the balance sheet.
Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 January 2017 Bank loans 3 2 2 1 1 9 Fixed term debt 9 147 156 Finance leases 12 8 8 6 5 13 52 Derivatives receipts 9 147 156 Derivatives payments 1 98 99 At 31 January 2016 Bank overdrafts 76 76 Bank loans 3 3 1 2 1 10 Fixed term debt 57 8 130 195 Finance leases 14 9 7 5 5 17 57 Derivatives receipts 57 8 130 195 Derivatives payments 38 1 98 137 At 31 January 2017, the Group had undrawn revolving committed facilities of 225m due to mature in March 2021 and 400m due to mature in November 2018.
The facilities both contain a covenant requiring that, as at the end of each annual and semi-annual financial reporting period, the ratio of operating profit to net interest payable, excluding exceptional items, should not be less than 3 to 1 for the preceding 12-month period.
The Group has complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2017. Credit risk The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with strong short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings and offer same-day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair value of derivative contracts.
The credit risk is reduced further by spreading the investments and derivative contracts across several counterparties.
At 31 January 2017, the highest total cash investment with a single counterparty was 63m 2015 16: 63m.
The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk in respect of trade receivables.
Concentration of risk is limited as a result of low individual balances with short maturity, spread across a large number of unrelated customers.
At 31 January 2017, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 62m 2015 16: 62m, of which 3m 2015 16: 1m are over 120 days past due.
Refer to note 36 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Capital risk Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 36.
25 DEFERRED TAX millions 2016 17 2015 16 Deferred tax assets 28 11 Deferred tax liabilities 282 333 254 322 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 132 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 132 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset against each other when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax jurisdiction and when the Group Liquidity risk intends, and has the legally enforceable right, to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
The Group regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities.
This involves preparing a prudent cash flow forecast for the Postnext four years, determining the level of debt facilities required to fund the business, planning for repayments of debt at its maturity and identifying an Accelerated tax Gains on Tax employment millions depreciation property Provisions losses benefits Other Total appropriate amount of headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
At 1 February 2016 restated 136 114 41 9 116 6 322 The following table analyses the Groups non-derivative financial liabilities and derivative assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on Credit charge to income statement 13 24 32 6 2 73 the remaining period at the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
It excludes trade and other payables and short term foreign exchange Credit charge to other comprehensive income 1 1 6 2 8 contracts due to the low associated liquidity risk.
Exchange differences 18 7 7 1 4 13 At 31 January 2017 141 96 79 16 108 4 254 Less than More than millions 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Total At 31 January 2017 At 1 February 2015 as reported 144 91 28 4 101 10 314 Bank loans 3 2 2 1 1 9 Reclassifications 15 24 15 6 Fixed term debt 9 147 156 At 1 February 2015 restated 129 115 43 4 101 16 314 Finance leases 12 8 8 6 5 13 52 Charge credit to income statement 6 485 2 13 Derivatives receipts 9 147 156 Charge credit to other comprehensive income 10 17 9 18 Derivatives payments 1 98 99 Exchange differences 1 3 1 3 At 31 January 2016 restated 136 114 41 9 116 6 322 At 31 January 2016 At the balance sheet date, the Group has unused trading tax losses of 135m 2015 16: 103m available for offset against future profits.
A deferred tax asset Bank overdrafts 76 76 has been recognised in respect of 81m 2015 16: 45m of such losses.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the remaining 54m Bank loans 3 3 1 2 1 10 2015 16: 58m due to the unpredictability of future profit streams in the relevant entities.
Included in unrecognised tax losses are losses arising in Portugal Fixed term debt 57 8 130 195 of 7m 2015 16: 5m which can be carried forward only in the next one to twelve years.
Other unrecognised losses may be carried forward indefinitely.
Finance leases 14 9 7 5 5 17 57 At the balance sheet date, the Group also has unused capital tax losses of 96m 2015 16: 96m available for offset against future capital gains.
Derivatives receipts 57 8 130 195 Derivatives payments 38 1 98 137 No deferred tax liability is recognised on the unremitted earnings of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures.
As the earnings are continually reinvested by the Group, no tax is expected to be payable on them in the foreseeable future.
Earnings which could be remitted on which there would be tax to pay total At 31 January 2017, the Group had undrawn revolving committed facilities of 225m due to mature in March 2021 and 400m due to mature in 179m 2015 16: 3,630m.
The total temporary difference has decreased significantly in the year largely as a result of changes introduced by the French government that means a surtax of 3% on 100% of gross dividend distributions paid by French entities is no longer expected to apply to Group companies.
The Group has An amendment has been made to the prior year categorisation to reflect the nature of the deferred tax balances more appropriately.
complied with this covenant for the year ended 31 January 2017.
26 PROVISIONS Credit risk Onerous The Group deposits surplus cash with a number of banks with strong short-term credit ratings and with money market funds which have AAA credit ratings property millions contracts Restructuring Total and offer same-day liquidity.
A credit limit for each counterparty is agreed by the Board covering the full value of deposits and the fair value of derivative At 1 February 2016 21 256 277 contracts.
Release to income statement 37 37 Utilised in the year 3 85 88 The Groups exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of trade and other receivables, cash at bank, short-term deposits and the fair value of derivative assets.
Unwinding of discount and change in discount rate 1 6 7 Exchange differences 1 2 3 No further credit risk provision is required in excess of the normal provision for bad and doubtful debts as the Group has a low concentration of credit risk At 31 January 2017 20 142 162 in respect of trade receivables.
Current liabilities 2 61 63 At 31 January 2017, trade and other receivables that are past due but not provided against amount to 62m 2015 16: 62m, of which 3m Non-current liabilities 18 81 99 2015 16: 1m are over 120 days past due.
20 142 162 Refer to note 36 for details on guarantees provided by the Group.
Within the onerous property contracts provisions, the Group has provided against future liabilities for properties sublet at a shortfall and long-term idle Capital risk properties, along with properties acquired on acquisition of subsidiaries at above-market rents.
Such provisions exclude those related to restructuring Capital risk management disclosures are provided in the Financial Review on page 36. programmes which are included in the restructuring provisions.
The provisions are based on the present value of future cash outflows relating to rent, 25 DEFERRED TAX rates and service charges net of sublease income.
millions 2016 17 2015 16 Restructuring provisions include the estimated costs of the UK and continental Europe restructuring programmes as detailed further in note 5, the vast Deferred tax assets 28 11 majority of which relates to future idle property costs, in addition to some employee redundancy costs.
During the year, the Group entered into a lease Deferred tax liabilities 282 333 liability transaction with a third party to dispose of the remaining leases following the closure of these stores, with the related onerous lease provisions 254 322 continuing to be recognised.
A release of 37m was recorded in the year reflecting primarily savings on B&Q store exit costs as compared with the original provisions recognised, and the reversal of a provision following the announcement that one of the B&Q stores originally earmarked for closure would remain open.
com 133 132 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 PROVISIONS CONTINUED For the B&Q UK onerous leases, the weighted average remaining lease term to earliest exit, before any surrenders, assignment or mitigation through subleases, is nine years.
The provisions have been discounted to reflect the time value of money and the risks associated with the specific liabilities.
The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting surplus space.
27 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
The most significant defined benefit and defined contribution schemes are in the UK.
The principal overseas defined benefit schemes are in France, where they are mainly retirement indemnity in nature.
Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: millions 2016 17 2015 16 Charge to operating profit 23 25 From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.
Defined benefit schemes The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employer-appointed directors, one independent director and four member-nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group Pensions Department of Kingfisher plc.
The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse than expected.
The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out further below, and entering into a medically underwritten annuity policy.
A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2016.
Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 37m from April 2017.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the repayment schedule currently in place.
The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up.
Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the Trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in the UK scheme is recognised in full.
UK scheme interest in property partnership In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, the reported pension position does not reflect these investments.
UK property assets with market values of 83m and 119m were transferred, in January 2011 and June 2011 respectively, into the partnership and leased back to B&Q plc.
The Group retains control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute alternative properties.
The Trustee has a first charge over the properties in the event that Kingfisher plc becomes insolvent.
The schemes partnership interest entitles it to the majority of the income of the partnership over the 20-year period of the arrangement.
The payments to the scheme by Kingfisher SLP over this term are reflected as Group pension contributions on a cash basis.
At the end of this term, Kingfisher plc has the option to acquire the Trustees partnership interest in Kingfisher SLP.
The Group has control over the partnership and therefore it is consolidated in these Group financial statements.
Accordingly, advantage has been taken of the exemptions provided by Regulation 7 of the Partnerships Accounts Regulations 2008 from the requirements for preparation, delivery and publication of the partnerships accounts.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 134 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 134 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 26 PROVISIONS CONTINUED Income statement 2016 17 2015 16 For the B&Q UK onerous leases, the weighted average remaining lease term to earliest exit, before any surrenders, assignment or mitigation through millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total subleases, is nine years.
Amounts charged to operating profit The ultimate costs and timing of cash flows related to the above provisions are largely dependent on exiting the property lease contracts and subletting Current service cost 2 7 9 2 6 8 surplus space.
Administration costs 4 4 4 4 27 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS 6 7 13 6 6 12 The Group operates a variety of post-employment benefit arrangements covering both funded and unfunded defined benefit schemes and defined Amounts credited charged to net finance costs contribution schemes.
Net interest income expense 9 2 7 6 1 5 Total credited charged to income statement 3 9 6 7 7 Defined contribution schemes Costs for the Groups defined contribution pension schemes, at rates specified in the individual schemes rules, are as follows: Of the net charge to operating profit, a 9m charge 2015 16: 9m charge and 4m charge 2015 16: 3m charge are included in selling and distribution millions 2016 17 2015 16 expenses and administrative expenses respectively.
Actuarial gains and losses have been reported in the statement of comprehensive income.
Charge to operating profit 23 25 Balance sheet 2016 17 2015 16 From July 2012, an enhanced defined contribution pension scheme was offered to all UK employees.
Eligible UK employees have been automatically millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total enrolled into the scheme since 31 March 2013.
Present value of defined benefit obligations 2,999 126 3,125 2,374 102 2,476 Defined benefit schemes Fair value of scheme assets 3,238 18 3,256 2,620 15 2,635 The Groups principal defined benefit arrangement is its funded, final salary pension scheme in the UK.
This scheme was closed to new entrants from Net surplus deficit in schemes 239 108 131 246 87 159 April 2004 and was closed to future benefit accrual from July 2012.
The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in accordance with the terms of the Movements in the surplus or deficit are as follows: Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation.
The Trustee Board consists of ten Trustee directors, made up of five employer-appointed directors, one 2016 17 2015 16 independent director and four member-nominated directors.
The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group Pensions millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Department of Kingfisher plc.
Net surplus deficit in schemes at beginning of year 246 87 159 194 82 112 The main risk to the Group is that additional contributions are required if investment returns and demographic experience are worse than expected.
Current service cost 2 7 9 2 6 8 The scheme therefore exposes the Group to actuarial risks, such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk, interest rate risk and market investment risk.
Administration costs 4 4 4 4 The Trustee Board regularly reviews such risks and mitigating controls, with a risk register being formally approved on an annual basis.
The assets of the scheme are held separately from the Group and the Trustees investment strategy includes a planned medium-term fide-risking of assets, switching from Net interest income expense 9 2 7 6 1 5 return-seeking to liability-matching assets.
Other fide-risking activities have included the scheme acquiring an interest in a property partnership, as set out Net actuarial losses gains 46 4 50 16 3 19 further below, and entering into a medically underwritten annuity policy.
Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 1 37 A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is carried out every three years by an independent actuary for the Trustee and the last full valuation was carried out Exchange differences 10 10 2 2 as at 31 March 2016.
Net surplus deficit in schemes at end of year 239 108 131 246 87 159 Following this valuation and in accordance with the schemes Statement of Funding Principles, the Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed annual employer contributions of 37m from April 2017.
The contribution schedule has been derived with reference to a funding objective that targets a longer-term, low Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations are as follows: risk funding position in excess of the minimum statutory funding requirements.
This longer-term objective is based on the principle of the scheme reaching 2016 17 2015 16 a point where it can provide benefits to members with a high level of security, thereby limiting its reliance on the employer for future support.
The Company millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total monitors the scheme funding level on a regular basis and will review with the scheme Trustee at future valuations the continued appropriateness of the Present value of defined benefit obligations at beginning of year 2,374 102 2,476 2,606 97 2,703 repayment schedule currently in place.
Current service cost 2 7 9 2 6 8 The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a Interest expense 84 2 86 77 1 78 plan wind-up.
Actuarial losses gains changes in financial assumptions 637 3 640 200 1 201 Actuarial losses changes in demographic assumptions 57 57 UK scheme interest in property partnership Actuarial gains losses experience adjustments 60 1 59 33 2 35 In 2010 11, the Group established a partnership, Kingfisher Scottish Limited Partnership Kingfisher SLP, as part of an arrangement with the UK scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit and provide greater security to the Trustee.
The partnership interests are held by the Group and by the Benefits paid 95 1 96 78 1 79 scheme, the latter resulting from investments of 78m and 106m made by the Trustee in January and June 2011 respectively.
These investments followed Exchange differences 12 12 2 2 Group contributions of the same amounts into the scheme.
In accordance with IAS 19, Employee Benefits, the investments held by the scheme in Present value of defined benefit obligations at end of year 2,999 126 3,125 2,374 102 2,476 Kingfisher SLP do not represent plan assets for the purposes of the Groups consolidated financial statements.
com 135 134 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligations is 66% 2015 16: 62% in respect of deferred members and 34% 2015 16: 38% in respect of current pensioners.
The weighted average duration of the UK scheme obligations at the end of the year is 19 years 2015 16: 20 years.
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: 2016 17 2015 16 millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 2,620 15 2,635 2,800 15 2,815 Administration costs 4 4 4 4 Interest income 93 93 83 83 Actuarial gains losses actual return less interest income 588 588 217 217 Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 1 37 Benefits paid 95 1 96 78 1 79 Exchange differences 2 2 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 3,238 18 3,256 2,620 15 2,635 The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: 2016 17 2015 16 millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total 1 Government bonds 1,616 1,616 49% 1,155 1,155 44% Corporate bonds 849 849 26% 779 779 30% Derivatives 94 94 3% 129 129 5% UK equities 61 61 2% 57 57 2% Overseas equities 281 281 9% 295 295 11% Property 28 28 1% 25 25 1% Annuity 217 217 7% 180 180 7% Cash and other 280 18 298 9% 258 15 273 10% Total fair value of scheme assets 3,238 18 3,256 100% 2,620 15 2,635 100% 1 Including LDI repurchase agreement liabilities.
All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 397m 2015 16: 331m of property, annuity and other assets.
On 11 December 2015, the scheme entered into a medically underwritten annuity policy with a major insurance company for certain pensioner liabilities, thereby removing the longevity risk associated with these members.
To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit schemes assets, including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The government bond assets category in the table above includes gross assets of 3.0bn 2015 16: 2.8bn and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of 1.4bn 2015 16: 1.6bn.
Repurchase agreements are entered into with counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Interest rate and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds in matching the profile of the schemes liabilities.
The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 37m.
Principal actuarial valuation assumptions The assumptions used in calculating the costs and obligations of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are set by the Directors after consultation with independent professionally qualified actuaries.
The assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes in these assumptions can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations, as illustrated in the sensitivity analysis.
The UK scheme discount rate is derived using a single equivalent discount rate approach, based on the yields available on a portfolio of high-quality Sterling corporate bonds with the same duration as that of the scheme liabilities.
2016 17 2015 16 Annual % rate UK Overseas UK Overseas Discount rate 2.7 1.5 3.6 1.8 Price inflation 3.6 2.0 3.1 2.0 Rate of pension increases 3.3 2.9 Salary escalation n a 2.4 n a 2.4 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 136 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 136 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27 POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS CONTINUED For the UK scheme, the mortality assumptions used for IAS 19 purposes have been selected with regard to the characteristics and experience of the membership of the scheme as assessed from time to time in connection with triennial funding valuations.
The base mortality assumptions have been The present value of UK scheme defined benefit obligations is 66% 2015 16: 62% in respect of deferred members and 34% 2015 16: 38% in respect of derived using an analysis of current mortality rates carried out by Club Vita for the Trustee and the CMI life expectancy projection model data published by current pensioners.
The latter allowance is in line with CMI 2015 improvements subject to a long-term rate of 1.25% p. a. for both males and females.
The assumptions for life expectancy of UK scheme members are as follows: Movements in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows: Years 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 Age to which current pensioners are expected to live 60 now millions UK Overseas Total UK Overseas Total 87.1 86.8 Male Fair value of scheme assets at beginning of year 2,620 15 2,635 2,800 15 2,815 88.8 87.4 Female Administration costs 4 4 4 4 Age to which future pensioners are expected to live 60 in 15 years time Interest income 93 93 83 83 88.3 87.5 Male Actuarial gains losses actual return less interest income 588 588 217 217 90.7 88.6 Female Contributions paid by employer 36 2 38 36 1 37 The following sensitivity analysis for the UK scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes to key actuarial assumptions, Benefits paid 95 1 96 78 1 79 whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
Exchange differences 2 2 Fair value of scheme assets at end of year 3,238 18 3,256 2,620 15 2,635 Assumption Change in assumption Impact on defined benefit obligation Discount rate Increase decrease by 0.1% Decrease increase by 57m The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows: Price inflation Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 46m 2016 17 2015 16 Rate of pension increases Increase decrease by 0.1% Increase decrease by 48m millions UK Overseas Total % of total UK Overseas Total % of total Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year Increase by 96m 1 Government bonds 1,616 1,616 49% 1,155 1,155 44% Due to the asset-liability matching investment strategy, the above impacts on the obligations of changes in discount rate and price inflation would be Corporate bonds 849 849 26% 779 779 30% significantly offset by movements in the fair value of the scheme assets.
Derivatives 94 94 3% 129 129 5% UK equities 61 61 2% 57 57 2% 28 SHARE CAPITAL Number of Overseas equities 281 281 9% 295 295 11% ordinary Ordinary Property 28 28 1% 25 25 1% shares share capital millions millions Annuity 217 217 7% 180 180 7% At 1 February 2016 2,296 361 Cash and other 280 18 298 9% 258 15 273 10% New shares issued under share schemes 2 Total fair value of scheme assets 3,238 18 3,256 100% 2,620 15 2,635 100% Purchase of own shares for cancellation 58 9 1 Including LDI repurchase agreement liabilities.
At 31 January 2017 2,240 352 All UK scheme assets have quoted prices in active markets, except for 397m 2015 16: 331m of property, annuity and other assets.
On 11 December 2015, the scheme entered into a medically underwritten annuity policy with a major insurance company for certain pensioner liabilities, At 1 February 2015 2,350 369 thereby removing the longevity risk associated with these members.
New shares issued under share schemes 2 To reduce volatility risk a liability driven investment LDI strategy forms part of the Trustees management of the UK defined benefit schemes assets, Purchase of own shares for cancellation 56 8 including government bonds, corporate bonds and derivatives.
The government bond assets category in the table above includes gross assets of 3.0bn At 31 January 2016 2,296 361 2015 16: 2.8bn and associated repurchase agreement liabilities of 1.4bn 2015 16: 1.6bn.
Repurchase agreements are entered into with 5 counterparties to better offset the schemes exposure to interest and inflation rates, whilst remaining invested in assets of a similar risk profile.
Interest rate Ordinary shares have a par value of 15 pence per share.
7 and inflation rate derivatives are also employed to complement the use of fixed and index-linked bonds in matching the profile of the schemes liabilities.
During the year the Group purchased 58 million 2015 16: 56 million of the Companys own shares for cancellation at a cost of 200m 2015 16: 200m The estimated amount of total contributions to be paid to the UK and overseas pension schemes by the Group during the next financial year is 37m.
as part of its capital returns programme.
Of this 200m, 50m was deducted from equity in the previous financial year as a result of an irrevocable closed season buyback agreement which was in place as at 31 January 2016 see note 21.
2016 17 2015 16 Annual % rate UK Overseas UK Overseas Discount rate 2.7 1.5 3.6 1.8 Price inflation 3.6 2.0 3.1 2.0 Rate of pension increases 3.3 2.9 Salary escalation n a 2.4 n a 2.4 www.
com 137 136 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 OTHER RESERVES Translation Cash flow  reserve hedge reserve sale reserve Other Total At 1 February 2016 205 25 2 172 6 Currency translation differences Group 390 390 Joint ventures and associates 1 1 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 52 52 Gains transferred to inventories 60 60 Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value gains 5 5 Transferred to income statement 7 7 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 2 Other comprehensive income for the year 389 6 2 381 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 9 9 At 31 January 2017 184 19 181 384 At 1 February 2015 194 41 164 11 Currency translation differences Group 1 1 Joint ventures and associates 3 3 Transferred to income statement 7 7 Cash flow hedges Fair value gains 24 24 Gains transferred to inventories 50 50 Available-for-sale financial assets Fair value gains 2 2 Tax on items that may be reclassified 2 10 8 Other comprehensive income for the year 11 16 2 25 Purchase of own shares for cancellation 8 8 At 31 January 2016 205 25 2 172 6 The other category of reserves represents the premium on the issue of convertible loan stock in 1993, the merger reserve relating to the acquisition of Darty in 1993 and the capital redemption reserve.
30 SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS 2016 17 2015 16 Weighted Weighted average average Number of exercise Number of exercise options price options price thousands thousands Outstanding at beginning of year 26,532 1.13 26,578 1.05 1 2 Granted during the year 17,543 0.56 11,760 0.91 Forfeited during the year 3,900 0.97 4,076 0.95 Exercised during the year 3,481 1.14 7,730 0.61 Outstanding at end of year 36,694 0.87 26,532 1.13 Exercisable at end of year 1,332 1.26 1,601 0.57 1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2017 and 31 January 2016 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2017 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award and 2016 KISP Deferred Bonus Award grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
Since grants under the KISP Deferred Bonus Award are made following the year end to which the first year of charge relates, it is not possible to give the number of options granted until after the year end.
2 The weighted average exercise price for options granted during the year represents a blend of nil price Transformation Incentive awards, Alignment Share awards, KISP awards and discounted Sharesave options see below.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 138 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 138 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29 OTHER RESERVES Information on the share schemes is given in note 12 of the Companys separate financial statements.
Translation Cash flow Available-forOptions have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year.
On that basis, the weighted average share price during the year, rather than at the date millions reserve hedge reserve sale reserve Other Total of exercise, is 3.53 2015 16: 3.54.
The options outstanding at the end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to 3.15 and a weighted average At 1 February 2016 205 25 2 172 6 remaining contractual life of 5.4 years 2015 16: 4.2 years.
Currency translation differences The Group recognised a total expense of 15m in the year ended 31 January 2017 2015 16: 11m relating to equity-settled share-based payment Group 390 390 transactions.
Joint ventures and associates 1 1 Cash flow hedges The fair value of share options and deferred shares is determined by independent valuers using Black-Scholes and stochastic option pricing models.
Exercised during the year 3,481 1.14 7,730 0.61 2 Expected life is disclosed based on the UK schemes.
For the KISP, KISS and PSP schemes in the UK, the expiry date is 7 years from the date of grant.
For the Transformation Incentive award Outstanding at end of year 36,694 0.87 26,532 1.13 and Alignment Share award the expiry date is 10 years from the date of grant.
Expiry of overseas KISS schemes is 6 months from the date of vesting.
Expiry of the overseas Alignment Share award is 3 years from the date of grant.
Exercisable at end of year 1,332 1.26 1,601 0.57 3 Expected volatility was determined for each individual award, by calculating the historical volatility of the Groups share price plus reinvested dividends immediately prior to the grant of the award, over the same period as the vesting period of each award, adjusted by expectations of future volatility.
1 The charge to the income statement for the years ended 31 January 2017 and 31 January 2016 in respect of share-based payments includes the first years charge of the 2017 Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP Deferred Bonus Award and 2016 KISP Deferred Bonus Award grants respectively, based on the cash bonus for the year.
com 139 138 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 31 CASH GENERATED BY OPERATIONS millions 2016 17 2015 16 Operating profit 773 526 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 3 Depreciation and amortisation 253 240 Impairment losses 14 55 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property and property held for sale 4 3 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 143 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Share-based compensation charge 15 11 Increase decrease in inventories 46 56 Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 62 36 Increase in trade and other payables 4 27 Movement in provisions 125 233 Movement in post-employment benefits 25 25 Cash generated by operations 925 931 32 NET CASH millions 2016 17 2015 16 Cash and cash equivalents 795 730 Bank overdrafts 76 Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 795 654 Short-term deposits 70 Bank loans 9 10 Fixed term debt 147 185 Financing derivatives 44 63 Finance leases 42 46 Net cash 641 546 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Net cash at beginning of year 546 329 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, including amounts classified as held for sale 38 127 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 70 22 Repayment of bank loans 2 1 Repayment of fixed term debt 47 Receipt on financing derivatives 10 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 12 13 Cash flow movement in net cash 19 163 Adjustment for cash classified as held for sale B&Q China 57 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 76 3 Net cash at end of year 641 546 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 140 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 140 Accounts NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33 DISPOSALS 31 CASH GENERATED BY OPERATIONS millions 2016 17 2015 16 On 5 July 2016, the Group disposed of its remaining 30% interest in the B&Q China business to Wumei Holdings Inc. for a gross consideration of 67m, being the Sterling equivalent of RMB 582m.
The profit on disposal of 3m is analysed as follows: Operating profit 773 526 Share of post-tax results of joint ventures and associates 1 3 millions Depreciation and amortisation 253 240 Proceeds 67 Impairment losses 14 55 Disposal costs 4 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, investment property Net disposal proceeds 63 and property held for sale 4 3 Fair value of investment disposed 67 Profit on disposal of B&Q China 3 143 Fair value gains transferred from available-for-sale reserve 7 Profit on disposal of property and other companies 13 Exceptional profit on disposal 3 Share-based compensation charge 15 11 Increase decrease in inventories 46 56 In the prior year, the Group received gross proceeds of 140m before disposal costs of 6m and recognised a profit on disposal of 143m including 7m of accumulated currency translation differences recycled from other comprehensive income in respect of Wumei Holdings Inc. acquiring a controlling Decrease increase in trade and other receivables 62 36 70% stake in the B&Q China business.
In the prior year, the Group also completed the sale of a property company for proceeds of 18m and a profit of Increase in trade and other payables 4 27 16m, along with the sale of a UK company for proceeds of nil and a loss of 3m.
Movement in provisions 125 233 34 ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Movement in post-employment benefits 25 25 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Cash generated by operations 925 931 Assets held for sale 6 32 NET CASH In the prior year, assets held for sale comprised 6m of freehold properties in the UK.
millions 2016 17 2015 16 35 COMMITMENTS Cash and cash equivalents 795 730 Operating lease commitments Bank overdrafts 76 The Group is a lessee of various retail stores, offices, warehouses and plant and equipment under lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses Cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts 795 654 and renewal rights.
Short-term deposits 70 The Group is also a lessor and sub-lessor of space with freehold and leasehold properties respectively.
Lease arrangements under which rental payments Bank loans 9 10 are contingent upon sales, other performance or usage are not significant for the Group.
Fixed term debt 147 185 There are no corporate restrictions imposed by lease arrangements such as those concerning dividends, additional debt and further leasing.
Financing derivatives 44 63 Finance leases 42 46 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals payable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Net cash 641 546 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Less than one year 427 416 millions 2016 17 2015 16 One to five years 1,393 1,366 Net cash at beginning of year 546 329 More than five years 1,598 1,726 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents and bank overdrafts, including 3,418 3,508 amounts classified as held for sale 38 127 Decrease increase in short-term deposits 70 22 Undiscounted total future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: Repayment of bank loans 2 1 millions 2016 17 2015 16 Repayment of fixed term debt 47 Less than one year 12 13 Receipt on financing derivatives 10 One to five years 36 38 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 12 13 More than five years 34 39 Cash flow movement in net cash 19 163 82 90 Adjustment for cash classified as held for sale B&Q China 57 Exchange differences and other non-cash movements 76 3 The total of future minimum operating sublease receipts expected to be received is 62m 2015 16: 70m.
Net cash at end of year 641 546 Capital commitments Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Group amount to 31m 2015 16: 46m.
com 141 140 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36 CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Group has arranged for certain guarantees to be provided to third parties in the ordinary course of business.
Of these guarantees, only 1m 2015 16: 1m would crystallise due to possible future events not wholly within the Groups control.
The Group is subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business and provision is made where liabilities are considered likely to arise on the basis of current information and legal advice.
The Group files tax returns in many jurisdictions around the world and at any one time, various tax authorities are undertaking reviews of these returns.
Applicable tax laws and regulations are subject to differing interpretations and the resolution of a final tax position can take several years to complete.
Where it is considered that future tax liabilities are more likely than not to arise, an appropriate provision is recognised in the financial statements.
37 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries carried out a number of transactions with related parties in the normal course of business and on an arms length basis.
The names of the related parties, the nature of these transactions and their total value are shown below: 2016 17 2015 16 millions Income Receivable Income Receivable Transactions with Kota Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. in which the Group holds a 50% interest Commission and other income 1.0 0.4 1.2 0.1 Transactions with Crealfi S. A. in which the Group holds a 49% interest Provision of employee services 0.1 0.1 Commission and other income 6.4 0.3 5.7 0.3 Transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme Provision of administrative services 1.3 0.1 1.2 0.1 Services are usually negotiated with related parties on a cost-plus basis.
Goods are sold or bought on the basis of the price lists in force with non-related parties.
The remuneration of key management personnel is disclosed in note 8.
Other transactions with the Kingfisher Pension Scheme are disclosed in note 27.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 142 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 142
