Investor information Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Glossary Alternative Performance Measures In response to the Guidelines on Alternative Performance Measures APMs issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA, we have provided additional information on the APMs used by the Group.
The Directors use the APMs listed below as they are critical to understanding the financial performance and financial health of the Group.
As they are not defined by IFRS, they may not be directly comparable with other companies who use similar measures.
APM Definition Reconciliation for 2016 17 Group measures Like-for-like LFL sales Percentage change in year-on-year sales excluding VAT and fuel, Total turnover growth of 1.2% comprises LFL growth removing the impact of new store openings and closures in the sales of 1.7%, the impact of store openings and current or previous financial year.
closures of 2.2 % and fuel and other sales 1.7%.
Underlying profit Reported profit before tax including restructuring costs, but A reconciliation of this measure is provided before tax UPBT excluding impairment and provisions for onerous contracts, profit in note 1.4 of the financial statements.
loss on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses and investments, the impact of pension volatility and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis.
Underlying profit UPBT excluding restructuring costs.
A reconciliation of this measure is provided before tax and in note 1.4 of the financial statements.
restructuring costs Underlying profit UPBT adjusted for a normalised tax charge.
UPBT of 337m less a normalised tax charge after tax of 84m note 1.4 of the financial statements.
Underlying operating Reported operating profit including restructuring costs, but Reported operating profit 468m less profit excluding impairment and provisions for onerous contracts, profit impairment and provisions for onerous loss on disposal and exit of properties and sale of businesses and contracts 6m, profit loss on disposal and investments and other items impacting operating profit that do not exit of properties 19m, profit on sale of relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis.
investments 13m, plus other exceptional costs 2m.
Underlying net Reported net finance costs excluding net pension income and other A reconciliation of this measure is provided financecosts items impacting net finance costs that do not relate to the Groups in note 6.2 of the financial statements.
principal activities on an ongoing basis.
Underlying earnings Earnings per share based on underlying profit after tax rather than A reconciliation of this measure is included pershare reported profit after tax as described above.
in note 1.5 of the financial statements.
Free cash flow Movement in net debt before payment of dividend.
Movement in net debt 552m before payment of dividend 118m.
Net debt Net debt is cash and cash equivalents, non-current financial assets A reconciliation of this measure is provided and current financial assets, less borrowings, current financial in note 6.4 of the financial statements.
liabilities and non-current financial liabilities.
Working capital Movement in stock, movement in debtors, movement in creditors A reconciliation of this measure is provided movement and movement in provisions.
in note 5.6 of the financial statements.
Operating working Working capital movement adjusted for charges for onerous A reconciliation of this measure is provided capital movement contracts, onerous payments and other non-operating payments.
Return on capital Return on capital employed is calculated as return divided by average ROCE 6.9% equals return divided by average employed capital employed.
Return is defined as underlying profit after tax capital employed: adjusted for underlying net finance costs and operating lease rentals Return 443m on land and buildings.
Capital employed is defined as average net Underlying profit after tax 253m adjusted assets excluding net pension assets and liabilities, less average net for underlying net finance costs 97m debt, plus the lease multiplier 14 times rent payable.
and operating lease rentals on land and buildings 93m.
Average capital employed 6,453m Average net assets excluding the net pension asset 3,681m, average net debt 1,470m and the lease multiplier 1,302m.
Normalised tax Normalised tax is the tax rate applied to the Groups principal A reconciliation of the tax charge is found activities on an ongoing basis.
This is calculated by adjusting the in note 2.2.
effective tax rate for the period to exclude the impact of profit loss relating to property disposals and sale of businesses and investments, pension interest, impairment and provisions for onerous contracts, and other items that do not relate to the Groups principal activities on an ongoing basis.
