JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 08:50 Page 35 Governance continued 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Under applicable law and regulations the Directors are also Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial responsible for preparing a Directors Report and Directors statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors Remuneration Report that comply with that law and those have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance regulations.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising Financial pages 23 and 24 confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge, Reporting Standard 102, the Financial Reporting Standard the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland FRS 102 and with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors must not United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and taken as a whole, the annual report and accounts are fair, net return or loss of the Company.
balanced and understandable, provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Annual Report and performance, business model and strategy and that they give a Accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess total return or loss of the Company for that period.
In order to the Companys position and performance, business model and provide these confirmations, and in preparing these financial strategy.
statements, the Directors are required to: The Board also confirms that it is satisfied that the Strategic select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Report and Directors Report include a fair review of the consistently: development and performance of the business, and the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and that it faces.
prudent: The Financial Statements are published on the state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, comprising www.
co. uk website, which is maintained by the FRS 102, have been followed, subject to any material Manager.
The maintenance and integrity of the website departures disclosed and explained in the financial maintained by the Manager is, so far as it relates to the Company, statements: the responsibility of the Manager.
The work carried out by the prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis Auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will integrity of this website and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no continue in business: and responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented to the website.
The accounts are notify the Companys shareholders in writing about the use, if prepared in accordance with UK legislation, which may differ from any, of disclosure exemptions in FRS 102 in the preparation of legislation in other jurisdictions.
the financial statements and the Directors confirm that they have done so.
For and on behalf of the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Hamish Leslie Melville records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Chairman transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure 6th April 2017 that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 35
