JPM Mercantile pp64 70 06 04 2017 11:25 Page 64 Shareholder Information that the Company may before such expiry make offers or Notice of Annual General Meeting agreements which would or might require shares to be allotted or Rights to be granted after such expiry and so that Notice is hereby given that the one hundred the Directors of the Company may allot shares and grant and thirty first Annual General Meeting of The Rights in pursuance of such offers or agreements as if the Mercantile Investment Trust plc will be held at authority conferred hereby had not expired.
Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH on Authority to disapply pre-emption rights on allotment of Wednesday, 24th May 2017 at 12.00 noon for the relevant securities Special Resolution following purposes: 13.
THAT subject to the passing of Resolution 12 set out above, 1.
To receive the Directors Report, the Annual Accounts and the the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby Auditors Report for the year ended 31st January 2017. empowered pursuant to Sections 570 and 573 of the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 560 2.
To approve the Companys Remuneration Policy.
of the Act for cash pursuant to the authority conferred by 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year Resolution 12 as if Section 561 1 of the Act did not apply to ended 31st January 2017. any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash up to an 4.
To reappoint Angus Gordon Lennox as a Director of the aggregate nominal amount of 1,064,544 representing Company.
approximately 5% of the issued share capital as at the date of 5.
To reappoint Sandy Nairn as a Director of the Company.
the passing of this resolution at a price of not less than the net asset value per share and shall expire upon the expiry of 6.
To reappoint Ian Russell as a Director of the Company.
the general authority conferred by Resolution12 above, save 7.
To reappoint Helen James as a Director of the Company.
that the Company may before such expiry make offers or agreements which would or might require equity securities 8.
To reappoint Jeremy Tigue as a Director of the Company.
to be allotted after such expiry and so that the Directors of the 9.
To reappoint Harry Morley as a Director of the Company.
Company may allot equity securities in pursuant of such offers or agreements as if the power conferred hereby had not 10.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors to the expired.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Authority to repurchase the Companys shares Special Resolution Special Business: 14.
THAT the Company be generally and subject as hereinafter To consider the following resolution: appears unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 701 of the Act to make market purchases within the Adoption of new Articles of Association Special meaning of Section 693 of the Act of its issued shares on Resolution such terms and in such manner as the Directors may from 11.
THAT the Articles of Association produced to the meeting and time to time determine.
initialled by the Chairman of the meeting for the purpose of identification be adopted as the new Articles of Association of PROVIDED ALWAYS THAT the Company in the substitution for, and to the exclusion of, i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby the existing Articles of Association with effect from the authorised to be purchased shall be 12,781,006 or if less, conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
that number of ordinary shares which is equal to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of Authority to allot new shares Ordinary Resolution the passing of this Resolution: 12.
THAT the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby ii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary generally and unconditionally authorised, in substitution of share shall be 25p: any authorities previously granted to the Directors, pursuant to and in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act iii the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary 2006 the Act to exercise all the powers of the Company to share or unit shall be an amount equal to the highest of: allot shares in the Company and to grant rights to subscribe a 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for, or to convert any security into, shares in the Company for an ordinary share taken from and calculated by rights up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,064,544, reference to the London Stock Exchange Daily Official representing approximately 5% of the Companys issued share List for the five business days immediately preceding the capital as at the date of the passing of this resolution, day on which the ordinary share is contracted to be provided that this authority shall expire at the conclusion of purchased: or b the price of the last independent trade: the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2018 or c the highest current independent bid: unless renewed at a general meeting prior to such time, save 64 JPM Mercantile pp64 70 05 04 2017 08:52 Page 65 Shareholder Information continued iv any purchase of ordinary shares will be made in the Notes market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset These notes should be read in conjunction with the notes on the reverse value per ordinary share as determined by the Directors : of the proxy form.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting may appoint v the authority hereby conferred shall expire on another person s who need not be a member of the Company to 23rd November 2018 unless the authority is renewed at exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2018 or at any Meeting.
A member can appoint more than one proxy in relation to other general meeting prior to such time: and the Meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attaching to different shares held by him.
vi the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary 2.
A proxy does not need to be a member of the Company but must shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the attend the Meeting to represent you.
Your proxy could be the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be Chairman, another director of the Company or another person who executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such has agreed to attend to represent you.
Details of how to appoint the authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares Chairman or another person s as your proxy or proxies using the proxy pursuant to any such contract.
form are set out in the notes to the proxy form.
If a voting box on the proxy form is left blank, the proxy or proxies will exercise his their Approval of dividend policy Ordinary Resolution discretion both as to how to vote and whether he they abstain s from 15.
THAT the shareholders approve the Companys dividend voting.
Your proxy must attend the Meeting for your vote to count.
policy to continue to pay four quarterly interim dividends, Appointing a proxy or proxies does not preclude you from attending which in the year under review totalled46.0 pence per share.
the Meeting and voting in person.
Any instrument appointing a proxy, to be valid, must be lodged in By order of the Board accordance with the instructions given on the proxy form, no later Jonathan Latter than 12.00 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting i. e. excluding For and on behalf of weekends and bank holidays.
You may change your proxy instructions by returning a new proxy Company Secretary appointment.
The deadline for receipt of proxy appointments also applies in relation to amended instructions.
Any attempt to terminate 13th April 2017 or amend a proxy appointment received after the relevant deadline will be disregarded.
Where two or more valid separate appointments of proxy are received in respect of the same share in respect of the same Meeting, the one which is last received regardless of its date or the date of its signature shall be treated as replacing and revoking the other or others as regards that share: if the Company is unable to determine which was last received, none of them shall be treated as valid in respect of that share.
To be entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting and for the purpose of the determination by the Company of the number of votes they may cast, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the Meeting the specified time.
If the Meeting is adjourned to a time not more than 48 hours after the specified time applicable to the original Meeting, that time will also apply for the purpose of determining the entitlement of members to attend and vote and for the purpose of determining the number of votes they may cast at the adjourned Meeting.
If however the Meeting is adjourned for a longer period then, to be so entitled, members must be entered on the Companys register of members as at 6.30 p. m. two business days prior to the adjourned Meeting or, if the Company gives notice of the adjourned Meeting, at the time specified in that notice.
Changes to entries on the register after this time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of persons to attend or vote at the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Entry to the Meeting will be restricted to shareholders and their proxy or proxies, with guests admitted only by prior arrangement.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 65 JPM Mercantile pp64 70 06 04 2017 12:16 Page 66 Shareholder Information continued 7.
A corporation, which is a shareholder, may appoint an individual s to Person: they can only be exercised by the member.
However, a act as its representative s and to vote in person at the Meeting see Nominated Person may have a right under an agreement between instructions given on the proxy form.
In accordance with the him and the member by whom he was nominated to be appointed as provisions of the Companies Act 2006, each such representative s a proxy for the Meeting or to have someone else so appointed.
If a may exercise on behalf of the corporation the same powers as the Nominated Person does not have such a right or does not wish to corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the exercise it, he may have a right under such an agreement to give Company, provided that they do not do so in relation to the same instructions to the member as to the exercise of voting rights.
It is therefore no longer necessary to nominate a designated 12.
In accordance with Section 311A of the Companies Act 2006, the corporate representative.
Representatives should bring to the meeting contents of this notice of meeting, details of the total number of evidence of their appointment, including any authority under which it shares in respect of which members are entitled to exercise voting is signed.
rights at the AGM, the total voting rights members are entitled to 8.
Members that satisfy the thresholds in Section 527 of the Companies exercise at the AGM and, if applicable, any members statements, Act 2006 can require the Company to publish a statement on its members resolutions or members matters of business received by website setting out any matter relating to: a the audit of the the Company after the date of this notice will be available on the Companys accounts including the Auditors report and the conduct Companys website www.
of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: or b any 13.
The register of interests of the Directors and connected persons in the circumstances connected with an Auditor of the Company ceasing to share capital of the Company and the Directors letters of appointment hold office since the previous AGM: which the members propose to are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during raise at the meeting.
The Company cannot require the members usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public requesting the publication to pay its expenses.
Any statement placed holidays excepted.
It will also be available for inspection at the Annual on the website must also be sent to the Companys Auditors no later General Meeting.
No Director has any contract of service with the than the time it makes its statement available on the website.
business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement 14.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of that the Company has been required to publish on its website meeting to communicate with the Company for any purposes other pursuant to this right.
Pursuant to Section 319A of the Companies Act 2006, the Company 15.
As an alternative to completing a hard copy Form of Proxy Voting must cause to be answered at the AGM any question relating to the Instruction Form, you can appoint a proxy or proxies electronically by business being dealt with at the AGM which is put by a member visiting www.
You will need your Voting ID, Task ID and attending the meeting except in certain circumstances, including if it Shareholder Reference Number this is the series of numbers printed is undesirable in the interests of the Company or the good order of the under your name on the Form of Proxy Voting Instruction Form.
meeting or if it would involve the disclosure of confidential Alternatively, if you have already registered with Equiniti Limiteds information.
online portfolio service, Shareview, you can submit your Form of Proxy 10.
Under sections 338 and 338A of the 2006 Act, members meeting the at www.
Full instructions are given on both websites.
threshold requirements in those sections have the right to require the 16.
As at 5th April 2017 being the latest business day prior to the Company: i to give, to members of the Company entitled to receive publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital consists notice of the Meeting, notice of a resolution which those members of 94,449,218 Ordinary shares of which 9,285,667 are held in intend to move and which may properly be moved at the Meeting: Treasury, representing 10.9% of the shares in issue, carrying one vote and or ii to include in the business to be dealt with at the Meeting each.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 85,163,551. any matter other than a proposed resolution which may properly be 17.
A copy of the current articles of association of the Company and the included in the business at the Meeting.
A resolution may properly be proposed new articles of association of the Company will be available moved, or a matter properly included in the business unless: a in the for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, Sundays and case of a resolution only it would, if passed, be ineffective whether by public holidays excepted at the offices of JPMorgan Funds Limited, reason of any inconsistency with any enactment or the Companys 60 Victoria Embankment, London EC4Y 0JP, from the date of the constitution or otherwise : b it is defamatory of any person: or c it is Annual Report in which this notice is included up until the close of the frivolous or vexatious.
A request made pursuant to this right may be in Annual General Meeting.
Copies will also be available at Trinity House, hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH, being the place of the Annual General notice is to be given or the matter to be included in the business, must Meeting, for 15 minutes prior to, and during, the meeting.
be accompanied by a statement setting out the grounds for the request, must be authenticated by the person s making it and must Electronic appointment CREST members be received by the Company not later than the date that is six clear CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies by utilising the weeks before the Meeting, and in the case of a matter to be included CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Meeting in the business only must be accompanied by a statement setting out and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the the grounds for the request.
See further instructions on the proxy form.
A copy of this notice has been sent for information only to persons who have been nominated by a member to enjoy information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 a Nominated Person.
The rights to appoint a proxy can not be exercised by a Nominated 66
