Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Information at your fingertips Shareholder information Customer Corporate Other relevant shareholder information is available, for example share price history, Our website, www.
com, allows you Our corporate website, dividends, financial calendar and AGM minutes.
to shop online, search hundreds of inspirational www.
com, is a oneElectronic communications recipes for the food we make, move and stop portal that exists for the benefit of our Electronic communications eComms is the sell, and even find ideas for popular eventinvestors, the public and the media.
This site has fastest and most environmentally friendly way themed activities.
the following sections: to communicate with our shareholders.
com deliveries currently service 58% Instead of receiving paper copies of the of Great Britain: a postcode checker enables You will find information about the Group, its operations, strategy and structure, and past annual and interim financial results, notices of you to see if you are eligible for our home shareholder meetings and other shareholder delivery service.
documents, you will receive an email to let Jobs At Morrisons.
com you can: you know this information is available on Career opportunities and information Buy over 19,000 Morrisons grocery products our website.
For our Benefit from competitive one-off Visiting our website to obtain our results dedicated recruitment website, go to delivery charges www.
co. uk jobs reduces our environmental impact by saving on paper and also reduces our print and Purchase a monthly, weekly or annual delivery Media centre distribution costs.
pass for flat-fee unlimited delivery Latest releases about the growing estate of Morrisons, along with promotions and Check out latest promotions and Sign up to eComms on our website at seasonal events product news.
com and follow the investor eComms link.
Review selected offline-only products Corporate responsibility Here you can find out about our corporate Sign up for our latest offers by email responsibility ethos, including how we Find recipes based on our ingredients and take good care of our environment, inspired by our campaigns events society and how we go about business.
Learn about our produce and its journey from www.
co. uk cr field to fork Investors Read content on healthy eating, reducing food Presentations, announcements and financial waste and our support for various causes reports can be quickly and easily downloaded You can also sign up to and manage your More or viewed on-screen as PDFs.
You can easily Card account on our website.
In our dedicated navigate around the Annual Report and area, you can find out what our loyalty card Financial Statements 2016 17 on-screen, scheme has to offer, check your points balance viewing only the parts you want to, at and make changes to preferences.
com annual-report-2017 Not all products are available online.
However, the website is an excellent vehicle for finding Webcasts out more about things we offer.
Webcasts of the Directors delivering the preliminary results for 2016 17 on 9 March 2017 You are also able to preview selected items are available.
from ranges such as Nutmeg and Market Street, and our new caf offers, in-store services, award wins, pharmacies, glass hire, flower shops and new store openings online.
We also provide an online Store Finder where you can find details of your nearest store, opening times and services.
Designed & Produced by Printing by Radley Yeldar Geoff Neal Group Paper stock: This report is printed ry.
com on Amadeus Offset uncoated, a 100% recycled paper.
Photography by Amadeus Offset is manufactured Chris Leah Photography to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
125 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Hilmore House, Gain Lane Bradford BD3 7DL Telephone: 0845 611 5000 Visit our website: www.
