Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 General information There are a number of standards and interpretations issued by the IASB Company information that are effective for financial statements after this reporting period.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC is a public limited company incorporated These are: in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 Registration number 358949.
The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and IFRS 9 Financial Instruments was published in July 2014 and will be its registered address is Hilmore House, Gain Lane, Bradford, BD3 7DL, effective for the Group from the period beginning 5 February 2018.
The standard is applicable to financial assets and financial liabilities, and covers the classification, measurement, impairment and fide-recognition Basis of preparation of financial assets and financial liabilities together with a new hedge accounting model.
Work on the impact of the new recognition, The financial statements have been prepared for the 52 weeks ended impairment and general hedge accounting requirements is in its early 29 January 2017 2016: 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 in accordance stages and we are assessing whether any changes to the Groups with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International systems and processes are required to aid the implementation of the Financial Reporting Standards Interpretation Committee IFRS IC standard.
It is not yet practicable to quantify the effect of IFRS 9 on interpretations as adopted by the European Union and with those parts the Group: of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
IFRS and IFRS IC interpretations are issued by the International IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers will be effective for Accounting Standards Board the IASB and must be adopted into the Group from the period beginning 5 February 2018, replacing IAS 18 European Union law, referred to as endorsement, before they become Revenue, IAS 11 Construction contracts and related interpretations.
mandatory under the IAS Regulation.
The standard establishes a principles-based approach for revenue recognition and is based on the concept of recognising revenue when The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
a customer obtains control of a goods or service and has the ability The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the goods or services.
nearest million, except in some instances, where it is deemed relevant to It applies to all contracts with customers, except those in the scope disclose the amounts up to two decimal places.
They are drawn up on the of other standards.
It replaces the separate models for goods, services historical cost basis of accounting, except as disclosed in the accounting and construction contracts under the current accounting standards.
policies set out within these financial statements.
Based on the Groups preliminary assessment from work performed The Groups accounting policies have, unless otherwise stated, been to date, the Group believes that the adoption of IFRS 15 will not have applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.
a material impact on the consolidated financial statements but work is still ongoing to fully quantify its impact, with particular focus on Accounting reference date treatment of the Groups customer loyalty arrangements: and The accounting period of the Group ends on the Sunday falling between IFRS 16 Leases was published in January 2016 and will be effective for 29 January and 4 February each year.
the Group from the period beginning 4 February 2019, replacing IAS 17 Leases, subject to EU endorsement.
The standard requires lessees New IFRS and amendments to IAS and interpretations to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases unless the lease term There have been no significant changes to accounting under IFRS is 12 months or less or the underlying asset is of low value.
IFRS 16 which have affected the Groups results.
The Group has considered the represents a significant change in the accounting and reporting of following amendments to published standards that are effective for the leases and it will primarily change the balance sheet as well as impacting first time for the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 and concluded that the income statement and lessee reporting as disclosed in note 6.8. they are either not relevant to the Group or they do not have a significant Accounting requirements for lessors as disclosed in note 3.6 will be impact on the Groups financial statements.
These amendments are: substantially unchanged from IAS 17.
The Group is in the process of quantifying the impact of the new standard.
The new standard is likely Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: to have an impact on the Groups results and a material impact on Amendments to IFRS 11 Joint arrangements on accounting for the balance sheet, as the majority of arrangements that are currently acquisitions of interests in joint operations: accounted for as operating leases will come onto the Groups balance Amendments to IAS 16 Plant, property and equipment and sheet.
However, it is not yet practicable to fully quantify the effect of IAS38 Intangible assets on acceptable methods of depreciation IFRS 16 on these consolidated financial statements.
and amortisation: Amendments to IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements which allows entities to equity account for joint ventures and associates in their separate financial statements: and Annual improvements 2012-2014.
63 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 General information continued Basis of consolidation Critical accounting judgements and estimates Subsidiaries including partnerships are all entities over which the Group The judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts has control.
The Group controls an entity when it has power over that recognised in these financial statements, and sources of estimation entity, is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement uncertainty that have a significant risk of resulting in material adjustment with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its to carrying amounts in the next financial year, are: power over the entity.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date Impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are deconsolidated and onerous property commitments note 1.4, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 5.5 : from the date the control ceases.
The financial statements of subsidiaries Commercial income note 1.1, 1.6, 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 : used in the consolidation are prepared for the same reporting period IT and intangible assets note 3.2 : as the Company and are based on consistent accounting policies.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income Stock note 5.1, 5.2 : and and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated Pensions note 8. on consolidation.
These are also described within the Corporate governance report on Foreign currencies page 29.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange Alternative Performance Measures at the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currency are of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted retranslated at the rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly losses arising on retranslation are included in the income statement for comparable with other companies alternative performance measures the period.
and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
For definitions of the alternative performance measures used, see the Glossary on page 122.
