JPM Mercantile pp46 63 05 04 2017 08:51 Page 63 Regulatory Disclosures ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FuND MANAGERS DIRECTIVE AIFMD DISCLOSuRES uNAuDITED Leverage For the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, leverage is any method which increases the Companys exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a ratio between the Companys exposure and its net asset value and is calculated on a gross and a commitment method in accordance with AIFMD.
Under the gross method, exposure represents the sum of the Companys positions without taking into account any hedging and netting arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure is calculated after certain hedging and netting positions are offset against each other.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Leverage The Companys maximum and actual leverage levels at 31st January 2017 are shown below: Gross Commitment Method Method Leverage Exposure Maximum limit 200% 200% Actual 109% 110% JPMF Remuneration The AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM the AIFM Remuneration Policy.
Details of JPMFs AIFM Remuneration Policy are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk This disclosure has been prepared in accordance with the AIFMD, the European Commission Delegated Regulation supplementing the AIFMD, the Guidelines on Sound Remuneration Policies under the AIFMD issued by the European Securities and Markets Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook SYSC 19B: The AIFM Remuneration Code and FUND 3.3.
JPMF Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy for the EMEA Global Investment business of J. P. Morgan can be found at https: am.
com gb en asset-management gim adv legal .
This policy includes details of the alignment with risk management, the financial and non-financial criteria used to evaluate performance and the measures adopted to avoid or manage conflicts of interest.
JPMF Quantitative Disclosures Disclosure in accordance with FUND 3.3.
5, Article 22 2 e and 22 2 f of the AIFMD and Article 107 of the Delegated Regulation are disclosed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk SECuRITIES FINANCING TRANSACTIONS REGuLATION SFTR DISCLOSuRES uNAuDITED The Company does not engage in Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing transactions include repurchase transactions, securities or commodities lending and securities or commodities borrowing, buy-selling back transactions or sell-buy back transactions and margin lending transactions or Total Return Swaps.
Accordingly, disclosures required by Article 13 of the Regulation are not applicable for the year ended 31st January 2017.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 63
