JPM Mercantile pp64 70 06 04 2017 12:14 Page 67 Shareholder Information continued Appendix to Notice of Meeting Resolution 11 seeks approval from shareholders to adopt new articles of association for the Company the New Articles.
The principal changes proposed to be introduced in the New Articles and their effects are set out below.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU AIFMD and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Regulations 2013 SI 2013 1773 the AIFM Regulations The Board is proposing to make amendments to the current articles of association of the Company the Existing Articles in response to the AIFMD and all applicable rules and regulations implementing that Directive.
The proposed new provisions are as follows: 1.1.
The Existing Articles will be amended to provide that the net asset value per share of the Company shall be calculated at least annually and be disclosed to shareholders from time to time in such manner as may be determined by the Board.
The amendment will have no bearing on current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the AIFM Regulations.
The AIFM Regulations require that prior to any new or existing investor making an investment in the Company certain prescribed information is to be made available to them.
Therefore, the New Articles will include language with the effect that such information shall be made available to prospective and existing shareholders in such manner as may be determined by the Board from time to time including, in certain cases, on the Companys website or by electronic notice.
The valuation of the Companys assets will be performed in accordance with prevailing accounting standards, in line with guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority.
This reflects best practice and has no bearing on current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the AIFM Regulations.
The Existing Articles will be amended to provide that the Companys annual report and accounts may be prepared either in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles of the United Kingdom or such other international accounting standards as may be permitted under the law of England and Wales.
Removal of requirement for Directors to hold ordinary shares of the Company as a qualification requirement The Existing Articles will be amended to remove the requirement that in order to qualify as a Director, a Director is required to hold alone and not jointly with another ordinary shares in the Company of the nominal amount of 125 or shares in the Company of any other class of the nominal amount of 500.
Increase in the cap on annual aggregate Directors fees 3.1.
The Existing Articles will be amended to provide that the aggregate fees that the Directors will be paid out of the funds of the Company by way of remuneration for their services as Directors will not exceed 400,000 per annum or such larger sum as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine.
Associated with the calculation of the aggregate annual fees paid to Directors, the Existing Articles have been amended to clarify that certain expenses properly incurred by the Directors in connection with their attendance at relevant meetings and special remuneration paid to Directors in relation to the performance of services that the other Directors consider go beyond the ordinary duties of a Director, are to be excluded for the purposes of calculating such aggregate annual fees.
The Existing Articles have been amended to clarify the value of investment that the Directors may permit to be made in any one company or body.
The amendment is primarily to provide clarification and the overall principle remains the same i. e. subject to certain exceptions, the Directors shall not make any investment in any one company or body with a value in excess of 3% of the gross assets of the Company at the time of investment save that the Directors may, in respect of up to a maximum of 40% of the gross assets of the Company at the time of investment, make an investment in any one company or body with a value of up to 8% of the gross assets of the Company at the time of investment.
We have clarified that the relevant valuation will be one based on the Companys usual accounting policies and procedures.
4.2 In addition, the Existing Articles will be amended to provide that the investment restriction outlined above shall not apply to investments by the Company in certain money market funds.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 67 JPM Mercantile pp64 70 05 04 2017 08:52 Page 68 Shareholder Information continued 5.
Distributions out of capital reserves The statutory rules governing investment trusts were amended in 2012.
In particular, the rule which prohibited an investment trust from distributing any surplus arising from the realisation of its investments was repealed.
In compliance with the previous statutory regime, the Company has provisions in the Existing Articles which expressly prohibit the distribution of any surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
In the light of the amended statutory rules, the Board no longer considers it appropriate to have such a prohibition in the Companys articles of association and therefore proposes that it is removed.
The New Articles, if adopted, remove this prohibition.
The Board believes that the removal of this restriction will give the Company greater flexibility in the long term as it will enable the Company to make distributions from any surplus arising from the realisation of any investment.
However, the Board has no intention of exercising this authority at the current time.
6. International tax regimes requiring the exchange of information The Board is proposing to include provisions in the New Articles to provide the Company with the ability to require shareholders to co-operate in respect of the exchange of information to comply with the Companys international tax reporting obligations.
The Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act 2010 of the United States of America commonly known as the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act and all associated regulations and official guidance FATCA imposes a system of information reporting on certain entities including foreign financial institutions such as the Company following the enactment of the UK International Tax Compliance United States of America Regulations 2013 on 1st September 2013.
These regulations have now been replaced by the International Tax Compliance Regulations 2015 the Regulations.
The Existing Articles will be amended to provide the Company with the ability to require shareholders to co-operate with it in ensuring that the Company is able to comply with its obligations under the Regulations in order to avoid being deemed to be a Non-participating Financial Institution for the purposes of FATCA and consequently having to pay withholding tax to the US Internal Revenue Service.
The Existing Articles will also be amended to ensure that the Company will not be liable for any monies that become subject to a deduction or withholding relating to FATCA, as such liability would be to the detriment of shareholders as a whole.
The Regulations also include the automatic exchange of information regimes being brought in by the new tax regulation under the OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Common Reporting Standard for Automatic Exchange of Financial Account Information the Common Reporting Standard which will require investment trust companies to provide personal information to HMRC on certain investors who purchase shares in investment trusts.
As a result, the Company will have to provide information annually to the local tax authority on the tax residency of a number of non-UK based certified shareholders and corporate entities.
Therefore, the Existing Articles will also be amended in order to provide the Company with the ability to require shareholders to co-operate in respect of these broader obligations including its obligations under the OECD and FATCA.
Vacation of office by Directors Finally, the Board is proposing to amend the provision in the Existing Articles that provides for automatic termination of a Directors appointment in circumstances where the Director has been suffering mental ill health and has been admitted to hospital in pursuance of an application for admission for treatment under the Mental Health Act 1983 or, in Scotland, an application for admission under the Mental Health Scotland Act 1984 or a court order has been made concerning a mental disorder for the Directors detention or for the appointment of a guardian or other person to exercise powers with respect to his property or affairs.
This is in response to developments in mental health legislation and reflects the position in the model articles for public companies as set out in the Companies Model Articles Regulations 2008 3229.
