Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 4 Interests in other entities 4.1 Accounting policies Joint ventures The Group applies IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements to all joint arrangements.
Under IFRS 11 investments in joint arrangements are classified as either joint operations or joint ventures depending on the contractual rights and obligations of each investor.
The Group has assessed the nature of its joint arrangements and determined them to be joint ventures.
Joint ventures are accounted for under the equity method and are initially recognised at cost.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the equity accounted investees, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases.
Investments Investments comprise investments in equity instruments held for long term investment.
They are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, where the fair value can be measured reliably.
Where the fair value of the instruments cannot be measured reliably, for example, when there is variability in the range of estimates, the investments are recognised at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
When the Group disposes of an investment, the fair value of the consideration received less the carrying value of the investment at the date of disposal is recognised in profit or loss, along with any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of the investment.
Business combinations The acquisition method is used to account for business combinations.
Consideration is the fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group, including the fair value of any contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition related costs are expensed as incurred.
Identifiable assets acquired, and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed, are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
On an acquisition by acquisition basis, the Group recognises any non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
Goodwill is the excess of consideration transferred, plus any non-controlling interest and the fair value of any previous equity interest in the acquiree, over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
In the event that this excess is negative the difference is recognised directly in profit for the period.
Disposal of subsidiaries When the Group ceases to have control over a subsidiary, any retained interest in the entity is remeasured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, with the change in carrying amount recognised in profit or loss.
The fair value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or financial asset.
In addition, any amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
This may mean that amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss.
4.2 Joint ventures The Group and Ocado Group plc are sole investors in a company MHE JV Co, which owns the plant and equipment at the Dordon Customer Fulfilment Centre.
Each party owns 50% of the equity of MHE JV Co and decisions regarding MHE JV Co require the unanimous consent of both parties.
The Directors have considered the impact of IFRS 11 and determined that the Group continues to jointly control MHE JV Co. 2017 2016 MHE JV Co m m Non-current assets 96 125 Current assets 22 7 Current liabilities 6 7 Net assets 112 125 Groups share of net assets 56 63 Profit 4 4 Groups share of profit 2 2 81 Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Notes to the Group financial statements continued 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 4 Interests in other entities continued 4.3 Investments 2017 2016 m m At start of period 31 31 Fair value adjustments 14 Disposals 45 At end of period 31 On 16 August 2016, the Group disposed of its 10% stake in Fresh Direct Inc, a US internet grocer for cash consideration of 45m, net of 1m of transaction costs.
In line with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, the asset was remeasured to fair value before the sale completed, resulting in a 14m increase in the book value of the investment.
On disposal the 14m revaluation gain was recognised in profit or loss net of 1m of transaction costs.
This profit is one-off in nature and therefore has been excluded from reported underlying earnings see note 1.4.
Following the transaction the undrawn loan facility provided to Fresh Direct Inc ceased.
4.4 Business combinations 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 In the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 there were no business combinations.
52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 On 7 December 2015, Wm Morrison Produce Limited exercised an option to acquire the remaining 49% of the issued share capital of Wm Morrison Bananas Limited from Global Pacific Group, for a cash consideration of 3m.
Due to the existence of the put and call option, the Group had previously treated Wm Morrison Bananas Limited as a 100% subsidiary.
For part of the year the Group was part of a joint venture in respect of The Morrisons Farm at Dumfries House Limited the Farm.
The Group terminated this agreement on 13 November 2015 when Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC acquired the remaining 50% of the issued share capital of the Farm.
On 6 January 2016, the Farm was renamed Neerock Farming Limited.
The Farms results are immaterial to the Group.
4.5 Disposals of businesses 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 In the 52 weeks ended 29 January 2017 there were no disposals of businesses.
52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 On 26 October 2015, the Group disposed of its subsidiary Wm Morrison Convenience Stores Limited and associated assets to MLCG Limited for cash consideration of 20m.
This resulted in a loss on disposal of 34m.
This loss was one-off in nature and was excluded from reported underlying earnings in the 52 weeks ended 31 January 2016 see note 1.4.
Following the sale, the Group continues to guarantee certain leases relating to its former convenience stores.
At 31 January 2016, the Group made an assessment of the likelihood and amount of future rental commitments should these leases revert, and recognised a liability on the balance sheet reflecting the estimated cash outflow.
In the event of lessee default the Group will look to minimise its liability by finding alternative occupiers as soon as possible.
On 29 June 2016, MLCG Limited announced it was entering administration.
The Group has subsequently reassessed the liability it recognised in the 52weeks ended 31 January 2016 and considers this still to be appropriate.
