Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Report on the financial statements Our opinion In our opinion: Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLCs Group financial statements and Company financial statements the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 29 January 2017 and of the Groups profit and cash flows for the 52 week period the period then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
What we have audited The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements the Annual Report, comprise: the consolidated balance sheet as at 29 January 2017: the Company balance sheet as at 29 January 2017: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the period then ended: the consolidated cash flow statement for the period then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: the Company statement of changes in equity for the period then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are crossreferenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and applicable law.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial statements is United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, and applicable law.
Our audit approach Overview Materiality Areas of focus Overall Group materiality: 16.85m Impairment of property.
which represents 5% of underlying Onerous lease provisions and onerous Materiality profit before tax.
Audit scope Commercial income and The Group engagement team conducted promotional funding.
all of our audit work in the UK other than Audit scope Impairment and capitalisation a PwC component audit team that of intangible assets.
undertook a full scope audit of a UK Manufacturing subsidiary.
Areas of focus Pension accounting.
