It is updated with the latest financial information at the PAYMENT METHODS same time as the corporate website.
To discover more, download it free Shareholders can elect to receive their dividends in a number of ways: from the App store.
Cheque: Dividends will automatically be paid to shareholders DOCUMENT VIEWING by cheque, which will be sent by post to the shareholders registered address: Shareholders will have the opportunity to view certain documentation, asoutlined in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, from at least BACS: Dividends can be paid by mandate directly to a UK bank or 15 minutes prior to the meeting, until its conclusion.
The rules of the building society account through the BACS system.
This method of Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan KISP, the Kingfisher Alignment Shares payment reduces the risk of your cheque being intercepted or lost in and Transformation Incentive Plan KASTIP, the proposed Articles of the post.
Shareholders wishing to receive their dividends in this way Association and other documentation referred to in this Annual Report can update their mandate instructions at www.
co. uk can be viewed at the registered office during normal business hours.
orcomplete a dividend mandate form and return it to the Registrar: Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP : The company also offers GROUP COMPANY SECRETARY AND REGISTERED OFFICE shareholders a DRIP, whereby their cash dividend can be used to buy Paul Moore, Kingfisher plc additional shares in the company.
Shareholders can apply online at 3 Sheldon Square, Paddington, London, W2 6PX www.
co. uk or complete a mandate form and return ittothe address shown above: and Telephone: 44 0 20 7372 8008 Global Payments Service: This service, provided by the Registrar Fax: 44 0 20 7644 1001 enables shareholders to have dividend payments paid directly into www.
com their bank account in their chosen local currency.
To view terms and Registered in England and Wales register, please visit www.
Registered Number 01664812 AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS ADRS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The company has a Sponsored Level 1 ADR programme in the United All statements in this Annual Report and Accounts, other than historical States, which trades on the OTCQX Platform.
Each ADR represents facts, may be forward-looking statements.
Such statements are therefore two Kingfisher ordinary shares.
The companys ADR programme is subject to risks, assumptions and uncertainties that could cause actual administered by Citibank, N. A. who were appointed on 1 October 2015. results to differ materially from those expressed or implied because they ADR Investor Contact: relate to future events.
Telephone: 1 877 248 4237 Forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of relevant E-mail: citibank@shareholders-online.
com terminology including the words: believes, estimates, anticipates, ADR Broker Contact: expects, intends, plans, goal, target, aim, may, will, would, could or Telephone: 1 212 723 5435 44 0 20 7500 2030 should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable E-mail: citiadr@citi.
com terminology and include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION Accounts and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or Shareholders who have not yet elected to receive shareholder current expectations and those of our officers, directors and employees documentation in electronic form can sign up by visiting concerning, amongst other things, our results of operations, financial www.
co. uk ecomms and registering their details.
When condition, changes in tax rates, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies registering for electronic communications, shareholders will be sent an andthe businesses we operate.
email each time the company publishes statutory documents, providing a link to the information.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those estimated by the forward-looking statements include, but are Electing for electronic communications does not mean that shareholders not limited to, global economic business conditions, global and regional cannot obtain hard copy documents.
Should shareholders require trade conditions, monetary and interest rate policies, foreign currency a paper copy of any of the companys shareholder documentation, they exchange rates, equity and property prices, the impact of competition, should contact the Registrar at the address stated under the section inflation and deflation, changes to regulations, taxes and legislation, headed Registrar.
changes to consumer saving and spending habits: and our success in CORPORATE WEBSITE managing these factors.
Shareholders are encouraged to visit Kingfishers corporate website Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and kingfisher.
The website includes information about the company, results could differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set its strategy and business performance, latest news and press releases and out in our forward-looking statements.
Reliance should not be placed approach to corporate governance.
The Investor Relations section is a key on any forward-looking statement.
Nothing in this Annual Report and tool for shareholders, with information about Kingfishers share price, Accounts or the Kingfisher website should be construed as a profit financial results, shareholders meetings and dividends.
This section also forecast or an invitation to deal in the securities of Kingfisher.
contains frequently asked questions and copies of the current and past annual reports.
The forward-looking statements contained herein speak only as of the date of this Annual Report and the company undertakes no obligation Kingfisher has an Investor Relations app for the iPad.
The app provides to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of access to the latest share price information, corporate news, financial new information, future events or otherwise, other than in accordance reports, presentations, corporate videos and earnings webcasts both with its legal or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial ConductAuthority.
