Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Responsibilities Statement The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Directors Responsibilities accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Report, Directors Report and the financial statements in and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial accordance with applicable law and regulations.
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as As a listed company within the European Union, the directors regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The directors have elected steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other to prepare the parent company financial statements in irregularities.
accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and UK Accounting Standard FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Responsibilities statement Under company law the directors must not approve the We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a. the Group financial statements, which have been a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial period.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors position and results of the Group: are required to: b. the Strategic Report contained in this annual report select suitable accounting policies and then apply them includes a fair review of the development and performance consistently: of the business and the position of the Company and the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and Group, together with a description of the principal risks prudent: and uncertainties that they face: and present information, including accounting policies, in a c. the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and fair, balanced and understandable and provides the understandable information: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
in respect of the Group financial statements, provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and performance: state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Amanda James financial statements: Lord Wolfson of Group Finance Director Aspley Guise in respect of the parent company financial statements, state Chief Executive whether applicable UK accounting standards have been 23 March 2017 followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The directors confirm that the financial statements comply with the above requirements.
