Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation General Information JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 January 2017 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 10 April 2017.
Basis of Preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 28 January 2017.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement and also put and call options held by the non-controlling interests.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 50 to 51 and pages 57 to 63 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 19.
As 28 January 2017, the Group had net cash balances of 213,600,000 2016: 209,421,000 with available committed borrowing facilities of 215,000,000 2016: 215,000,000 of which nil 2016: nil has been drawn down see note 18.
With a facility of 215,000,000 available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Alternative Performance Measures The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted IFRS.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
Further information can be found in the Glossary on page 176.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following amendments to accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, have been adopted for the first time by the Group in the period with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Annual Improvements to IFRSs - 2012 2014 Cycle Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IAS 27 Equity method in separate financial statements 1 107 07 Financial Statements Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Basis of Preparation continued IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is expected to be applicable after 1 January 2018.
If endorsed, this standard will simplify the classification of financial assets for measurement purposes, but it is not anticipated to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
IFRS 16 Leases is effective for periods that commence on or after 1 January 2019 and will significantly affect the presentation of the Group financial statements with all leases apart from short term leases being recognised as on-balance sheet finance leases with a corresponding liability being the present value of lease payments.
IFRS 16 is also expected to have a material impact on key components within the Consolidated Income Statement as operating lease rental charges will be replaced with depreciation and finance costs.
The Group is currently undertaking an impact assessment of the likely effect on the Groups consolidated results and financial position.
The Group continued to monitor the potential impact of other new standards and interpretations which may be endorsed and require adoption by the Group in future reporting periods.
The Group does not consider that any other standards, amendments or interpretations issued by the IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements.
Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities are considered to be the valuation of the intangible assets recognised as part of the acquisition of Go Outdoors Topco Limited due to the inherent uncertainty involved in the estimation of future sales, discount rates and royalty relief rates, the impairment of goodwill and intangibles due to the inherent uncertainty involved in forecasting and discounting future cash flows and inventory due to the seasonal nature of the Groups retail businesses and the judgement required in assessing the recoverability of its carrying value.
These are discussed further below: I.
Determination of Fair Value of Assets and Liabilities on Acquisition For each acquisition, the Group reviews the appropriateness of the book values of the assets and liabilities acquired, taking into account the application of Group accounting policies, to determine if fair value adjustments are required.
The key judgements involved are the identification and valuation of intangible assets which require the estimation of future cash flows based on the Boards strategic plans for the intangible asset, the useful economic life of the intangible asset and the selection of a suitable discount rate.
Impairment of Goodwill Goodwill arising on acquisition is allocated to groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination from which goodwill arose.
Goodwill is allocated to groups of cash-generating units, being portfolios of stores or individual businesses.
The cash-generating units used to monitor goodwill and test it for impairment are therefore the store portfolios and individual businesses rather than individual stores, as the cash flows of individual stores are not considered to be independent.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use and the fair value less the costs to sell.
The recoverable amounts of these cash-generating units are determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
See Note 12 for further disclosure on impairment of goodwill and review of the key assumptions used.
Impairment of Other Intangible Assets with Definite Lives The Group is required to test whether other intangible assets with a definite useful economic life have suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of brand names is based on an estimation of future sales and the choice of a suitable royalty and discount rate in order to calculate the present value, when this method is deemed the most appropriate.
Alternatively the carrying value of the brand names has been allocated to a cash-generating unit, along with the relevant goodwill and fascia names, and tested in the value-in-use calculation performed for that cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of brand licences is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The use of this method requires the estimation of future cash flows expected to arise from the continuing operation of the cash-generating unit until the licence expiry date and the choice of a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value.
Note 12 provides further disclosure on impairment of other intangible assets with definite lives, including review of the key assumptions used.
Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 1.
Basis of Preparation continued VI.
Impairment of Other Intangible Assets with Indefinite Lives The Group is required to test whether other intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life have suffered any impairment.
The recoverable amount of these assets is determined based on value-in-use calculations.
The determination of an indefinite life is an estimate and could be subject to change if market conditions change.
Note 12 provides further detail of the judgements made by the Board in determining that the lives of acquired fascia names are indefinite and further disclosure on impairment of other intangible assets with indefinite lives, including review of the key assumptions used.
V. Provisions to Write Inventories Down to Net Realisable Value The Group makes provisions for obsolescence, mark downs and shrinkage based on historical experiences, the quality of the current season buy, market trends and management estimates of future events.
The provision requires estimates for shrinkage, the expected future selling price of items and identification of aged and obsolete items.
Other Accounting Estimates and Judgements I. Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment and Non-current Other Assets Property, plant and equipment and non-current other assets are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is not recoverable.
A cashgenerating unit is an individual store.
The recoverable amount is the greater of the fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting period date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists.
An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would be held net of depreciation if no impairment had been realised.
Onerous Property Lease Provisions The Group makes a provision for onerous property leases on specific stores based on the anticipated future cash outflows relating to the contractual lease cost less potential sublease income.
The estimation of sublease income is based on historical experience and knowledge of the retail property market in the area around each specific property.
Significant assumptions and judgements are used in making these estimates and changes in assumptions and future events could cause the value of these provisions to change.
This would include sublet premises becoming vacant, the liquidation of an assignee resulting in a property reverting to the Group or closing an uneconomic store and subletting at below contracted rent.
Value of Put Options Held by Non-controlling Interest The Group recognises put options over non-controlling interests in its subsidiary undertakings as a liability in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at the present value of the estimated exercise price of the put option.
The present value of the non-controlling interests put options are estimated based on expected earnings in Board-approved forecasts and the choice of a suitable discount rate.
Upon initial recognition a corresponding entry is made to other equity.
For subsequent changes on remeasurement of the liability the corresponding entry is made to the Income Statement.
Estimation of Useful Economic Lives of Brand Names The Group amortises brand names over their useful economic life.
In determining the useful economic life of each brand name, the Board considers the market position of the brands acquired, the nature of the market that the brands operate in, typical product life cycles of brands and the useful economic lives of similar assets that are used in comparable ways.
