Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of Preparation General Information JD Sports Fashion Plc the Company is a company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 January 2017 represent those of the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 10 April 2017.
Basis of Preparation European Union law EU LAW IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 requires that the financial statements of the Group are prepared and approved in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the requirements of adopted IFRSs that are endorsed by the EU and effective at 28 January 2017.
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, rounded to the nearest thousand.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified for financial assets and liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through the Consolidated Income Statement and also put and call options held by the non-controlling interests.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with adopted IFRSs requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The judgements, estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.
The accounting policies set out below have unless otherwise stated been applied consistently to all periods present in these financial statements and have been applied consistently by all Group entities.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Executive Chairmans Statement and Financial and Risk Review on pages 50 to 51 and pages 57 to 63 respectively.
In addition, details of financial instruments and exposures to interest rate, foreign currency, credit and liquidity risks are outlined in note 19.
As 28 January 2017, the Group had net cash balances of 213,600,000 2016: 209,421,000 with available committed borrowing facilities of 215,000,000 2016: 215,000,000 of which nil 2016: nil has been drawn down see note 18.
With a facility of 215,000,000 available, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Alternative Performance Measures The Directors measure the performance of the Group based on a range of financial measures, including measures not recognised by EU-adopted IFRS.
These alternative performance measures may not be directly comparable with other companies alternative performance measures and the Directors do not intend these to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measures.
Further information can be found in the Glossary on page 176.
Adoption of New and Revised Standards The following amendments to accounting standards and interpretations, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, have been adopted for the first time by the Group in the period with no significant impact on its consolidated results or financial position: Annual Improvements to IFRSs - 2012 2014 Cycle Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure initiative Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation Amendments to IAS 27 Equity method in separate financial statements 1 107 07 Financial Statements
