Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Other Shareholder Information Registered office Registrars and transfer office Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT Equiniti, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6DA Registered in England and Wales, no.
Calls to this number are Payment of dividend charged at 8p per minute plus network extras.
Lines The recommended final dividend, if approved, will be paid are open 8.30 am to 5.30 pm Monday to Friday.
on 1 August 2017 to holders of ordinary shares registered at close of business on 7 July 2017.
The ordinary shares will Shareholder enquiries trade ex-dividend from 6 July 2017.
The Companys share register is maintained by Equiniti.
Annual General Meeting Please contact them online at www.
co. uk or using the contact details above if you have any enquiries about The AGM will be held at 9.30 am on Thursday 18 May 2017 your NEXT shareholding including the following matters: at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith Way, Grove Park, Leicester, LE19 1SW.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 149 change of name and address: to 156 sets out business to be transacted.
Full access is loss of share certificate, dividend warrant or dividend available to the venue for those with special requirements.
confirmation: Share price data if you receive duplicate sets of Company mailings as a result of an inconsistency in name or address and wish, if Stock Exchange Code: NXT.
2017 2016 The Shareview Portfolio service from Equiniti gives you Share price at financial year end 38.50 69.25 more online information about your NEXT shares and other Market capitalisation 5,662m 10,434m investments.
For direct access to information held for you on Share price movement during year: the share register, including recent balance movements and High mid-market quotation 70.20 80.15 a daily valuation of investments held in your portfolio, visit Low mid-market quotation 38.26 65.25 www.
For shareholders with disabilities Equiniti provides the Discount voucher following: The Company offers a discount voucher to any first named, if requested future communications produced by them will registered shareholder holding a minimum number of 100 be sent in the appropriate format: ordinary shares as at 1 April each year.
The shareholder discount voucher entitles the recipient or their immediate textphone number 44 0 371 384 2255 for shareholders family to a 25% discount against most purchases at any one with hearing difficulties: time of full price NEXT merchandise in NEXT Retail stores.
hearing loop facilities in their buildings for use by visiting There is no limit on the value of goods that can be purchased shareholders.
The voucher expires on 31 October of the year in which it was issued.
It cannot be used in conjunction CREST with any other discount voucher or offer, nor can it be used for the purchase of gift cards, Sale merchandise, electrical The Companys ordinary shares are available for electronic goods, non-NEXT branded goods or purchases from NEXT settlement.
Directory unless ordered through one of our Retail stores.
Shareholders holding shares in nominee or ISA accounts Payments of dividends to are also eligible, but must request the voucher through mandated accounts their nominee or ISA account manager who should email alyson wenlock@next.
Shareholders who do not at present have their dividends paid directly into a bank or building society may wish to do so.
A mandate form is attached to your dividend warrant and tax voucher or is available to download from the NEXT website on www.
co. uk or from Equiniti, telephone 44 0 371 384 2164. n e x t p l c. c o. u k 157 slugline Forward looking statements This Report and Accounts contains forward looking statements which are all matters that are not historical facts, including anticipated financial and operational performance, business prospects and similar matters.
These forward looking statements are identifiable by words such as aim, anticipate, believe, budget, estimate, expect, forecast, intend, plan, project and similar expressions.
These forward looking statements reflect NEXTs current expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those risks described in Risks & Uncertainties on pages 30 to 34: failure by NEXT to predict accurately customer fashion preferences: decline in the demand for merchandise offered by NEXT: competitive influences: changes in level of store traffic or consumer spending habits: effectiveness of NEXTs brand awareness and marketing programmes: general economic conditions or a downturn in the retail industry: the inability of NEXT to successfully implement relocation or expansion of existing stores: insufficient consumer interest in NEXT Directory: acts of war or terrorism worldwide: work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes: and changes in financial or equity markets.
These forward looking statements do not amount to any representation that they will be achieved as they involve risks and uncertainties and relate to events and depend upon circumstances which may or may not occur in the future and there can be no guarantee of future performance.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this document.
NEXT does not undertake any obligation to update publicly or revise forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
This Annual Report is printed on Revive 100% Recycled Silk.
The paper is made from 100% post consumer waste and is fully recyclable and biodegradable.
The mill of manufacture is certified to the ISO 9001 Quality Standard and the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard.
The paper used in this Report and Accounts is carbon neutral certified.
All associated emissions have been independently audited and offset to net zero.
co. uk slugline slugline slugline nextplc.
