Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Group Accounting Policies General information NEXT plc and its subsidiaries the Group is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
The Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and incorporated in England and Wales and domiciled in the UK.
The address of the registered office is Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT.
Basis of preparation The financial statements of NEXT plc and the Group have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments, pension assets and liabilities and share-based payment liabilities which are measured at fair value.
As is common in the retail sector, the Group operates a weekly accounting calendar and this year the financial statements are for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2017 last year 53 weeks to 30 January 2016 which means that some figures may not be directly comparable.
To aid comparability, we have also presented 52 week sales and profit figures for the prior year which are shown in Note 1 of the financial statements.
There have been no changes to our accounting policies this year and the principal policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of NEXT plc the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has control.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant influence but not control.
Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
Under the equity method, the investment is initially recognised at cost, and the carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognise the Groups share of the change in net assets of the associate after the acquisition date.
Foreign currencies The consolidated financial statements are presented in Pounds Sterling, which is the Companys functional and presentation currency.
The Group includes foreign entities whose functional currencies are not Sterling.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of those entities are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date and income and expenses are translated at weighted average rates during the period.
Translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income.
Transactions in currencies other than an entitys functional currency are recorded at the exchange rate on the transaction date, whilst assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences are recognised in the income statement, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow hedges.
Revenue Revenue represents the fair value of amounts receivable for goods and services and is stated net of discounts, value added taxes and returns.
Sales of goods are recognised on delivery.
It is the Groups policy to sell its products to the retail customer with a right to return within 14 days.
Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for such returns at the time of sale.
Revenue is adjusted for the value of expected returns.
The Group does not operate any loyalty programmes.
Revenue from the sale of gift cards is deferred until their redemption.
Directory account interest is accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate.
Where third-party goods are sold on a commission basis, only the commission receivable is included in statutory revenue.
To aid comparability, Total sales are disclosed in the Strategic Report and in Note 1 of the financial statements.
This includes the full customer sales value of commission based sales and interest income, excluding VAT.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 101 slugline Group Accounting Policies Revenue continued Royalty income is received from franchisees and is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Depreciation is charged so as to write down the cost of assets to their estimated residual values over their remaining useful lives on a straight line basis.
Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed at least annually.
Estimated useful lives are summarised as follows: Freehold and long leasehold property 50 years Plant and fittings: Plant and fittings 625 years Leasehold improvements the period of the lease, or useful life if shorter Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the acquisition cost over the Groups interest in the assets and liabilities recognised.
Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment annually or whenever there is an indication of impairment.
For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill acquired is allocated to the cash generating unit CGU that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
The carrying value of the CGU containing the goodwill is compared to the recoverable amount, which is the higher of value in use and the fair value less costs of disposal.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense and is not subsequently reversed.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets relate to the Lipsy brand names and trademarks obtained on acquisition which were initially recognised at fair value.
They are amortised on a straight line basis over their expected useful lives of 10 years.
Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate their carrying value may not be recoverable.
Investments Investments in subsidiary companies Parent Company only and equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured are stated at cost, subject to review for impairment.
Impairment The carrying values of non-financial assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any impairment loss arises, the asset value is adjusted to its estimated recoverable amount and the difference is recognised in the income statement.
Inventories Inventories stocks are valued at the lower of standard cost or net realisable value.
Net realisable value is based on estimated selling prices less further costs to be incurred to disposal.
Where hedge accounting applies, an adjustment is applied such that the cost of stock reflects the hedged exchange rate.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Directory and other receivables Directory customer receivables represent outstanding customer balances less any allowance for impairment which is based on objective evidence and relevant default experience by customer account category.
Other trade receivables are stated at invoice value less any allowance for impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short term deposits, less bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand.
Short term deposits are those with an original maturity of three months or less.
Refer to Note 28 of the financial statements.
Corporate bonds and bank borrowings Corporate bonds and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost and adjusted where hedge accounting applies see interest rate derivatives on page 104.
Accrued interest is included within other creditors and accruals.
Pension arrangements The Group provides pension benefits which include both defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements.
Pension assets are held in separate trustee administered funds and the Group also provides other, unfunded, pension benefits to certain plan members.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit and unfunded arrangements are determined separately for each plan using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date by external actuaries.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation.
A net pension asset is only recognised to the extent that it is expected to be recoverable in the future through a cash refund or a reduction in future payments.
The current service cost of the defined benefit plan is recognised in the income statement as an employee benefit expense.
The net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
The cost of defined contribution schemes is recognised in the income statement as incurred.
The Group has no further payment obligations once the contributions have been paid.
Share-based payment The fair value of employee share options is calculated when they are granted using a Black-Scholes model and the fair value of equity-settled LTIP awards is calculated at grant using a Monte Carlo model.
The resulting cost is charged in the income statement over the vesting period of the option or award, and is regularly reviewed and adjusted for the expected and actual number of options or awards vesting.
The social security contributions payable in connection with the grant of the share options is considered an integral part of the grant itself, and the charge is treated as a cash-settled transaction.
For cash-settled awards, the fair value of the liability is determined at each balance sheet date and the cost is recognised in the income statement over the vesting period.
Dividend income Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 103 slugline Group Accounting Policies Taxation Taxation, comprised of current and deferred tax, is charged or credited to the income statement unless it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In such cases, the related tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be paid, based on tax rates and laws that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method and is calculated using rates of taxation enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date which are expected to apply when the asset or liability is settled.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of investments in subsidiaries and associates where the reversal of any taxable temporary differences can be controlled and are unlikely to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset and there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
Tax provisions are recognised when there is a potential exposure under changes to International tax legislation.
Management uses professional advisers and in-house tax experts to determine the amounts to be provided.
Other financial assets and liabilities: derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting Derivative financial instruments derivatives are used to manage risks arising from changes in foreign currency exchange rates relating to the purchase of overseas sourced products and changes in interest rates relating to the Groups debt.
In accordance with its treasury policy, the Group does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.
Foreign currency and interest rate derivatives are stated at their fair value, being the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate them at the balance sheet date based on prevailing foreign currency and interest rates.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either: a. Hedges of fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or a firm commitment fair value hedge : or b. Hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction cash flow hedge.
The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Interest rate derivatives fair value hedges The Group uses interest rate derivatives to hedge part of the interest rate risk associated with the Companys corporate bonds.
The carrying values of the relevant bonds are adjusted only for changes in fair value attributable to the interest rate risk being hedged.
The adjustment is recognised in the income statement and is offset by movements in the fair value of the derivatives.
Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in IAS 39 Financial instruments: recognition and measurement are recognised in the income statement.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Group Company Foreign currency derivatives cash flow hedges Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised in other comprehensive income and in the fair value reserve, and subsequently transferred to the carrying amount of the hedged item or the income statement.
Realised gains or losses on cash flow hedges are therefore recognised in the income statement in the same period as the hedged item.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument previously recognised in equity is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is then transferred to the income statement.
Changes in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives which are ineffective or do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting in IAS 39 are recognised in the income statement.
Share buybacks The Group has regularly returned surplus cash to shareholders through share buybacks.
Shares purchased for cancellation are deducted from retained earnings at the total consideration paid or payable.
The Company also uses contingent share purchase contracts and irrevocable closed period buyback programmes: the obligation to purchase shares is recognised in full at the inception of the contract, even when that obligation is conditional on the share price.
Any subsequent reduction in the obligation caused by the expiry or termination of a contract is credited back to equity at that time.
Shares held by ESOT The NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT provides for the issue of shares to Group employees, principally under share option schemes.
Shares in the Company held by the ESOT are included in the balance sheet at cost, including any directly attributable incremental costs, as a deduction from equity.
Provisions A provision is recognised where the Group has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation.
Leasing commitments Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight line basis over the period of the lease.
Contingent rentals payable based on store revenues are accrued in line with the related sales.
Premiums payable, rent free periods and capital contributions receivable on entering an operating lease are released to income on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Major sources of estimation uncertainty and judgement The preparation of the financial statements requires judgements, estimations and assumptions to be made that affect the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
The nature of estimation and judgement means that actual outcomes could differ from expectation.
Significant areas of estimation uncertainty and judgement for the Group include: n e x t p l c. c o. u k 105 slugline Group Accounting Policies Major sources of estimation uncertainty and judgement continued Recoverable amount of Directory customer receivables.
The provision for potentially irrecoverable debtors refer to Note 11 is calculated using a combination of internally and externally sourced information, including historical default and collection rates and other credit data.
The judgement applied in the basis for identifying when debtors are potentially impaired has been applied consistently.
A 1% movement in default rate would move the provision by c2.8m.
A 1% movement in the collections rate would change the provision balance by c1.0m.
Net realisable value of inventories The selling prices of inventory are estimated to determine the net realisable value of inventory 451.1m at 28 January 2017.
Historical sales patterns and post year end trading performance are used to determine these.
A 2% change in the volume of inventories going to clearance would impact the net realisable value by c3m.
A 2% change in the level of markdown applied to the selling price would impact the value of inventories going to clearance by c6m.
Defined benefit pension valuation The assumptions applied in determining value of the defined benefit pension obligation refer to Note 18, which is particularly sensitive to small changes in assumptions.
Advice is taken from a qualified actuary to determine appropriate assumptions at each balance sheet date.
The actuarial valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and the long term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
A sensitivity analysis is shown in Note 18.
In determining the appropriate discount rate, management considers the interest rates of high quality UK corporate bonds, with extrapolated maturities corresponding to the expected duration of the obligation.
The mortality rate is based on publicly available mortality tables.
Other areas of estimation and judgement include product returns rates and property provisions.
Product returns rates are based on historical returns rate patterns and are recorded so as to allocate them to the same period in which the original revenue is recorded.
Sensitivities to the assumptions for product returns and property provisions are not expected to result in a material change in the carrying amount.
These provisions are reviewed regularly and updated to reflect managements latest best estimates.
New accounting standards Various new or revised accounting standards have been issued which are not yet effective.
The key ones affecting the Group are described below.
The Group does not intend to early adopt these standards.
a. IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers will be effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards, and is not expected to have a significant impact on the Groups revenues.
The majority of the Groups sales are for standalone products made direct to customers at standard prices either in store or through Directory.
Estimates are already made of anticipated returns and sales awaiting delivery to the customer.
b. IFRS 9 Financial instruments will be effective for the year ending January 2019 onwards, the main impact being the impairment assessment methodology used to value our Directory receivables.
An assessment of the full impact of this standard is in progress.
Process and modelling amendments will be implemented in line with the required effective date.
c. IFRS 16 Leases will be effective for the year ending January 2020 onwards and the impact on the financial statements will be significant to NEXT.
IFRS 16 requires lessees to recognise a lease liability reflecting future lease payments and a right-of-use asset for all lease contracts.
Therefore, the substantial majority of the Groups operating lease commitments some 2bn on an undiscounted basis, as shown in Note 29 would be brought on balance sheet and amortised and depreciated separately.
There will be no impact on cash flows although the presentation of the cash flow statement will change significantly.
Management is currently working on the new processes and systems that will be required to comply with this accounting standard.
