Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Glossary Like-for-like sales Alternative performance measures Growth in sales from stores which have been open for at The Directors use alternative performance measures as they least one full year.
This metric enables the performance of believe these measures provide additional useful information the Group to be measured on a consistent year on year basis.
on the underlying trends, performance and position of the Group.
These measures are used for performance analysis.
Net branch profit The alternative performance measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly comparable with Store Total Sales less cost of sales, payroll, controllable other companies alternative performance measures.
These costs, occupancy costs and depreciation.
Expressed as measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior a percentage of VAT inclusive sales.
It is a measure of to, IFRS measures.
profitability on a store by store level.
Divisional operating profit Net debt Divisional profit before interest and tax, excluding equityComprises cash and cash equivalents, bank loans, corporate settled share option charges recognised under IFRS 2 Sharebonds, fair value hedges of corporate bonds and finance Based Payment and unrealised foreign exchange gains leases.
Refer to Note 28 of the financial statements.
Net and losses on derivatives which do not qualify for hedge debt is a measure of the Groups indebtedness.
Refer to Note 1 of the financial statements.
Net operating margin Earnings Per Share Profit after deducting markdowns and all direct and indirect The level of growth in EPS provides a suitable measure of the trading costs, expressed as a percentage of achieved Total financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns Sales.
Net margin measures whether profitability is changing to shareholders.
Refer to Note 8 of the financial statements.
at a higher or lower rate relative to revenue.
EBITDA Total Sales Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation VAT exclusive full price and markdown sales including the is a measure of cash generation.
2017 EBITDA is calculated as full value of commission based sales and interest income profit before tax of 790m plus interest of 38m, plus depreciation as described and reconciled in Note 1 of the financial and amortisation of 118m.
Total sales is a direct indicator of performance.
Full price sales Underlying like-for-like sales VAT exclusive sales of stock items excluding items sold Like-for-like sales, excluding stores impacted by new openings.
in our mid-season or end-of-season Sale events and our This is a measure of the annual performance of stores taking Clearance operations and includes interest income relating into account the impact of new store openings on existing to those sales.
Full price sales are a direct indicator of the stores.
performance and profitability of the business.
Underlying profit and Earnings Per Share Bought-in gross margin Excludes exceptional items and shown on a consistent 52 Difference between the cost of stock and initial selling price, week basis, where relevant.
Allows for more consistent expressed as a percentage of achieved total VAT exclusive comparison, excluding one-off items.
Bought-in gross margin is a measure of the profit made on the sale of stock at full price.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 147 slugline Glossary Other definitions Directory active customers Mainline store Customers who have placed a Directory order or received a Non-clearance store.
Clearance stores sell stock left over standard account statement in the last 20 weeks.
from the NEXT end-of-season Sale activity.
Capital expenditure Capex Markdown sales The additions to property, plant and equipment.
VAT exclusive sales of stock items in our mid-season or endof-season Sale events and our Clearance operations.
Cash recovery Retail selling space Cash recovery is the cash generated from Markdown sales expressed as a percentage of the VAT inclusive full price Selling space is defined as the trading floor area of a store value of the stock going into the Sale.
which excludes stockroom and administration areas.
Directory cash customers LTIP Directory customers who pay at the time of ordering online Long Term Incentive Plan refer to page 75. or via the Call Centre.
SMP Directory credit customers Share Matching Plan refer to page 75.
Customers who order using a Directory credit account Total Shareholder Returns TSR nextpay account.
TSR has been calculated by reference to the growth in Exceptional items share price combined with the notional investment of gross Exceptional items relate to certain costs or incomes that dividends on ex-dividend dates to create a dividend fraction.
derive from events or transactions that fall within the normal activities of the Group but which, individually or, if of a similar type, in aggregate, are excluded from the Groups underlying performance measures by virtue of their size and nature in order to better reflect managements view of the performance of the Group.
FTE FTE refers to full time equivalent number of employees.
Internal rate of return IRR Internal rate of return is a discount rate that makes the net present value of all cash flows from a particular project equal to zero.
Like-for-like stores Stores that have traded for at least one full year.
