Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Notice of Meeting THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR 14.
To re-elect Lord Wolfson as a director.
To appoint  LLP as auditor of the If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the 2018 you are recommended to seek your own personal financial AGM of the Company and to authorise the directors to advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, set their remuneration.
accountant or other financial advisor authorised under 16.
That the directors be authorised to amend the rules of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. the NEXT Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP to permit new If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your NEXT awards under the LTIP to receive the benefits of dividends plc NEXT and or the Company shares, please send paid by the Company in the period from the grant date this document, together with the accompanying Form of of the awards and the date when these awards vest, as Proxy, as soon as possible to the purchaser or transferee, explained on page 43 of the Directors Report.
or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom 17.
Directors authority to allot shares the sale or transfer was effected, for delivery to the That: purchaser or transferee.
Notice is given that the Annual General Meeting AGM a. the directors be authorised to allot equity securities of NEXT will be held at the Leicester Marriott Hotel, Smith as defined in section 560 of the Companies Act 2006 Way, Grove Park, Leicester, LE19 1SW on Thursday 18 May the 2006 Act in the Company: 2017 at 9.30 am at which the following resolutions will be i. in accordance with article 7 of the Companys proposed, resolutions 1 to 17 as Ordinary Resolutions and articles of association the Articles, up to a 18 to 23 as Special Resolutions.
maximum nominal amount of 4,900,000 as reduced by any equity securities allotted under Further information on these resolutions can be found paragraph a ii below : and in the Directors Report on pages 43 to 46 and in the appendices to this Notice.
Biographies of the directors ii.
up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,800,000 are shown on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report.
as reduced by any equity securities allotted under paragraph a i above in connection with an offer 1.
To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the by way of a rights issue as defined in article 8 b directors and auditor for the year ended 28 January 2017. ii of the Articles : 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy, the full text of which is contained in the Remuneration Report for b. in accordance with article 7 of the Articles this the year ended 28 January 2017 and set out on pages authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next 63 to 72.
AGM of the Company after the passing of this resolution, or, if earlier, at the close of business on 3.
To approve the Remuneration Report excluding the 18 August 2018: and Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 63 to c. all previous unutilised authorities under section 551 72 for the year ended 28 January 2017. of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect save to 4.
To declare a final dividend of 105p per share in respect of the extent that the same are exercisable pursuant to the year ended 28 January 2017. section 551 7 of the 2006 Act by reason of any offer 5.
To re-elect John Barton as a director.
or agreement made prior to the date of this resolution which would or might require shares to be allotted on 6.
To elect Jonathan Bewes as a director.
To re-elect Caroline Goodall as a director.
To re-elect Amanda James as a director.
To re-elect Michael Law as a director.
To elect Michael Roney as a director.
To re-elect Francis Salway as a director.
To re-elect Jane Shields as a director.
To re-elect Dame Dianne Thompson as a director.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 149 slugline Notice of Meeting 18.
General disapplication of pre-emption rights e. other than in respect of authorities granted pursuant to resolution 18, all previous unutilised authorities a. that, subject to resolution 17 being passed, in under sections 570 and 573 of the 2006 Act shall accordance with article 8 of the Articles, the directors cease to have effect save to the extent that they be given power to allot equity securities for cash: are exercisable by reason of any offer or agreement b. the power under paragraph a above other than in made prior to the date of this new resolution which connection with a rights issue, as defined in article would or might require shares to be allotted on or 8 b ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment after that date.
of equity securities having a nominal amount not 20.
On-market purchase of own shares exceeding in aggregate 735,000 representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital: That in accordance with the 2006 Act, the Company be granted general and unconditional authority to make c. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this market purchases as defined in section 693 of the 2006 authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next Act of any of its own ordinary shares on such terms and AGM of the Company after the passing of this in such manner as the directors may determine provided resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on that: 18 August 2018: and a. the authority conferred by this resolution shall be d. all previous unutilised authorities under sections 570 limited to the lesser of 22,043,000 ordinary shares and 573 of the 2006 Act shall cease to have effect of 10p each and no more than 14.99% of the issued save to the extent that they are exercisable by reason ordinary shares outstanding at the date of the AGM, of any offer or agreement made prior to the date of such limit to be reduced by the number of any shares this new resolution which would or might require purchased pursuant to the authority granted at shares to be allotted on or after that date.
Additional disapplication of pre-emption rights b. the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary a. that, subject to resolutions 17 and 18 being passed, shares exclusive of expenses is 10p per ordinary in accordance with article 8 of the Articles, the share: directors be given the power to allot additional equity c. the maximum price which may be paid for each securities for cash: ordinary share exclusive of expenses is an amount b. the power under paragraph a above other than in not more than the higher of: i 105% of the average connection with a rights issue, as defined in article of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of 8 b ii of the Articles shall be limited to the allotment the Company according to the Daily Official List of of equity securities having a nominal amount not the London Stock Exchange for the five business days exceeding in aggregate 735,000 representing 5% of immediately preceding the date of purchase and the issued ordinary share capital: ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share of the c. used only for the purposes of financing or refinancing, Company and the highest current independent bid if the authority is to be used within six months after for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the original transaction a transaction which the the London Stock Exchange Trading System: directors determine to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the d. this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the Statement of Principles on Disapplying Pre-emption next AGM of the Company after the passing of Rights most recently published by the Pre-Emption this resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business Group prior to the date of this notice: 18 August 2018: d. in accordance with article 8 of the Articles this e. the Company may make a contract or contracts to authority shall expire at the conclusion of the next purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby AGM of the Company after the passing of this conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which resolution or, if earlier, at the close of business on will or may be executed wholly or partly after the 18 August 2018: and expiry of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract: and 150 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information f. all existing authorities for the Company to make 22.
Increasing the Companys borrowing powers market purchases of its own ordinary shares are That the Articles be amended by deleting the present revoked, except in relation to the purchase of shares article 67 borrowing powers and replacing it with a new under a contract or contracts concluded before the article 67 in order to increase the directors powers to date of this resolution and which has or have not yet incur borrowings of the Company from the higher of been executed.
1.5bn or an amount equal to two times adjusted total 21.
Off-market purchases of own shares equity to the higher of 2bn, or an amount equal to two times adjusted total equity as defined in the Articles of That, in accordance with section 694 of the 2006 Act, the Company.
For these purposes borrowings do not the proposed programme agreements to be entered include operational leases.
into between the Company and any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank 23.
Notice of general meetings plc and Barclays Bank plc in the form produced to this That, in accordance with the Articles, a general meeting meeting and initialled by the Chairman for the purpose other than an AGM may be called on not less than 14 of identification the Programme Agreements be and clear days notice.
are approved and the Company be and is authorised to enter into the Programme Agreements and all and any forward trades which may be effected or made from time By order of the Board to time under or pursuant to the Programme Agreements for the off-market purchase by the Company of its ordinary shares of 10 pence each, as more fully described in Appendix 1 on pages 152 to 153 of this Notice the authority conferred by this special resolution to expire on whichever is the earlier of the conclusion of the next AGM Seonna Anderson of the Company held after the passing of this resolution Company Secretary of, if earlier, at the close of business on 18 August 2018, Registered Office: Desford Road, Enderby, except in relation to the purchase of ordinary shares Leicester, LE19 4AT under any forward trade effected or made before the 17 April 2017 expiry of such authority and which might be completed wholly or partly after such expiry, and provided that shares purchased pursuant to this authority will reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase under the general authority granted under resolution 20 opposite.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 151 slugline Notice of Meeting Periods.
As in previous years, the Company intends to enter Appendix 1 into new agreements the Programme Agreements, with each of the Banks, under which the Company may although Further information on resolution it is not obliged to enter into contingent forward trades Contingent Forward Trades or CFT from time to time.
21: Off-market purchases of own The terms of a CFT will be agreed between the Company shares and the Bank before it is entered into.
The Company is As noted in the Directors Report on page 44, approval committed to purchase shares under a CFT on the day it is will be sought from shareholders to renew the Companys executed subject to the terms of the Programme Agreement.
authority to make off-market purchases of its shares.
The terms of each CFT will provide for the Company to purchase a fixed number of shares each week over a period By virtue of special resolution 16 passed at the Companys of between 20 to 30 weeks.
The maximum number of shares 2016 AGM, shareholder authority was given to the Company that can be purchased under each CFT is limited to 30,000 to make on-market purchases of shares.
This authority was shares per week.
limited to a maximum of 22,585,000 shares and expires on the earlier of the date of the AGM held in 2017 or Whether or not the Company purchases shares in a particular 19 August 2017.
At the same AGM, authority was granted week during the term of a CFT is dependent upon the to the Company to make off-market purchases of shares Companys share price either not rising to, or above, a level for cancellation under contingent purchase contracts to be the Upper Suspension Level or, if applicable, falling to or entered into with any of Goldman Sachs International, UBS below a level the Lower Suspension Level and together AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and Barclays Bank with the Upper Suspension Level, the Suspension Levels.
plc the Bank s. This authority was limited to a maximum The Suspension Levels and duration are determined by the of 3 million shares and expires on the earlier of the date of Company and are set at the time the CFT is entered into.
the AGM to be held in 2017 or 19 August 2017.
Pursuant to The Upper Suspension Level must be set between 104% and those authorities and up to 22 March 2017, the Company has 110% of the Companys share price at the start of the CFT.
bought back 3,613,121 shares for cancellation, representing If the Company chooses to incorporate a Lower Suspension 2.4% of its issued share capital as at the date of the 2016 Level, it must be set between 80% and 95% of the price at the AGM, at a total cost of 187.6m.
No shares were bought start of the CFT.
The inclusion of a Lower Suspension Level back under contingent purchase contracts.
would help mitigate the Companys financial commitment under a CFT if its share price was to fall below this level after Under sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Act, the Company the CFT had been executed.
If the Lower Suspension Level is is not permitted to make off-market purchases or contingent not included, the level of discount to the market share price purchases of its shares unless it obtains advance shareholder would be higher.
approval to the proposed contract terms.
Furthermore, the Market Abuse Regulations MAR limit the Companys The price at which the Company may purchase shares during ability to purchase its shares at a time when any director is the term of a CFT the Forward Price shall also be fixed at in receipt of unpublished price sensitive information about the start of the CFT.
The Forward Price will be determined the Company.
Accordingly, no purchases of shares would by the Bank with reference to the volume weighted average normally be made in periods when the directors might be in price for shares traded in NEXT on the day the CFT is entered receipt of unpublished price sensitive information Closed into.
The Forward Price is subject to a maximum of 99% of Periods.
The Company typically follows the definition the share price at the start of the contract and a minimum of of Closed Period in Article 19 11 of MAR which includes 10 pence the par value of an ordinary share.
The minimum 30 days before the announcement of its interim results in and maximum amount of time between entering a CFT and September and full year results in March each year.
In the shares being purchased is 5 days and 30 weeks respectively.
absence of a Programme Agreement as defined below, The Company will announce the details of each CFT on the these Closed Periods inevitably reduce the number of shares day it is entered into and any subsequent termination via the the Company is able to purchase.
UK Listing Authoritys Regulatory News Service.
This structure would allow the Company to purchase shares at a discount In order to achieve maximum flexibility in its share purchase to the market price as at the time each CFT commences, activities, the Company is able to enter into irrevocable for so long as the Suspension Levels are not reached, without and non-discretionary programmes to allow it to buy shares breaching the Listing Rules.
If any Suspension Level is reached, during Closed Periods.
Another method of providing the CFT would terminate automatically at that time and no flexibility and reducing the cost, is for the Company to enter further shares would be purchased under that contract.
into contingent forward purchase contracts outside of Closed 152 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Under the provisions of sections 693 and 694 of the 2006 Shares purchased under the Programme Agreements will Act, the Programme Agreements and Contingent Forward reduce the number of shares that the Company may purchase Trades are contingent purchase contracts to purchase shares under any authority granted at the AGM on 18 May 2017 by the Company off-market.
Accordingly resolution 21, which for on-market purchases.
No shares will be purchased under will be proposed as a special resolution, seeks shareholder that authority on the same day that a CFT is entered into.
approval to the terms of the Programme Agreements to The authority granted to the Company under this resolution be entered into between the Company and each of the will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company Banks.
The Programme Agreements will have a duration held in 2018 or on 18 August 2018, whichever is the earlier, of the shorter of the period to the date of the next AGM unless such authority is renewed prior to that time except to be held in 2018 or 18 August 2018 and will incorporate in relation to the purchase of shares under any CFT effected the terms of an ISDA Master Agreement and Schedule.
The before the expiry of such authority and which might be Programme Agreements will be entered into and each CFT completed wholly or partly after such expiry.
The purchase will be affected outside a Closed Period but shares may be of shares under the Programme Agreements will always purchased during a Closed Period by the Company.
be physically settled by delivery of shares to the Company except in the case of certain events of default or termination Should shareholder approval be granted, any number of CFT events.
may be affected with the Banks at any time, provided that: A copy of each of the Programme Agreements will be the total maximum number of shares which the Company available at the AGM on 18 May 2017.
Copies will also be is permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would available for inspection at the Companys registered office be 3 million, representing circa 2% of its issued share at Desford Road, Enderby, Leicester, LE19 4AT and at the capital at 22 March 2017: offices of Slaughter and May at One Bunhill Row, London, the total cost of shares that the Company would be EC1Y 8YY during usual business hours until the date of the permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority may not AGM and at the AGM itself.
exceed 200m including costs : The total number of employee share awards and share options the Forward Price may not exceed the higher of: to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2017 was 5,370,981.
This represents 3.7% of the issued share capital i 105 per cent of the average of the middle market at that date.
If the Company were to buy back the maximum price of a share according to the Daily Official List of number of shares permitted pursuant to both the existing the London Stock Exchange for the five business days authority for off-market purchases granted at the 2016 AGM immediately preceding the day on which the share is which will expire at the 2017 AGM and the authority sought purchased: and by this special resolution, then the total number of options ii an amount equal to the higher of the price of the to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2017 would last independent trade of an ordinary share of the represent 3.8% of the reduced issued share capital.
Company and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System: the Forward Price will be no more than 99% of the share price at the time the CFT was effected: the minimum price that can be paid for any share is 10p: and only one CFT will be entered into on any particular day.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 153 slugline ANNUAL REPORT AND A ACCOUNTS JANU UARY 2017 Notice of Meeting Notic ce of M Meeting Appe endix 2: Appendix 2: Statement of Circumstances Statem ment of Circumstances Meeting formalities and voting Meeti ing form malities a and votin ng Attending the Annual General Meeting Attend ding the A Annual G General M Meeting To be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM and in accordance with the Articles and pursuant to Regulation 41 of the To be ent titled to attend and vote at the e AGM and in n accordance w with the Article es and pursuantt to Regulation n 41 of the Uncertific cated Securities Regulations 20 001 and for the e purposes of d determining the number of vote es shareholders s may cast, Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and for the purposes of determining the number of votes shareholders may cast, shareholde ers must be reg gistered in the r register of mem mbers of the Com mpany as at 6p pm on 16 May 2 2017 or, if the meeting is shareholders must be registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00 pm on 16 May 2017 or, if the meeting adjourned d, shareholders must be entere ed on the Com mpanys register r of members a at 6pm on the day two days before the is adjourned, shareholders must be entered on the Companys register of members at 6.00 pm on the day two days before adjourned d meeting.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The total number of the Companys issued share capital on rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised 22 March 2017, which is the latest practicable date before by registered members of the Company.
Nominated persons the publication of this Notice, is 147,056,562 ordinary shares.
are reminded that they should contact the registered holder of their shares and not the Company on matters relating to All of the ordinary shares carry one vote each and there are no shares held in treasury.
On a vote by a show of hands their investments in the Company.
every member who is present has one vote and every proxy In the case of joint holders, where more than one of the joint present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled holders purports to appoint a proxy, only the appointment to vote has one vote.
On a poll vote every member who is submitted by the most senior holder will be accepted, the present in person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary senior holder being the first named of the joint holders to share they hold.
appear in the Companys share register.
In line with best practice, all resolutions will be put to poll A member who appoints as their proxy someone other than votes.
The directors believe a poll is more representative of the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the proxy shareholders voting intentions because shareholders votes attends the meeting and is aware of the voting intention of are counted according to the number of shares held and all the member.
If no voting instruction is given, the proxy has votes tendered are taken into account.
The procedures for discretion on whether and how to vote.
the poll votes will be explained at the AGM.
A person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person In respect of resolution 21 on off-market share purchase nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to enjoy contracts, the 2006 Act provides that this resolution will not information rights a Nominated Person may, under an be effective if any member of the Company holding shares to agreement between them and the shareholder by whom which it relates i. e. those which may be purchased pursuant they were nominated, have a right to be appointed or to to the Programme Agreements exercised the voting rights have someone else appointed as a proxy for the AGM.
carried by any of those shares in voting on the resolution and If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment the resolution would not have been passed if they had not right or does not wish to exercise it, they may, under any done so.
Therefore, NEXT intends to disregard any poll votes such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the which are cast in favour of resolution 21 attaching to 3 million shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
shares being the total maximum number of shares which the If a member submits more than one valid proxy appointment, Company is permitted to purchase pursuant to the Programme Agreements from both the total number of votes cast in favour the appointment received last before the latest time for the of this resolution and the total number of votes cast.
receipt of proxies will take precedence.
The results of the AGM will be posted on the Companys Electronic voting website www.
co. uk after the meeting and notified As an alternative to completing and returning a form of to the UK Listing Authority.
proxy, you may submit your proxy electronically by accessing Voting and proxies our registrars website www.
You will require your unique Voting ID, Task ID and Shareholder Reference Whether or not you intend to attend the AGM in person, you Number as printed on the proxy card.
The use by members are requested to complete and return the form of proxy to of the electronic proxy appointment service will be governed Equiniti, to arrive as soon as possible but in any event not by the terms and conditions of use which appear on the later than 9.30 am on 16 May 2017 or 48 hours before any website.
Electronic proxies must be completed and lodged adjourned meeting.
The completion and return of the form in accordance with the instructions on the website by no later of proxy will not prevent you from attending and voting at than 9.30 am on 16 May 2017. the AGM if you so wish.
CREST voting facility A shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at the AGM may appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote Those shareholders who hold shares through CREST may instead of him her, provided that each proxy is appointed to choose to appoint a proxy or proxies using CREST for the exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held AGM to be held on 18 May 2017 and any adjournment s by that shareholder.
A proxy need not also be a shareholder thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST of the Company and may vote on any other business which Manual.
CREST personal members or other CREST may properly come before the meeting.
sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their The statements of the rights of members in relation to the CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able appointment of proxies in the above paragraph and in the to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
paragraphs headed Electronic Voting and CREST voting facility below do not apply to a Nominated Person.
The n e x t p l c. c o. u k 155 slugline Notice of Meeting In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using already been given on a website in the form of an answer the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST to a question, or iii it is undesirable in the interests of the message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly Company or the good order of the AGM that the question authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland be answered.
Limiteds specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Documents available for inspection Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it constitutes Copies of the following documents will be available for the appointment of a proxy or is an amendment to the inspection at the Companys registered office during usual instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in business hours and will be available for 15 minutes prior order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the to and for the duration of the AGM.
Copies will also be issuers agent ID RA19 by the latest time s for receipt of available for inspection at the offices of Slaughter and May proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY during usual business this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time hours until the close of the AGM: as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent Terms of appointment of the non-executive directors is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the Rules of the NEXT Long Term Incentive Plan, pursuant to manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time any change of resolution 16 instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be communicated to the appointee through other means.
The Programme Agreements pursuant to resolution 21 CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors Articles that reflect the change proposed in resolution 22 or voting service providers should note that Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available special procedures Company website in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to A full copy of the Annual Report which includes this Notice, the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility together with those for prior years, and other information of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST required by section 311A of the 2006 Act can be found on member is a CREST personal member or sponsored the NEXT plc website at www.
member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to Under section 527 of the 2006 Act members meeting the procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s threshold requirements set out in that section have the take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a right to require the Company to publish on a website a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by statement setting out any matter relating to: i the audit of any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, the Companys accounts including the auditors report and where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service the conduct of the audit that are to be laid before the AGM: provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of or ii any circumstance connected with an auditor of the the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the Company ceasing to hold office since the previous meeting CREST system and timings.
The CREST Manual is available at at which annual accounts and reports were laid in accordance www.
The Company may not The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction require the members requesting such website publication in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the to pay its expenses in complying with sections 527 or 528 Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001. of the 2006 Act, and it must forward the statement to the Companys auditor not later than the time when it makes the Corporate representatives statement available on the website.
The business which may be dealt with at the AGM includes any statement that the Any corporation which is a member can appoint one or more Company has been required under section 527 of the 2006 corporate representatives who may exercise on its behalf all Act to publish on its website.
of its powers as a member provided that they do not do so in relation to the same shares.
You may not use any electronic address provided in this Notice of Meeting to communicate with the Company for Right to ask questions any purposes other than those expressly stated.
Any shareholder attending the meeting has the right to ask questions.
The Company must answer any such question relating to the business being dealt with at the AGM but no such answer need be given if i to do so would interfere unduly with the preparation for the meeting or involve the disclosure of confidential information, ii the answer has 156 nextplc.
