Redefine International P. L. C. 152 Annual Report 2017 Other information Glossary Annualised gross rental income EUR or Euro NCI Annualised gross rent generated by the asset at Euro, the lawful common currency of participating Noncontrolling interest the balance sheet date, which is made up of the member states of the European Monetary Union Net debt contracted rent, including units that are in rentfree GBP, Pound or Sterling Total nominal value of bank borrowings less cash periods, and estimates of turnover rent Great British Pound, the legal currency of the UK and cash equivalents AUK GPR RCF Aegon UK property portfolio Global Property Research Revolving Credit Facility Aviva GRESB Redefine International, RDI, RI PLC, the Aviva Commercial Finance Limited Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark Company or the Group Board Redefine International P. L. C. and, when taken IASB The Board of Directors of Redefine International together with all its subsidiaries and Group International Accounting Standards Board P. L. C. undertakings, collectively referred to as the Group IFRS Brexit RedefineBDL or RBDL International Financial Reporting Standards Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty gives any European RedefineBDL Hotel Group Limited Union member the right to withdraw from the IHL Redefine Properties or RPL EU and outlines the procedure for doing so.
On International Hotel Properties Limited Redefine Properties Limited, a company listed on the 29March 2017, Article 50 was triggered by the UK formerly:International Hotel Group Limited JSE, and a 29.52 per cent shareholder of the Company Government following the vote to leave in June 2016 the EU referendum which is colloquially referred Indexed leases RECML to as Brexit, and must be concluded by March 2019 A lease with rent review provisions which are Redefine Earls Court Management Limited dependent upon calculations with reference to an BVI index such as the consumer price index or the retail Reversionary yield British Virgin Islands price index The anticipated yield to which the initial yield will rise or fall once the rent reaches the ERV CPI IPD Consumer Price Index Investment Property Databank RevPar Revenue per available room Discontinued Company adjustments IRR Items previously added back to arrive at Internal rate of return RICS distributable earnings, for example, debt issue Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors costsand sharebased payment charges JSE JSE Limited, licensed as an exchange and a public RIHL EBITDA company incorporated under the laws of South Redefine International Holdings Limited Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation Africa and the operator of the Johannesburg andAmortisation RIMH StockExchange Redefine International Management EPRA KPI HoldingsLimited European Public Real Estate Association Key Performance Indicators RHHL EPRA earnings Lease incentives Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited Earnings from operational activities as defined by Any incentives offered to occupiers to enter into EPRAs Best Practice guidelines RHML a lease.
Typically, the incentive will be an initial Redefine Hotel Management Limited rentfree period, or a cash contribution to fit out or EPRA NAV similar costs European Public Real Estate Association Net SA AssetValue South Africa LfL Likeforlike EPRA NIY SAICA European Public Real Estate Association Net Initial South African Institute of Chartered Accountants Likeforlike income Yield.
The annualised rental income based on the Income generated by assets which were held by the UK cash rents passing at the balance sheet date, less Group throughout both the current and comparable United Kingdom nonrecoverable property operating expenses, periods for which there has been no significant divided by the gross market value of the property development which materially impacts upon UKREIT income and used to illustrate change in comparable A UK Real Estate Investment Trust.
A REIT must be a EPRA NNNAV incomevalues publicly quoted company with at least threequarters European Public Real Estate Association Triple Net of its profits and assets derived from a qualifying Asset Value Likeforlike property property rental business.
Income and capital gains Property which has been held at both the current EPRA occupancy from the property rental business are exempt and comparative balance sheet dates for which Occupancy expressed as a percentage of ERV, from tax but the REIT is required to distribute at there has been no significant development and used representing a measure of let space least 90 per cent of those profits to shareholders.
to illustrate change in comparable capital values Tax is payable on nonqualifying activities of the EPRA toppedup initial yield residualbusiness LSE Net initial yield adjusted for the expiration of The London Stock Exchange rentfree periods or other incentives Underlying earnings rebased The calculation of underlying earnings was revised Loantovalue or LTV EPS during the year ended 31 August 2017 to align to The ratio of net debt divided by the market value of Earnings per share the EPRA earnings metric as adjusted for foreign investment property.
Calculated on a proportionate exchange gains and debt fair value accretion ERV share of value basis chargesonly The estimated market rental value of lettable space LuxSE which could reasonably be expected to be obtained WAULT The Luxembourg Stock Exchange on a new letting or rent review Weighted average unexpired lease term NAV EU Net Asset Value European Union Offices and advisers Registered office Legal adviser to Isle of Man law Property valuers Merchants House Simcocks Advocates Limited Savills Advisory Services Limited 24 North Quay Ridgeway House 33 Margaret Street Douglas Ridgeway Street London W1G 0JD Isle of Man IM1 4LE Douglas Savills Advisory Services GmbH Isle of Man IM99 1PY Corporate head office Taunusanlage 19 33 Regent Street Legal adviser to English law 60325 Frankfurt London SW1Y 4NE Germany CMS Cameron McKenna Nabarro Olswang LLP Isle of Man administrator Strutt and Parker Registration number OC310335 IQE Limited 13 Hill Street 78 Cannon Street, Merchants House London W1J 5LQ London EC4N 6AF 24 North Quay BNP Paribas Real Estate Jersey Limited Douglas UK transfer secretaries BNP Paribas House Isle of Man IM1 4LE Link Asset Services Anley Street The Registry UK joint financial advisers and Jersey JE2 3QE 34 Beckenham Road corporate brokers Beckenham Peel Hunt LLP Kent BR3 4TU Moor House 120 London Wall South African transfer secretaries London EC2Y 5ET Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited J. P. Morgan Cazenove Rosebank Towers 25 Bank Street 15 Biermann Avenue Canary Wharf Rosebank London E14 5JP Johannesburg 2196 South African corporate adviser South Africa PO Box 61051, Marshaltown, 2107 Java Capital Proprietary Limited 6A Sandown Valley Crescent Auditor Sandton 2196 KPMG Johannesburg 1 Harbourmaster Place South Africa IFSC PO Box 2087, Parklands, 2121 Dublin 1 JSE sponsor Ireland Java Capital Trustees and Sponsors Proprietary Limited 6A Sandown Valley Crescent Sandton 2196 Johannesburg South Africa PO Box 2087, Parklands, 2121 Designed and produced by www.
com Printed on Splendorgel Extra White, an FSC mixed sources paper manufactured using pulp from well managed forests at a mill accredited with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental standards.
Printed by CPI Colour, who are ISO 14001 certified, CarbonNeutral and FSC chain of custody certified.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
RDI REIT P. L. C. formerly Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 Visit us online www.
com RDI REIT @rdireit RDI REIT P. L. C. info@rdireit.
