Redefine International P. L. C. 68 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Board operations All Board meetings and Board calls during 2017 were attended by all the Directors.
Additional matters were approved by a Committee of theBoardwhich had the necessary delegated authority or independence levels to oversee such matters.
Board meeting agendas 2017 meetings schedule Management formally report to the Board Meetings Attendance on the following standard agenda items, providing information seven days in advance Four scheduled quarterly Board meetings All Directors attended all the meetings ofBoard meetings: Four scheduled quarterly conference calls to All Directors participated in all the calls Management report: provide operational updates to Directors report from the CEO: acquisitions and investments: Eight ad hoc Board meetings responding to Attendance at ad hoc meetings is subject to businessneeds authority levels requiring either a fullBoard or a disposals: committee of three Directors, one of which must portfolio report: and be independent special projects.
Two meetings of independent Directors Attended only by independent Directors Finance and tax: financial results: For related party transactions, any Scheme of Arrangement to acquire banking facilities and derivatives: and Director with a conflict of interest may the minority shareholdings in treasury and foreign currency exposure.
be askedto leave the meeting whilst the International Hotel Properties Limited Shareholder and investor relations: matter is discussed and opinion letters IHL, and additional IHL shares from shareholder information and trading from the Companys sponsor, ascertaining RedefineProperties.
statistics: as to whether the transaction is fair and Redefine International and Redefine reasonable, are circulated for the independent Properties are both shareholders of IHL reports on shareholders views: and Directors consideration.
All related party and Mike Watters is a Director of IHL and shareholder communications.
transactions will be reviewed and approved by Redefine International.
Marketing: a committee comprising solely of independent A Fair and Reasonable letter was obtained report from Head of Marketing.
Non-executive Directors to ensure that the from the Companys UK sponsors and from matter is given a measure of independent Administrative matters: Mazars, and the transaction was approved oversight.
committee reports: by an Independent Committee of the Board Related Party transactions during the and by IHL shareholders at an EGM held corporate governance updates: and yearwere: on15September 2017. corporate governance administrative Acquisition of the controlling interest in the matters.
Leopard Portfolio from Redefine Properties Limited.
Redefine Properties is a major shareholder of the Company.
A Fair and Reasonable letter was obtained from the Companys UK sponsors and the transaction was approved by an Independent Committee of the Board andby shareholders at an EGM held on 25April 2017.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 69 Scheduled Board meetings update calls Ad hoc committee meetings Corporate calendar items Nonstandard ad hoc Matters approved matters discussed September Board update call Board meeting October October Year end results and associated items Dividend rebase on EPRA earnings Financial results for year ended 31 August 2016 Review and approval of budget Foreign exchange rates Confirmation of Directors independence Capital Markets Day Evaluation of Board November Compliance Issue of scrip dividend shares December December Board update call Annual Report VBG sale Board meeting January Review of all policies Strategy Stress test and gearing sensitivities Capital Markets Day March March Board update call Sale of the Observatory, Chatham Board meeting April April Interim results and associated items Effects of dividend rebase Shareholder Circular for the 1 Leopard Portfolio acquisition Review of matters reserved for the Board Maximising earnings UK Shopping Centre facility agreement Interim Results June June Board update call Issue of scrip dividend shares Board meeting July Review of Group strategy, objectives and Property cladding assessment corporate structure Manchester attacks Review of internal controls and risk Approval of Audit and Risk Committees management Terms of Reference Review of financial strategy Review of marketing strategy August 1 IHL Scheme of Arrangement 1 Independent committee of the Board.
