Notes to the Company financial statements Year ended 31 July 2017 Cash at bank and in-hand 1 Corporate information Cash at bank and in-hand includes cash in-hand and deposits held Ferguson plc the Company was incorporated and registered in with banks which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
Jersey on 28 September 2010 under the Jersey Companies Law as Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the apubliccompany limited by shares under the name Ferguson plc with balance sheet to the extent there is no right of offset or intention to net registered number 106605.
The principal legislation under which the settle with cash balances.
Company operates is the Companies Jersey Law 1991, as amended, and regulations made thereunder.
The address of its registered Share capital officeis 26 New Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3RA, Channel Islands.
The Company has one class of shares, ordinary shares, which are It isheadquartered in Switzerland.
Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the The principal activity of the Company is to act as the ultimate holding proceeds, net of tax.
company of the Ferguson Group of companies.
Where the Company or one of the Companys trusts purchases the The Company changed its name from Wolseley plc to Ferguson plc Companys equity share capital, the consideration paid, including any on31 July 2017. directly attributable incremental costs net of tax, is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, 2 Company accounting policies reissued or disposed of.
Where such shares are subsequently disposed Basis of accounting or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable The Company meets the denition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 incremental transaction costs and the related tax effects, is included in Financial Reporting Standard 100 issued by the Financial Reporting equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared Share-based payments in accordance with FRS 101 Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the Companys Disclosure Framework as issued by the FRC.
executive share option, long term incentive and share purchase and As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the ordinary share plans.
The Company recognises a compensation cost disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to sharein respect of these plans that is based on the fair value of the awards, based payments, financial instruments, capital management, presentation measured using Binomial and Monte Carlo valuation methodologies.
of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a For equity-settled plans, the fair value is determined at the date of grant cash ow statement, standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and including the impact of non-vesting conditions such as requirement related party transactions.
for employees to save and is not subsequently remeasured unless the conditions on which the award was granted are modied.
Generally, the The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis compensation cost is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting and on the going concern basis.
Adjustments are made to reect expected and actual forfeitures Note 4 Operating profit on page 95, note 9 Dividends on page 98, during the vesting period due to thefailure to satisfy service conditions note27 Share capital on page 113, note 28 Share-based payments orachieve non-market performance conditions.
on page 114 and note 36 Post-balance sheet events on page 119 of Dividends payable the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements form part of these financial statements.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the period in which the dividends are paid or approved by Foreign currencies the shareholders of the Company.
The financial statements are presented in sterling which was the functional Tax currency of the Company at 31 July 2017.
Ferguson plc is taxed as a holding company in Switzerland so no tax is The cost of the Companys investments in overseas subsidiary due at cantonal or communal level.
The tax charge is therefore made undertakings is translated into sterling at the rate ruling at the date up of federal tax and capital tax.
Federal tax is levied on profits in the of investment.
year subject to any participation exemption for qualifying dividends from Foreign currency transactions entered into during the year are subsidiaries.
Capital tax is based on the value of the Companys assets, translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling on the dates of primarily its investment in Wolseley Limited and Ferguson Holdings the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign Switzerland AG.
currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
All currency translation differences are charged or credited 3 Fixed asset investments toretained earnings.
Cost m Investments in subsidiaries At 1 August 2016 7,945 Fixed asset investments are recorded at cost less provision for impairment.
The Company assesses at each balance sheet date whether there Additions 364 is objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments At 31 July 2017 8,309 is impaired.
All of the above investments are in unlisted shares.
The Directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by the recoverable amount of their underlying assets.
136 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 3 Fixed asset investments continued 10 Share-based payments Details of share awards granted by Group companies to employees, and The Companys direct holdings in subsidiary undertakings as at 31 July that remain outstanding over the Companys shares are set out in note 2017 were as follows: 28 on page 114 to the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
Percentage The net profit and loss charge to the Company for equity-settled shareCountry of registration of ordinary Company and operation Principal activity shares held based payments was nil 2016: nil.
The Company charged the full amount incurred for equity-settled share-based payments of 22 million Wolseley Limited England and Wales Investment 100% 2016: 20 million to its subsidiary undertakings.
Ferguson fide Puerto Commonwealth of Distributor of 100% Rico, Inc. Puerto Rico industrial products 11 Contingent liabilities Ferguson Holdings Switzerland Investment 100% Switzerland AG Provision is made for the Directors best estimate of known claims and legal actions in progress.
The Company takes legal advice as tothe Details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company, including those likelihood of success of claims and actions and no provision is made where that are held indirectly, are listed on pages 140 and 141 of the Ferguson plc the Directors consider, based on that advice, that the action is unlikely to Annual Report.
succeed or a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation cannot be made.
4 Debtors: amounts falling due within oneyear In addition, the Company has given certain banks and lenders authority 2017 2016 to transfer at any time any sum outstanding to its credit against or towards m m satisfaction of its liability to those banks of certain subsidiary undertakings.
Other debtors 1 2 The Company has also given indemnities and warranties to the purchasers of businesses from the Company and certain Group companies in respect Total 1 2 of which no material liabilities are expected to arise.
The fair value of amounts included in debtors approximates to book value.
The Company acts as a guarantor for the Groups UK dened benefit pension plan, which is disclosed in note 26 on pages 110 to 112 to the 5 Creditors: amounts falling due within oneyear Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
2017 2016 m m 12 Employees, employee costs and Bank overdrafts 787 auditorsremuneration Other creditors 1 3 The average number of employees of the Company in the year ended Amounts owed to Group companies 647 31 July 2017 was one 2016: one.
Other employees of Group companies were seconded or assigned to the Company in the period in order to Total 788 650 full their duties or to carry out the work of the Company.
Each of the Non Executive Directors of the Company has an appointment letter with the The fair value of amounts included in creditors approximates to book Company.
The Executive Directors and certain other senior managers value.
Bank overdrafts are interest bearing, carrying an interest rate of the Group have assignment letters in place with the Company.
of 2.0per cent and are payable on demand.
Amounts owed to Group Total employment costs of the Company for the period, including companies in 2016 were interest bearing, carrying an interest rate of Non Executive Directors and seconded employees, were 2 million 1.2 per cent and were payable on demand.
6 Share capital Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companys financial Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 27 on page 113 statements are set out in note 4 on page 95 to the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
tothe Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
7 Share premium account 13 Dividends Details of new share capital subscribed are set out in note 27 on page 113 Details of the Companys dividends are set out in note 9 on page 98 tothe to the Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
8 Treasury shares 14 Related party transactions Details on Treasury shares are set out in note 27 on page 113 to the The Company is exempt under the terms of FRS 101 from disclosing Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
related party transactions with entities that are 100 per cent owned byFerguson plc.
9 Own shares reserve 15 Post-balance sheet events During the year, the Company contributed 6 million 2016: 11 million ofcash to its USA Employee benefit Trust and nil 2016: 3 million to Details of post-balance sheet events are given in note 36 on page 119 ofthe Ferguson plc consolidated financial statements.
its Jersey Employee benefit Trust to purchase shares.
The Treasury shares held by both of these Trusts have been consolidated within the Companys balance sheet as at 31 July 2017 and amount to 48 million 2016: 57 million.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137
