Leadership and effectiveness Board decision-making Scheduled Board and Committee meetings The Board has a strong culture of open debate.
All Directors are actively 2016 17attendance eligibility encouraged to challenge existing assumptions and to raise challenging 1 Board Committees questions.
Certain strategic decisions and authorities of the Company Audit Rem Nom are reserved as matters for the Board with other matters, responsibilities Chairman and authorities delegated to its Committees as detailed in the Ferguson 2 Gareth Davis 6 6 4 4 governance structure on page 56.
A formal schedule of matters reserved 3 Executive Directors for the Board is reviewed annually in July, a summary of which can be 4 John Martin 6 6 found at www.
com together with the terms of reference 5 Frank Roach 6 6 ofeach of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
6 Mike Powell 1 1 Individual roles Non Executive Directors The effective working of the Board is crucial to the long-term prospects Tessa Bamford 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 4 and strategic aims of the Company.
This is achieved through strong and John Daly 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 4 open working relationships between the Directors and, in particular, 7 Pilar Lpez 6 6 4 4 5 6 3 4 theChairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director, 8 Alan Murray 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 4 whose roles are agreed and set out in writing.
A short summary of their 9 Darren Shapland 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 4 roles and division of responsibilities is set out below.
10 Nadia Shouraboura 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 Jacky Simmonds 6 6 4 4 6 6 4 4 Chairman Overall leadership and governance of the Gareth Davis Board includinginduction, development and The Major Announcements Committee meets as required and was not required to meet during the year.
The members of that Committee are detailed on pages 52 and 53.  1.
In addition to the scheduled meetings two unscheduled Board meetings were convened at short notice to deal with matters that needed to be considered before the next Provides the Board with insight into the views of the scheduled meeting.
These unscheduled meetings were held in February and March 2017.
Companys major shareholders The February meeting was attended by John Martin and Frank Roach and the March meeting was attended by Alan Murray, John Martin and Frank Roach.
Promotes a culture of challenge and debate at Board 2.
Chair of the Nominations Committee.
During the year, Ian Meakins served as Group Chief Executive and a member of the andCommittee meetings Boarduntil his retirement on 31 August 2016.
No Board or Committee meetings were heldduring this period.
Group Chief Effective leadership of the Company, implementing 4.
Group Chief Financial Officer until 31 August 2016.
Appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2016.
Executive strategy and objectives agreed by the Board 5.
Chief Executive Officer, USA until he retired from the Board on 31 July 2017.
Appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 June 2017.
Management and development of the Groups 7.
Ms Lpez was unable to attend the July Remuneration and Nominations Committee operationsand business models meetings due to an unavoidable scheduling conict.
Working closely with the Group Chief Financial Officer 9.
Chair of the Audit Committee.
Appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 July 2017. toensure prudent financial controls 11.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Developing and implementing policies integral to How the Board operates improvingthe business, including in relation to health andsafety and sustainability Board and Committee meetings The Company is registered in Jersey and is tax resident in Switzerland.
Senior Available to investors and shareholders, where During the year, all meetings of the Board, Committees of the Board and Independent communications through the Chairman or Executive all other meetings requiring decisions of a strategic or substantive nature Director Directors may not seem appropriate were held outside the UK.
Alan Murray A sounding board for the Chairman and an intermediary Each Director is required to attend all meetings of the Board and forthe other Directors when necessary Committees of which they are a member.
In addition, senior management Chairs the Board in the absence of the Chairman from across the Group and advisers attend some of the meetings for the discussion of specic items in greater depth.
Holds informal discussion with the Non Executive Directors, withand without the presence of The Board met regularly during the year, with Board and Committee the Chairman meetings scheduled over one or two-day periods.
Details of Director attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out above.
In order to provide the Board with greater visibility of the Groups operations, to provide further opportunities to meet senior management and to gain a deeper understanding of local market dynamics, the Board aims to visit at least one of the Groups business unit locations each year.
Details of the Boards visit to Boston, USA in July 2017 can be found on page 55.
54 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Information and support Board visit to the USA In advance of each set of meetings, papers and relevant information are delivered so that each Director is provided with the necessary resources In July 2017, the Board and Committee meetings were held in Boston, to full their duties.
The information is published via a secure web portal, Massachusetts, USA.
This provided an opportunity for the Board to visit PV Sullivan, allowing remote access by Directors.
Meeting support is provided by the a blended distributor operating in Massachusetts acquired during the year, and Company Secretariat department.
During these visits the Board met with both senior executives and local management to discuss business strategy and operational All Directors have access through a web portal to a library of relevant performance, and received a presentation from local management on the information about the Company, the Group and Board procedures.
performance and plans for the New England district as a whole.
The Board visited the PV Sullivan warehouse in Boston, which allowed the Board to meet management The Board has an established procedure for Directors, if necessary, and associates and gain a more detailed understanding of the business and how totake independent professional advice at the Companys expense post-acquisition integration plans had been implemented ahead of schedule.
This is in addition to the direct access At the Burlington showroom Board members met staff and customers and saw how product ranging was developing to meet the needs of customers.
that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary for his advice and services.
Board composition Development of the Board As at the date of this report, the Board consists of 11 members including the Upon appointment, all new Directors follow a comprehensive induction Chairman, three Executive Directors and seven Non Executive Directors.
programme, further detail on which is provided below.
All Directors are The composition of the Board is kept under review by the Nominations provided opportunities for further development and training following their Committee to ensure an appropriate balance of skills, experience, induction and, during the year, the Chairman discusses a development independence and knowledge are maintained.
In addition to regular updates on governance, legal and regulatory matters, the Board also receives detailed briengs from The biographies of the Directors on pages 52 and 53 demonstrate the advisers on a variety of topics that are relevant to the Group and its strategy.
strong and diverse experience possessed by the members of the Board.
The annual formal review of governance provides the Directors with an The Non Executive Directors play an essential role bringing a range of opportunity to assess their effectiveness and that of the Board as a whole.
skills and expertise and challenging the Board to help develop Group strategy.
Each of the Non Executive Directors and the Chairman are New Director induction programme considered by the Board to be independent and free of any relationship All new Directors appointed to the Board undertake an induction which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent programme aimed at ensuring they develop an understanding and judgement.
The Code suggests that length of tenure is a factor to consider awareness of our businesses, people and processes, and of their roles when determining the independence of the Non Executive Directors.
and responsibilities as a director of a public company.
The programme Each Non Executive Director has served for six years or less with the isstructured to reect what is regarded as best practice and includes: exception of Tessa Bamford.
Ms Bamford was reappointed for a third threeProvision of relevant current and historical information about the year term from March 2017.
As required by the Code, the reappointment Company and the Group: was subject to a particularly rigorous review, including taking into account Visits to operations around the Group: the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board was satisfied Meetings with the Group Company Secretary and the that Ms Bamford continued to demonstrate the high level of independence Companys advisers: expected of a Non Executive Director.
The Board concluded that Induction briengs from Group functions: and, MsBamford would continue to be a highly effective member of the One-to-one meetings with Directors and senior executives.
Board, recognising in particular her wide-ranging business experience across a range of sectors in the UK and the USA, her expertise in senior During the year, Mike Powell and Nadia Shouraboura undertook induction management succession and her deep knowledge of the Groups programmes following their appointments as Group Chief Financial Officer businesses.
The Board is satisfied each Non Executive Director continues and Non Executive Director respectively.
The programmes were tailored to demonstrate independence of thought and expertise in meetings, to ensure that they could familiarise themselves with the business, and the andto support the senior management in an objective manner.
markets in which it operates, from the ground up.
Why you should vote to re-elect your Board Mr Powell spent significant periods of time with the Groups USA, UK The Board contains a broad range of experience and skills from a variety and Canadian business.
Mr Powell met with senior regional finance and of industries and advisory roles, which fully complement each other.
operational executives, visited branch and showroom locations in the In accordance with the Code, all Directors will stand for election or USA, UK and Canada.
He spent time with senior executives at the Groups re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Directors consumer e-commerce business and time on the road with salespeople biographies can be found on pages 52 and 53, and in the Notice of AGM.
Further details on the AGM can be found on page 144 and at Ms Shourabouras induction spent several days immersed in the business www.
com including at a branch location, a showroom location and a distribution centre at our USA business, time with the consumer e-commerce business and time on the road with a salesperson meeting customers.
Since the end of the 2016 17 financial year, Kevin Murphy was appointed Chief Executive Officer, USA and a member of the Board.
Given the wealth of experience in the business Mr Murphy already possesses, his induction was more focused on his new role and his responsibilities as a Director and Chief Executive Officer, USA.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55
