Administration Registered Office st 1 Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 6JB, Channel Islands Websites of the Fund and the Manager www.
co. uk Manager Genesis Asset Managers, LLP Heritage Hall, Le Marchant Street, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 4HY, Channel Islands Investment Adviser Genesis Investment Management, LLP 21 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7HU, United Kingdom Authorised and regulated by the United Kingdoms Financial Conduct Authority Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP, United Kingdom Administrator and Company Secretary JP Morgan Administration Services Guernsey Limited st 1 Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 6JB, Channel Islands Registrar and Transfer Agent Computershare Investor Services Channel Islands Limited Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES, Channel Islands Stockbrokers JP Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP, United Kingdom Smith & Williamson Securities 25 Moorgate, London EC2R 6AY, United Kingdom Independent Auditors  CI LLP Royal Bank Place, 1 Glategny Esplanade, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 4ND, Channel Islands Legal Advisers Mourant Ozannes 1 Le Marchant Street, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 4HP, Channel Islands Copyright: Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited 2017 76 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given of the twenty eighth Annual General Meeting of the Shareholders of the st Company which is to be held at the Companys registered office at 1 Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les th Echelons, South Esplanade, St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 6JB, Channel Islands on 6 November 2017 at 2 p. m. for the following purposes: Agenda Ordinary Resolutions 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors and audited Financial Statements for the year ended th 30 June 2017: th 2.
To approve the Directors' Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2017: 3.
To appoint KPMG Channel Islands Limited as Independent Auditors to the Fund: 4.
To authorise the Directors to agree the remuneration of the Independent Auditors: 5.
To declare a final dividend of 14.0 US cents per Participating Preference Share to be paid in respect th of the financial year ended 30 June 2017: 6.
To re-elect Sujit Banerji as a Director of the Company: 7.
To re-elect Russell Edey as a Director of the Company: 8.
To re-elect Saffet Karpat as a Director of the Company: 9.
To re-elect Dr. John Llewellyn as a Director of the Company: and 10.
To re-elect Hlne Ploix as a Director of the Company.
To elect Katherine Tsang as a Director of the Company.
None of the Directors have a service contract.
To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution: THAT, In substitution for the Companys existing authority to make market purchases of Participating Preference Shares, the Fund is hereby authorised to make market purchases of Participating Preference Shares provided that: i the maximum number of Participating Preference Shares hereby authorised to be purchased shall be 20,200,000: ii the maximum price which may be paid for a Participating Preference Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for a Participating Preference Share taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Participating Preference Share is purchased: iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Fund to be held in 2018 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and iv the Fund may make a contract to purchase Participating Preference Shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of Participating Preference Shares pursuant to any such contract.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 77 GENESIS EMERGING MARKETS FUND LIMITED st 1 Floor, Les Echelons Court, Les Echelons, South Esplanade St. Peter Port, Guernsey GY1 6JB, Channel Islands
