Financial statements AIFMD Disclosures unaudited Report on remuneration and quantitative remuneration disclosure The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with regard to remuneration bythe Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM to its staff.
This information is available upon request, by writing to the Company Secretary at Northern Trust Fund International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, LesBanques, StPeter Port, Guernsey GY1 3QL.
Leverage The Group may employ leverage and borrow cash, up to a maximum of 20 per cent of the NAV at the time of incurrence, in accordance with its stated investment policy.
The use of borrowings and leverage has attendant risks and can, in certain circumstances, substantially increase the adverse impact to which the Groups investment portfolio may be subject.
For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which the Groups exposure is increased, whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed as the ratio between a Groups exposure and its net asset value, and prescribes two required methodologies, the gross methodology and the commitment methodology as set out in AIFMD Level 2 Implementation Guidance, for calculating such exposure.
Using the methodologies prescribed under the AIFMD, the leverage of the Group is detailed in the table below: Commitment leverage Gross leverage as at 31 March 2017 as 31 March 2017 Leverage ratio 100% 100% Other risk disclosures The risk disclosures relating to risk framework and risk profile of the Group are set out in note 22 to the Financial Statements on pages 93 to 97 and the Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 41 to 45.
Pre investment disclosures The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in an Alternative Investment Fund AIF before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of the AIF.
An investor report relating to AIFMD Article 23 Supplemental Disclosures, setting out information on the Groups investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder information, is included on page 176 of the Prospectus dated 28 November 2016, which is available on the Groups website at www.
There have been no material changes to this information requiring disclosure.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 101
