Report of the Depositary to the shareholders Northern Trust Guernsey Limited has been appointed as Basis of Depositary Review Depositary to Syncona Limited the Company in accordance with The Depositary conducts such reviews as it, in its reasonable the requirements of Article 36 and Articles 21 7, 8 and 9 of the discretion, considers necessary in order to comply with its Directive 2011 61 EU of the European Parliament and of the Council obligations and to ensure that, in all material respects, the Company of 8 June 2011 on Alternative Investment Fund Managers and has been managed i in accordance with the limitations imposed amending Directives 2003 41 EC and 2009 65 EC and Regulations on its investment and borrowing powers by the provisions of its EC No 1060 2009 and EU No 1095 2010 the AIFM Directive.
constitutional documentation and the appropriate regulations and ii otherwise in accordance with the constitutional documentation We have enquired into the conduct of BACIT UK Limited and the appropriate regulations.
Such reviews vary based on the the AIFM for the period 19 December 2016 to 31 March 2017, type of Fund, the assets in which a Fund invests and the processes in our capacity as Depositary to the Company.
used, or experts required, in order to value such assets.
This report including the review provided below has been Review prepared for and solely for the shareholders in the Company.
In our view, the Company has been managed during the period, We do not, in giving this report, accept or assume responsibility in all material respects: for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown.
i in accordance with the limitations imposed on the investment and borrowing powers of the Company by the constitutional Our obligations as Depositary are stipulated in the relevant document: and by the AIFMD legislation: and provisions of the AIFM Directive and the relevant sections of Commission Delegated Regulation EU No 231 2013 collectively ii otherwise in accordance with the provisions of the the AIFMD legislation.
constitutional document and the AIFMD legislation.
Amongst these obligations is the requirement to enquire into the conduct of the AIFM and the Company and their delegates in each For and on behalf of annual accounting period.
Northern Trust Guernsey Limited Our report shall state whether, in our view, the Company has been managed in that period in accordance with the AIFMD legislation.
It is the overall responsibility of the AIFM to comply with these provisions.
If the AIFM or their delegates have not so complied, we as the Depositary will state why this is the case and outline the steps which we have taken to rectify the situation.
The Depositary and its affiliates are or may be involved in other financial and professional activities which may on occasion cause a conflict of interest with its roles with respect to the Company.
The Depositary will take reasonable care to ensure that the performance of its duties will not be impaired by any such involvement and that any conflicts which may arise will be resolved fairly and any transactions between the Depositary and its affiliates and the Company shall be carried out as if effected on normal commercial terms negotiated at arms length and in the best interests of shareholders.
Syncona Limited 102 Annual report and accounts 2017
