Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2017 1.
General information Syncona Limited formerly BACIT Limited the Company is incorporated in Guernsey as a registered closed-ended investment company.
The Companys Ordinary Shares were listed on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange LSE on 26 October 2012 when it commenced its business.
In December 2016, shareholders approved the expansion of the Companys investment policy and the acquisition from the Wellcome Trust of Syncona Partners LLP, a portfolio of life science investments, together with its investment management team the December 2016 transaction.
As part of the transaction, the Company also acquired Cancer Research UKs interest in the Cancer Research Technologies Pioneer Fund LP CRT Pioneer Fund.
The Company makes its funds investments through Syncona Investments LP Incorporated the Partnership, in which the Company isthe sole limited partner.
The general partner of the Partnership is Syncona GP Limited the General Partner, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
It also invests in Syncona Discovery Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Partnership.
The Company makes its life science investments through Syncona Holdings Limited the Holding Company incorporated 24November 2016 and Syncona Portfolio Limited incorporated 24 November 2016.
Syncona Portfolio Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Holding Company.
In addition, the Company has reconfigured its investment management arrangements by the recruitment of the Syncona Partner LLPs life science investment management team.
The life science investment management team is employed by Syncona Investment Management Limited SIML, an indirect UK subsidiary of the Company.
Syncona Limited and Syncona GP Limited are collectively referred to as the Group.
The investment objective and policy are set out in the Directors Report on pages 63 to 64.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered to be material in relation to the Groups financial statements: Statement of compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and are in compliance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for investments and derivatives held at fair value through profit or loss, which have been measured at fair value.
Going Concern The Company has an indefinite life.
The Companys assets currently consist of securities and cash amounting to 895.2 million 31March 2016: 472.8 million of which 43.1 per cent 31 March 2016: 37.3 per cent are readily realisable in three months in normal market conditions and the Company has liabilities including uncalled commitments to underlying investments and funds amounting to 114.1 million 31 March 2016: 47.9 million.
Accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months following the approval of the financial statements.
Hence the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation Syncona GP Limited the General Partner is consolidated in full from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Company obtained control and will continue to be consolidated until such control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of the General Partner during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the effective date of incorporation.
The financial statements of the General Partner are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the General Partner to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
During the year, no such adjustments have been made.
All intra-group transactions, balances and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Entities that meet the definition of an Investment Entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements are held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Syncona Investments LP Incorporated and Syncona Holdings Limited both meet the definition of Investment Entities as described in note 3.
Financial instruments Financial assets and derivatives are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis.
Regular way purchases Syncona Limited 80 Annual report and accounts 2017
