Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities In respect of the Annual Report and audited Consolidated Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Responsibility statement and the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: applicable law and regulations.
the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial with International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance profit or loss of the Group as a whole: with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a adopted by the European Union.
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts Companys performance, business model and strategy: and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the these financial statements include information and details in state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group the Chairmans Statement, the Strategic Report, the Corporate for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, Governance Statements, the Directors Report and the notes International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: to the Financial Statements, which provide a fair review of the properly select and apply accounting policies: information required by: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner a DTR 4.1.
8 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable a fair review of the Company business and a description of information: the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to b DTR 4.1.
11 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, being understand the impact of particular transactions, other events an indication of important events that have occurred since the and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial end of the financial year and the likely future development of performance: and the Company.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Jeremy Tigue Nicholas Moss the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure Chairman Non-Executive Director that the Financial Statements comply with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
They are also responsible for safeguarding 5 July 2017 the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Guernsey and the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 67
