Financial statements Company summary and e-communications for shareholders The Company Registrar services and e-communications for shareholders Syncona Limited is a leading FTSE 250 company focused Communications with shareholders are mailed to the address held on investing in and building global leaders in life science.
Any notifications and enquiries relating to registered share holdings, including a change of address or other The Company is a Guernsey authorised closed ended amendment, should be directed to Capita Asset Services.
investment company listed on the Premium Segment of the London Stock Exchange.
By phone: UK: 0871 664 0300 calls cost 12p per minute plus your phone Information for shareholders companys access charge.
The stock exchange code for the shares is SYNC.
From overseas: 44 371 664 0300 calls outside the United The net asset value is published monthly via the regulatory Kingdom will be charged at the applicable international rate.
news service and is also available on the Companys website.
We are open between 9.00am 5.30pm, Monday to Friday The Company publishes updates with a full investment portfolio excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
review as at 30 September and 31 March each year.
By email: A factsheet containing information on the Companys investments shareholderenquiries@capita.
co. uk portfolio is published monthly and is available on the website and also by request from the Administrator.
By post: Capita Asset Services, The Registry, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, BR3 4TU.
Syncona Limited would like to encourage shareholders to receive shareholder documents electronically, via our website or by email notification instead of hard copy format.
This is a faster and more environmentally friendly way of receiving shareholder documents.
The online Signal Shares service from our registrar, Capita, provides all the information required regarding your shares.
Its features include: the option to receive shareholder communications electronically instead of by post.
direct access to data held for you on the share register including recent share movements and dividend details.
the ability to change your address or dividend payment instructions online.
To receive shareholder communications electronically in future, including all reports and notices of meetings, you just need the shareholder reference printed on your proxy form or dividend notices, and knowledge of your registered address.
Please register your details free on: www.
com Should you require further information, please visit: www.
com Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 103
