Notes to the consolidated financial statements For the year ended 31 March 2017 1.
General information Syncona Limited formerly BACIT Limited the Company is incorporated in Guernsey as a registered closed-ended investment company.
The Companys Ordinary Shares were listed on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange LSE on 26 October 2012 when it commenced its business.
In December 2016, shareholders approved the expansion of the Companys investment policy and the acquisition from the Wellcome Trust of Syncona Partners LLP, a portfolio of life science investments, together with its investment management team the December 2016 transaction.
As part of the transaction, the Company also acquired Cancer Research UKs interest in the Cancer Research Technologies Pioneer Fund LP CRT Pioneer Fund.
The Company makes its funds investments through Syncona Investments LP Incorporated the Partnership, in which the Company isthe sole limited partner.
The general partner of the Partnership is Syncona GP Limited the General Partner, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
It also invests in Syncona Discovery Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Partnership.
The Company makes its life science investments through Syncona Holdings Limited the Holding Company incorporated 24November 2016 and Syncona Portfolio Limited incorporated 24 November 2016.
Syncona Portfolio Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Holding Company.
In addition, the Company has reconfigured its investment management arrangements by the recruitment of the Syncona Partner LLPs life science investment management team.
The life science investment management team is employed by Syncona Investment Management Limited SIML, an indirect UK subsidiary of the Company.
Syncona Limited and Syncona GP Limited are collectively referred to as the Group.
The investment objective and policy are set out in the Directors Report on pages 63 to 64.
Accounting policies The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are considered to be material in relation to the Groups financial statements: Statement of compliance The Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted for use in the European Union, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and are in compliance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Basis of preparation The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis, except for investments and derivatives held at fair value through profit or loss, which have been measured at fair value.
Going Concern The Company has an indefinite life.
The Companys assets currently consist of securities and cash amounting to 895.2 million 31March 2016: 472.8 million of which 43.1 per cent 31 March 2016: 37.3 per cent are readily realisable in three months in normal market conditions and the Company has liabilities including uncalled commitments to underlying investments and funds amounting to 114.1 million 31 March 2016: 47.9 million.
Accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for 12 months following the approval of the financial statements.
Hence the Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation Syncona GP Limited the General Partner is consolidated in full from the date of acquisition, being the date on which the Company obtained control and will continue to be consolidated until such control ceases.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of the General Partner during the year are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the effective date of incorporation.
The financial statements of the General Partner are prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the General Partner to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
During the year, no such adjustments have been made.
All intra-group transactions, balances and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Entities that meet the definition of an Investment Entity under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements are held at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Syncona Investments LP Incorporated and Syncona Holdings Limited both meet the definition of Investment Entities as described in note 3.
Financial instruments Financial assets and derivatives are recognised in the Groups Consolidated Statement of Financial Position when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are classified into the following categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis.
Regular way purchases Syncona Limited 80 Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the timeframe established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
Financial liabilities are classified as other financial liabilities.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss investments Investments purchased are initially recorded at fair value, being the consideration given and excluding transaction or other dealing costs associated with the investment.
Gains and losses on investments sold are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period in which they arise.
The appropriate classification of the investments is determined at the time of the purchase and is re-evaluated on a regular basis.
Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
The carrying amounts, being the cost, shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position approximate the fair values due to the short-term nature of these loans and receivables.
The Group did not hold any loans throughout the year.
Forward currency contracts Forward foreign currency contracts are derivative contracts and as such are recognised at fair value on the date on which they are entered into and subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
Fair value is determined by rates in active currency markets.
Whilst the Group holds no forward currency contracts, similar contracts are held by the Partnership.
Other financial liabilities Other financial liabilities include all other financial liabilities other than those designated as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
The Groups other financial liabilities include payables.
The carrying amounts shown in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position approximate the fair values due to the short-term nature of these other financial liabilities.
Offsetting of financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
Fair value funds portfolio Investments in underlying funds The Groups investments in underlying funds are ordinarily valued using the values whether final or estimated as advised to BACIT UK Limited by the managers, general partners or administrators of the relevant underlying fund.
The Group or BACIT UK Limited may depart from this policy where it is considered such valuation is inappropriate and may, at its discretion, permit any other method of valuation to be used if it considers that such method of valuation better reflects value generally or in particular markets or market conditions and is in accordance with good accounting practice.
In the event that a price or valuation estimate accepted by the Group or by BACIT UK Limited in relation to an underlying fund subsequently proves to be incorrect or varies from the final published price by an immaterial amount, no retrospective adjustment to any previously announced Net Asset Value or Net Asset Value per Share will be made.
Marketable quoted securities Any investments which are marketable securities quoted on an investment exchange are valued at the relevant bid price at the close of business on the relevant date.
Fair value life science portfolio The Groups investments in life science companies are, in the case of quoted companies, valued based on bid prices in an active market as at the reporting date.
In the case of the Groups investments in unlisted companies, the fair value is determined in accordance with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEVC Valuation Guidelines.
These include the use of recent arms length transactions, Discounted Cash Flow DCF analysis and earnings multiples.
Wherever possible, the Group uses valuation techniques which make maximum use of market-based inputs.
Accordingly, the valuation methodology used most commonly by the Group is the Price of Recent Investment PRI.
The following considerations are used when calculating the fair value of unlisted life sciencecompanies: Cost Where the investment has been made recently it is valued on a cost basis unless there is objective evidence that a change in fair value has occurred since the investment was made, such as observable data suggesting a change of the financial, technical, or commercial performance of the underlying investment or, where the Group considers that cost is no longer relevant, theGroup carries out an enhanced assessment based on comparable companies or transactions or milestone analysis.
PRI The Group considers that fair value estimates, which are based entirely on observable market data, are of greater reliability thanthose based on assumptions and, accordingly, where there has been any recent investment by third parties, the price of that investment generally provides a basis of the valuation.
The length of period for which it remains appropriate to use the price of recent investment depends on the specific circumstances of the investment and the stability of the external environment.
Other valuation techniques Where the life science investment management team is unable to value an investment on a cost or PRI basis, or there is objective evidence that a change in fair value has occurred since a relevant transaction, then it employs one of the alternative methodologies set out in the IPEVC Valuation Guidelines such as DCF or price-earnings multiples.
DCF involves estimating the fair value of an investment by calculating the present value of expected future cash flows, based on the most recent forecasts in respect of the underlying business.
Given the difficulty involved with producing reliable cash flow forecasts for seed, start-up and early-stage companies, as described above, the DCF methodology will generally be used in the event that a life science company is in the final stages of clinical testing prior to regulatory approval or has filed for regulatory approval where other metrics are considered less reliable.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 81 Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 2.
Accounting policies continued Derecognition of financial instruments A financial asset is derecognised when: a the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset have expired, b the Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the financial asset, but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a pass through arrangement: or c the Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset, or has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the financial asset, but has transferred control of the financial asset.
A financial liability is derecognised when the contractual obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expired.
Commitments Through its investment in the Partnership and the Holding Company, the Group has outstanding commitments to investments that are not recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Refer to note 24 for further details.
Share-based payments Certain employees of SIML participate in equity incentive arrangements under which they receive awards of Management Equity Shares MES in Syncona Holdings Limited above a hurdle value set out at the date of award.
The MES are not entitled to dividends but any dividends or capital value realised by the Group in relation to the Holding Company are taken into account in determining the value of the MES.
If an individual remains in employment for the applicable vesting period, they then have the right to sell 25 per cent of their vested MES to the Company each year.
The price is determined using a formula stipulated in the Articles of Association of Syncona Holdings Limited Articles.
The Groups policy is to settle half of the proceeds net of expected taxes in Company shares which must normally be held for at least 12 months, with the balance paid in cash.
Consequently, the arrangements are deemed to be partly an equity-settled share-based payment scheme and partly a cash-settled share-based payment scheme under IFRS 2 in the Consolidated Financial Statements of theGroup.
The fair value of the MES at the time of the initial subscription is determined by an independent third-party valuer in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based payments and taking into account the particular rights attached to the MES as described in the Articles.
The external valuer is supplied with detailed financial information relating to the relevant businesses.
Using this information, the fair value is measured using a probability-weighted expected returns methodology, which is an appropriate future-orientated approach when considering the fair value of shares that have no intrinsic value at the time of issue.
The approach replicates that of a binomial option pricing model.
In this case, the expected future payout to the MES was made by reference to the expected evolution of the Holding Companys value for the companies as a whole, as provided by management, including expected dividends and other realisations, which is then compared to the hurdle value.
This is then discounted into present value terms adopting an appropriate discount rate.
The capital asset pricing methodology was used when considering an appropriate discount rate to apply to the payout expected to accrue to the MES on realisation.
When MES are granted, a share-based payment charge is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income equal to the fair value at that date, spread over the vesting period, with an amount credited to the share-based payment reserve in respect of the equity-settled proportion and to non-current liabilities in respect of the cash-settled proportion see below.
In its own financial statements, the Company records a capital contribution to the Holding Company equal to the aggregate amount.
When the Company issues new shares to acquire the MES, the fair value of the MES is credited to the Share Capital Account.
To the extent that the Company expects to pay cash to acquire the MES, the fair value of the MES is recognised as a non-current liability in the Company.
The fair value is established at each balance sheet date and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income throughout the vesting period, based on the proportion vested at each Statement of Financial Position date and adjusted to reflect subsequent movements in fair value up to the date of acquisition of the MES by the Company.
The fair value paid to acquire MES whether in shares in the Company or cash will result in an increase in the carrying value of the Holding Company by the Company.
Income All income is accounted for on an accruals basis and is recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The Partnership receives fee rebates and donations from its investments.
Please refer to note 9 for details.
Syncona Limited 82 Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Expenses Expenses are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Expenses incurred on the acquisition of investments at fair value through profit or loss are charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income in capital.
All other expenses are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in revenue.
Charitable donations are accounted for on an accruals basis and are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Expenses directly attributable to the issuance of shares are charged against capital and recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Attributable to Holders of Ordinary Shares.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and demand deposits.
Cash equivalents are short-term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to insignificant changes in value.
Translation of foreign currency Items included in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements are measured using the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates the functional currency.
The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in Sterling, which is the Groups functional and presentational currency.
Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the date of the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are translated into Sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated into Sterling at foreign exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value was determined.
Standards, amendments and interpretations adopted by the Group The following amendments were applicable for the first time this year but had no material impact on the financial position or performance of the Group.
IFRS 10 Amendments Consolidated Financial Statements effective 1 January 2016 IFRS 12 Amendments Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities effective 1 January 2016 IAS 1 Amendments Disclosure Initiative effective 1 January 2016 IAS 7 Amendments Statement of Cash Flows effective 1 January 2016 IAS 27 Amendments Separate Financial Statements effective 1 January 2016 IAS 28 Amendments Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures effective 1 January 2016 Standards, amendments and interpretations not yet effective At the date of approval of these Consolidated Financial Statements, the following standards and interpretations, which have not been applied in these Consolidated Financial Statements, were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 9 Financial instruments: Classification and Measurement effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 The Group is currently in the process of evaluating the potential effect of these standards.
The standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group.
Presentation of the Statement of Comprehensive Income In order to better reflect the activities of an investment company and in accordance with guidance issued by the Association of Investment Companies, supplementary information which analyses the Statement of Comprehensive Income between items of a revenue and capital nature has been presented alongside the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 83
