Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued For the year ended 31 March 2017 3.
Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The preparation of the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements requires the Directors to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of income, expenses, assets and liabilities at the reporting date.
However, uncertainties about these assumptions and estimates, in particular relating to the Partnerships private equity investments, the investment in the CRT Pioneer Fund and the Holding Companys life science investments, could result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the carrying amount of the assets or liabilities affected in future periods.
Judgements In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made the following judgements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Financial Statements: Functional currency As disclosed in note 2, the Groups functional currency is Sterling.
Sterling is the currency in which the Group measures its performance and reports its results, as well as the currency in which it receives subscriptions from its investors.
Dividends are paid to its investors in Sterling.
The Directors believe that Sterling best represents the functional currency, although it has a significant exposure to other currencies as described in note 22.
Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet the definition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to measure their subsidiaries, other than those that provide investment services to the Group, at fair value through profit or loss rather than consolidate them.
The criteria which define an investment entity are as follows: An entity that obtains funds from one or more investors for the purpose of providing those investors with investment services: An entity that commits to its investors that its business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns from capital appreciation, investment income or both: and An entity that measures and evaluates the performance of substantially all of its investments on a fair value basis.
The Company meets the criteria as follows: The Company is a closed-ended investment company and has a number of investors who pool their funds to gain access to the Companys investment services and investment opportunities to which they might not have had access individually.
The Company, being listed on the London Stock Exchange, obtains funding from a diverse group of external shareholders.
The key judgement relates to whether the business purpose of the Company is consistent with that of an investment company.
The Companys objective is consistent with that of an investment entity.
The Company has the intention to realise the constituents of each of its investment classes.
Some investments are held long term, but for each investment there is an intention to exit the investment at a price and timing that is deemed suitable to the Group.
The Partnership and the Holding Company both measure and evaluate the performance of substantially all of their investments on a fair value basis.
The fair value method is used to represent the Companys performance in its communication to the market, including investor presentations.
In addition, the Company reports fair value information internally to the Board of Directors, who use fair value as a significant measurement attribute to evaluate the performance of its investments.
The IFRS 10 Investment Entity Exemption requires investment entities to fair value all subsidiaries that are themselves investment entities.
As the Partnership and Holding Company meet the criteria of investment entities, they and their underlying subsidiaries have not been consolidated by the Group.
Estimates and assumptions The Groups investments consist of its investments in the Partnership and the Holding Company, both of which are classified as fair value through profit or loss and are valued accordingly, as disclosed in note 2.
The key source of estimation uncertainty is related to the valuation of the Partnerships private equity investments, the investment in the CRT Pioneer Fund and the Holding Companys life science investments.
As at the year end, none of the Partnerships underlying investments have imposed restrictions on redemptions.
However, underlying managers often have the right to impose such restrictions.
The Directors believe it remains appropriate to estimate their fair values based on NAV as reported by the administrators of the relevant investments.
Except for listed investments, the Directors believe that such NAV represents fair value because subscriptions and redemptions in the underlying investments occur at these prices at the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position date, where permitted.
The life science portfolio is very illiquid.
All the companies are currently in early-stage investments and privately owned.
Accordingly, a market value can be difficult to determine.
The accounting policy for the life science portfolio is described in note 2 and the sensitivity of the carrying amount to the assumptions and estimates underlying the valuation including reasons for the sensitivity are described in note 23.
Syncona Limited 84 Annual report and accounts 2017
