Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 1.
Corporate information Experian plc the Company is the ultimate parent company of the Experian group of companies Experian or the Group.
Experian is the leading global information services group.
The Company is incorporated and registered in Jersey as a public company limited by shares and is resident in Ireland.
The Companys registered office is at 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PX, Channel Islands.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchanges Regulated Market and have a Premium Listing.
There has been no change in this information since the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
Basis of preparation The Group financial statements are: prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union the EU and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations together EU-IFRS : prepared on the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention, as modified for the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets and certain other financial assets and financial liabilities: presented in US dollars, the most representative currency of the Groups operations, and generally rounded to the nearest million: prepared using the principal exchange rates set out in note 10: and designed to voluntarily include disclosures in line with those parts of the UK Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Companys own financial statements are prepared under UK accounting standards in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
There has been no change in the above information since the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The use of critical accounting estimates and management judgment is required in applying the accounting policies.
Areas involving a higher degree of judgment or complexity, or where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Group financial statements, are highlighted in note 6.
The going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing these financial statements.
The Board has assessed the principal risks and the other matters discussed in connection with the Viability statement, and the directors consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Comparative information On 31 March 2017 the Group signed a definitive agreement to sell a 75% interest in CCM, subject to customary closing conditions.
It is anticipated that this transaction will be completed in the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
In accordance with IFRS 5, the assets and liabilities of that business at 31 March 2017 are classified as held for sale and the results and cash flows of the business for the year ended 31March 2016 have been reclassified as discontinued.
The results of the Groups operating segments shown within note 9 a and the information on business segments shown within note 9 b have been re-presented accordingly.
Except as indicated above, the Group financial statements have been prepared on a basis consistent with that reported for the year ended 31 March 2016.
125 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 4.
Recent accounting developments There have been no accounting standards, amendments and interpretations effective for the first time in these financial statements which have had a material impact on the financial statements.
There are a number of new standards and amendments to existing standards currently in issue but not yet effective, including three significant standards: IFRS 9 Financial instruments: IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers: and IFRS 16 Leases.
IFRS 9 and IFRS 15 are now expected to be effective for Experian for the year ending 31 March 2019 with IFRS 16 subject to EU endorsement expected to be effective for the year ending 31 March 2020.
It is not currently practicable to quantify their effect.
IFRS 15 is based on the principle that revenue is recognised when control of goods or services is transferred to the customer and provides a single, principles-based five-step revenue recognition model to be applied to all sales contracts.
In implementing IFRS 15, the anticipated principal effect will be in relation to certain contracts representing less than 15% of revenue, which require further review.
These contracts are predominantly related to the Decision Analytics business segment.
There will be a revised assessment of performance obligations compared to the current accounting standards, resulting in the recognition of some revenue streams being deferred and other streams being accelerated.
Certain services which are accounted for separately today will need to be considered as a bundled good or service under IFRS 15, such as set-up fees and the licensing and delivery of configured software solutions.
We will also revisit the apportionment of revenue in certain batch data arrangements where ongoing updates are included.
Our assessment of the impact of the standard on the Group financial statements remains ongoing.
At this stage, it is estimated that the total revenue recognised in any financial year would not materially change under IFRS 15, compared to current accounting standards.
Experian intends to adopt IFRS 15 on a partial retrospective basis and restate its results for the year ending 31 March 2018 as a prior year comparative.
We are still evaluating which of the detailed practical expedients we will adopt for transition, as well as the additional disclosure requirements.
IFRS 9 is not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements.
There are no other new standards, amendments to existing standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
Such developments are routinely reviewed by the Group and its financial reporting systems are adapted as appropriate.
Significant accounting policies The significant accounting policies applied are summarised below.
They have been applied consistently to both years presented.
The explanations of these policies focus on areas where judgment is applied or which are particularly important in the financial statements.
For ease of reference, the content within this note is arranged as follows: sections a to d content that applies generally to the preparation of these financial statements: sections e to o balance sheet policies, to be read in conjunction with specific notes as indicated: sections p to w income statement policies, to be read in conjunction with specific notes as indicated: and section x the policy and presentation principles adopted for disclosing segment information, in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments.
126 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements a Basis of consolidation Experian follows EU-IFRS including: IFRS 3 Business combinations: IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations: and IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings.
Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from the date that the Group no longer has control.
All business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Intra-Group transactions, balances and unrealised gains on transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
Unrealised losses are also eliminated unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the assettransferred.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries and segments are consistent with the policies adopted by the Group for the purposes of the Groups consolidation.
The Group financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 March 2017.
A list of the significant subsidiaries is given in note 44 a to these financialstatements.
Associates Interests in associates are accounted for using the equity method.
They are initially recognised at cost, which includes transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the Group financial statements include the Groups share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of equity-accounted investees, until the date on which significant influence ceases.
Non-controlling interests The non-controlling interests in the Group balance sheet represent the share of net assets of subsidiary undertakings held outside the Group.
The movement in the year comprises the profit attributable to such interests together with any dividends paid, movements in respect of corporate transactions and related exchange differences.
The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in a loss of control as transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases from non-controlling interests, the difference between any consideration paid and the relevantshare acquired of the carrying value of the net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity.
Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are also recorded in equity.
Where put call option agreements are in place in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders, the put element of the liability is stated at the net present value of the expected future payments.
Such liabilities are shown as financial liabilities in the Group balance sheet.
The change in the net present value of such options in the year is recognised in the Group income statement within net finance costs, whilst any change in that value attributable to exchange rate movements is recognised directly in other comprehensive income.
b Foreign currency translation Experian follows EU-IFRS, including IAS 21 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Transactions and balances Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded in the functional currency of the relevant Group undertaking at the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the transaction.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rate prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Translation differences on monetary items are taken to the Group income statement except when recognised in other comprehensive income, as qualifying net investment hedges or cash flow hedges.
Translation differences on non-monetary available-for-sale financial assets are reported as part of the fair value gains or losses in other comprehensive income.
127 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Group undertakings The results and financial position of Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars are translated into US dollars as follows: Income and expenses are generally translated at the average exchange rate for the year.
Where this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, income and expenses are translated at the rates on the dates of the transactions.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the closing exchange rate on the balance sheet date.
All resulting exchange differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and as a separate component of equity.
On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of the net investment in Group undertakings whose functional currencies are not US dollars, and of borrowings and other currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that such hedges are effective.
Tax attributable to those exchange differences is taken directly to other comprehensive income.
When such undertakings are sold, these exchange differences are recognised in the Group income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of such undertakings are treated as assets and liabilities of the entities and are translated into US dollars at the closing exchange rate.
c Fair value estimation Experian follows EU-IFRS, including IFRS 13 Fair value measurement.
The fair values of derivative financial instruments and other financial assets and liabilities are determined by using market data and established estimation techniques such as discounted cash flow and option valuation models.
The fair value of foreign exchange contracts is based on a comparison of the contractual and yearend exchange rates.
The fair values of other derivative financial instruments are estimated by discounting the future cash flows to net present values, using appropriate market rates prevailing at the year-end.
d Impairment of non-financial assets Experian follows EU-IFRS, including IAS 36 Impairment of assets.
Assets that are not subject to amortisation or depreciation are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment when there is an indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
An impairment charge is recognised for the amount by which an assets carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use.
For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped into cash generating units CGUs, determined by the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows.
e Goodwill note 20 Experian follows EU-IFRS, including IAS 38 Intangible assets.
Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment, where cost is the excess of the fair value of the consideration payable for an acquisition over the fair value at the date of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable net assets of a subsidiary or associate acquired.
Fair values are attributed to the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that existed at the date of acquisition, reflecting their condition at that date.
Adjustments are made where necessary to align the accounting policies of acquired businesses with those of the Group.
Goodwill is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.
An impairment charge is recognised for any amount by which the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds the recoverable amount.
Goodwill is allocated to CGUs and monitored for internal management purposes by operating segment.
The allocation is made to those CGUs or groups of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
Where the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment charge is recognised in the Group income statement.
Gains and losses on the disposal of an undertaking take account of the carrying amount of goodwill relating to the undertaking sold, allocated where necessary on the basis of relative fair value.
128 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements f Other intangible assets note 21 Acquisition intangibles Intangible assets acquired as part of a business combination are capitalised on acquisition at fair value and separately from goodwill, if those assets are identifiable separable or arising from legal rights and their fair value can be measured reliably.
Such assets are referred to as acquisition intangibles in these financial statements.
Amortisation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: Customer and other relationships over three to 18 years, based on managements estimates of the average lives of such relationships, and reflecting their long-term nature.
Acquired software development over three to eight years, based on the assets expected life.
Marketing-related assets trademarks and licences over their contractual lives, up to a maximum of 20 years.
Marketing-related assets trade names over three to 14 years, based on managements expected retention of trade names within the business.
Other intangibles Other intangibles are capitalised at cost, in accordance with IAS 38.
Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project are capitalised provided that a number of criteria are satisfied.
These include the technical feasibility of completing the asset so that it is available for use or sale, the availability of adequate resources to complete the development and to use or sell the asset, and how the asset will generate probable future economic benefit.
The cost of such assets with finite useful economic or contractual lives is amortised on a straight-line basis over those lives.
The carrying values are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
If impaired, the carrying values are written down to the higher of fair value less costs to sell, and value-in-use which is determined by reference to projected future income streams using assumptions in respect of profitability and growth.
Further details on the capitalisation and amortisation policy for the key asset classifications within other intangibles are: Databases capitalised databases, which comprise the data purchase and capture costs of internally developed databases, are amortised over three to seven years.
Computer software internal use computer software licences purchased for internal use are capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to purchase and bring into use the specific software.
These costs are amortised over three to ten years.
Computer software internally generated costs directly associated with producing identifiable and unique software products controlled by the Group, and that will generate economic benefits beyond one year, are recognised as intangible assets.
Research expenditure, together with other costs associated with developing or maintaining computer software programs, is recognised in the Group income statement as incurred.
g Property, plant and equipment note 22 Items of property, plant and equipment are held at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value, in accordance with IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and amounts attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
Such leases are capitalised at inception at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis as follows: Freehold properties over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties over the remaining period of the lease.
Owned plant and equipment over three to ten years, according to the assets estimated life.
Technology-based assets are typically depreciated over three to five years, with other infrastructure assets depreciated over five to ten years.
Plant and equipment held under finance lease agreements over the lower of the useful life of the equipment and period of the lease.
129 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 5.
Significant accounting policies continued h Trade receivables note 24 Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at this value less any provision for impairment.
Where the time value of money is material, receivables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to their original terms.
Such evidence is based primarily on the pattern of cash received, compared to the terms upon which the receivable is contracted.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the carrying amount and the value of estimated future cash flows.
Any charges or credits in respect of such provisions and irrecoverable trade receivables are recognised in the Group income statement, within other operating charges.
i Cash and cash equivalents note 25 Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, term and call deposits held with banks and other short-term, highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities onthe Group balance sheet.
For the purposes of the Group cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are reported net of bank overdrafts.
j Financial assets and derivative financial instruments note 29 The Group classifies its financial assets into four categories set out below, with the classification determined at initial recognition and dependent on the purpose for which such assets are acquired: Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables and cash and cashequivalents.
Derivatives used for hedging Derivative financial assets used for hedging are included in current assets, except for maturities more than one year after the balance sheet date which are classified as non-current assets.
Derivatives utilised by the Group include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
Assets at fair value through profit and loss Assets at fair value through profit and loss comprise non-hedging derivative financial instruments.
Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either designated to this category or not classified in the other financial asset categories.
They are carried at fair value and are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the assets within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposures to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and certain obligations relating to share incentive plans, including social security obligations.
Instruments used include interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps, foreign exchange contracts and equity swaps.
These are recognised as assets or liabilities as appropriate and are classified as non-current, unless they mature within one year of the balance sheet date.
Derivatives are initially recognised at their fair value on the date the contract is entered into, and are subsequently remeasured at their fair value.
The method of recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedge relationship.
The Group designates certain derivatives as fair value hedges, which are hedges of the fair value of a recognised asset or liability.
The Group does not currently enter into cash flow or net investment hedges.
130 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Hedging derivatives The Group documents the relationship between hedging instrument and hedged item at the hedge inception, and its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking hedge transactions.
The Group also documents its assessment of whether the derivatives used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of hedged items.
This effectiveness testing is performed at every reporting date throughout the life of the hedge to confirm that the hedge remains, and will continue to remain, highly effective.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires, is sold, terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the period of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedging instruments are recognised in the Group income statement, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk.
The ineffective portion of a fair value hedge is recognised in net finance costs in the Group income statement.
Non-hedging derivatives Changes in the fair value of such derivative instruments are recognised immediately in the Group income statement.
Cost and income amounts in respect of derivatives entered into in connection with social security obligations on employee share incentive plans, other than amounts of a financing nature, are charged or credited within labour costs.
Other costs and changes in the fair value of such derivatives are charged or credited within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
k Trade payables note 26 Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value.
Where the time value of money is material, payables are then carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
l Borrowings note 27 Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of any transaction costs incurred.
Borrowings are subsequently stated at amortised cost, except where they are hedged by an effective fair value hedge, in which case the carrying value is adjusted to reflect the fair value movements associated with the hedged risk.
Borrowings are classified as non-current to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least one year after the balance sheet date.
m Post-employment benefit assets and obligations note 34 Defined benefit pension arrangements funded plans The post-employment benefit assets and obligations recognised in the Group balance sheet in respect of funded plans comprise the fair value of plan assets of funded plans less the present value of the related defined benefit obligation at that date.
The defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries, using the projected unit credit method.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows, using market yields on high-quality corporate sterling bonds with maturity terms consistent with the estimated average term of the related pensionliability.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised immediately inthe Group statement of comprehensive income.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises the cost of benefits accrued plus interest on the opening net defined benefit obligation.
Service costs and financing income and expenses are recognised separately in the Group income statement.
Plan expenses are deducted from the expected return on the plan assets over the year.
Defined benefit pension arrangements unfunded plans Unfunded pension obligations are determined and accounted for in accordance with the principles used in respect of the fundedarrangements.
131 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 5.
Significant accounting policies continued Defined contribution pension arrangements The assets of defined contribution plans are held separately in independently administered funds.
The pension cost recognised in the Group income statement represents the contributions payable by the Group to these funds, in respect of the year.
Post-retirement healthcare obligations Obligations in respect of post-retirement healthcare plans are calculated annually by independent qualified actuaries, using an actuarial methodology similar to that for the funded defined benefit pension arrangements.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments, and changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in theGroup statement of comprehensive income.
The cost recognised in the Group income statement comprises only interest onthe obligation.
n Own shares note 38 The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
In connection with these, shares in the Company are held by the Experian plc Employee Share Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan.
The assets of these entities mainly comprise Experian shares, which are shown as a deduction from equity at cost.
Shares in the Company purchased and held as treasury shares, in connection with the above plans and any share purchase programme, are also shown as a deduction from equity at cost.
The par value of shares in the Company that are purchased and cancelled, in connection with any share purchase programme, is accounted for as a reduction in called up share capital with any cost in excess of that amount being deducted from retained earnings.
o Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale note 41 Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale when their carrying amounts are to be recovered or settled principally through a sale transaction and a sale is considered highly probable.
They are stated at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
No depreciation or amortisation is charged in respect of non-current assets classified as held for sale.
p Revenue recognition note 9 Revenue represents the fair value of consideration receivable on the provision of services, net of any sales taxes, rebates and discounts.
This includes the provision and processing of data, subscriptions to services, software and database customisation and development, and the sale of software licences, maintenance and related consulting services.
Revenue in respect of the provision and processing of data is recognised in the period in which the service is provided.
Subscription revenues, and revenues in respect of services to be provided by an indeterminate number of acts over a specified period of time, are recognised on a straight-line basis over those periods.
Customisation, development and consulting revenues are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the work, which is generally on the basis of costs incurred to date as a percentage of estimated total costs.
Revenue from software licences is recognised upon delivery.
Revenue from maintenance agreements is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the maintenance period.
Where a single arrangement comprises a number of elements which are capable of operating independently of one another, the total revenues are allocated amongst the elements, based on an estimate of the fair value of each element.
Where the elements are not capable of operating independently, or reasonable measures of fair value for each element are not available, total revenues are recognised on a straight-line basis over the contract period, to reflect the timing of services performed.
Sales are typically invoiced in the geographic area in which the customer is located.
As a result, the geographic location of the invoicing undertaking is used to attribute revenue to individual countries.
q Operating charges Operating charges are reported by nature in the Group income statement, reflecting the Groups cost-management controlstructure.
Details of the types of charges within labour costs in respect of share incentive plans are set out in note t below.
Those for postemployment benefits are set out in note m above.
132 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Details of the Groups amortisation and depreciation policy are given in notes f and g above.
The principles upon which impairment charges are recognised are set out in notes d and e above.
Payments made under operating leases are charged in the Group income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease period.
Incentives from lessors are recognised as a systematic reduction of the charge over the lease period.
r Net finance costs note 15 Incremental transaction costs which are directly attributable to the issue of debt are capitalised and amortised over the expected life of the borrowing, using the effective interest rate method.
All other borrowing costs are charged in the Group income statement in the year in which they are incurred.
Amounts payable or receivable in respect of interest rate swaps are taken to net finance costs over the periods of the contracts, together with the interest differentials reflected in foreign exchange contracts.
Details of the nature of movements in the fair value of derivatives which are reported as financial fair value remeasurements are included in note j above.
The change in the year in the present value of put call option agreements, in respect of shares held by non-controlling shareholders, is recognised as a financing fair value remeasurement within net finance costs.
s Tax note 16 The tax charge or credit for the year is recognised in the Group income statement, except for tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Current tax is calculated on the basis of the tax laws substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, in the countries where the Group operates.
Current tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset.
Uncertain tax positions are considered on an individual basis.
Where management considers it probable that an additional outflow will result from any given position, a provision is made.
Such provisions are measured using managements best estimate of the most likely outcome.
Further details are given in note 6.
Deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the Group financial statements.
Deferred tax is not recognised on taxable temporary differences arising on the initial recognition of goodwill.
Deferred tax is not accounted for when it arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the liability settled, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date, in the countries where the Group operates.
Deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of tax losses carried forward and other temporary differences, to the extent that it is probable that the related tax benefit will be realised through future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the Group controls the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and where they relate to the same tax authority.
t Share incentive plans note 32 The fair value of share incentives granted in connection with the Groups equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using whichever of the BlackScholes model, Monte Carlo model or closing market price is most appropriate.
The Group takes into account the best estimate of the number of awards and options expected to vest and revises such estimates at each balance sheet date.
Non-market performance conditions are included in the vesting estimates.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement but are not revised for actual performance.
133 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 5.
Significant accounting policies continued u Contingent consideration Contingent consideration is recognised in accordance with EU-IFRS, including IFRS 3.
The initially recorded cost of any acquisition includes a reasonable estimate of the fair value of any contingent amounts expected to be payable in the future.
Any cost or benefit arising when such estimates are revised is recognised in the Group income statement see note 14.
Where part or all of the amount of disposal consideration is contingent on future events, the disposal proceeds initially recorded include a reasonable estimate of the value of the contingent amounts expected to be receivable and payable in the future.
The proceeds and profit or loss on disposal are adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding adjustments made to receivables and payables as appropriate, until the ultimate outcome is known and the related consideration received.
v Discontinued operations note 17 A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business that represents a separate geographic area of operation or a separate major line of business.
Classification as a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or earlier, if the operation meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale.
Discontinued operations are presented in the income statement as a separate line and are shown net of tax.
When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparatives in the Group income statement and the Group statement of comprehensive income are re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.
w Earnings per share 'EPS' note 18 Earnings per share are reported in accordance with EU-IFRS, including IAS 33. x Segment information policy and presentation principles note 9 Experian is organised into, and managed on a worldwide basis through, the following five operating segments, which are based on geographic areas and supported by central functions: North America: Latin America: UK and Ireland: Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA : and Asia Pacific.
The chief operating decision maker assesses the performance of these operating segments on the basis of Benchmark EBIT, as defined in note 7.
The All other segments category required to be disclosed has been captioned as EMEA Asia Pacific in these financial statements.
This combines information in respect of the EMEA and Asia Pacific segments, as neither of these operating segments is individually reportable, on the basis of their share of the Groups revenue, reported profit or loss, and assets.
Experian separately presents information equivalent to segment disclosures in respect of the costs of its central functions, under the caption Central Activities, as management believes that this information is helpful to users of the financial statements.
Costs reported for Central Activities include costs arising from finance, treasury and other global functions.
Inter-segment transactions are entered into under the normal commercial terms and conditions that would be available to third parties.
Such transactions do not have a material impact on the Groups results.
Segment assets consist primarily of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets including goodwill, inventories, derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions, and receivables.
They exclude tax assets, cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives designated as hedges of borrowings.
Segment liabilities comprise operating liabilities, including derivatives designated as hedges of future commercial transactions.
They exclude tax liabilities, borrowings and related hedging derivatives.
Net assets reported for Central Activities comprise corporate head office assets and liabilities, including certain post-employment benefit assets and obligations, and derivative assets and liabilities.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, other than additions through business combinations.
134 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Information required to be presented also includes analysis of the Groups revenues by groups of service lines.
This is supplemented by voluntary disclosure of the profitability of those groups of service lines.
For ease of reference, Experian continues to use the term business segments when discussing the results of groups of service lines.
Experians four business segments, details of which are given in the Strategic report section of this Annual Report, are: Credit Services: Decision Analytics: Marketing Services: and Consumer Services.
The North America and the UK and Ireland operating segments derive revenues from all of the Groups business segments.
The EMEA and Asia Pacific segments currently do not derive revenue from the Consumer Services business segment and such revenue generated in the Latin America segment is not yet sufficiently material to be disclosed separately.
Reportable segment information for the full year provided to the chief operating decision maker is set out in note 9 a.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments a Critical accounting estimates and assumptions In preparing these financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and the disclosure of contingent liabilities.
The resulting accounting estimates, which are based on managements best judgment at the date of these financial statements, will seldom equal the related actual results.
The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are summarised below.
Revenue recognition is excluded from this summary on the grounds that the policy adopted in this area is sufficiently objective.
Tax notes 16, 35, and 43 c The Group is subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions.
The Group has a number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom it is in active dialogue.
Liabilities relating to these open and judgmental matters are based on an assessment as to whether additional taxes will be due, after taking into account external advice where appropriate.
significant judgment is required in determining the related assets or provisions, as there are transactions in the ordinary course of business and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities based on estimates of whether additional tax will be due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, the differences will affect the results for the year and the respective income tax and deferred tax assets or provisions in the year in which such determination is made.
The Group recognises deferred tax assets based on forecasts of future profits against which those assets may be utilised.
Goodwill note 20 The Group tests goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if there is an indication that it may be impaired.
The recoverable amount of each CGU is generally determined on the basis of value-in-use calculations, which require the use of cash flow projections based on financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Management determines budgeted profit margin based on past performance and its expectations for the markets development.
Cash ows are extrapolated using estimated growth rates beyond a five-year period.
The growth rates used do not exceed the long-term average growth rate for the CGUs markets.
The discount rates used reflect the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital WACC, as adjusted for region-specific risks and other factors.
135 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 6.
Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments continued b Critical judgments In applying the Groups accounting policies, management has made judgments that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the Group financial statements and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The most significant of these judgments are in respect of intangible assets and contingencies: Intangible assets Certain costs incurred in the developmental phase of an internal project, which include the development of databases, internal use software and internally generated software, are capitalised as intangible assets if a number of criteria are met.
Management has made judgments and assumptions when assessing whether a project meets these criteria, and on measuring the costs and the economic life attributed to such projects.
On acquisition, specific intangible assets are identified and recognised separately from goodwill and then amortised over their estimated useful lives.
These include items such as brand names and customer lists, to which value is first attributed at the time of acquisition.
The capitalisation of these assets and the related amortisation charges are based on judgments about the value and economic life of such items.
The economic lives of intangible assets are estimated at between three and ten years for internal projects and between two and 20years for acquisition intangibles.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate.
Further details of the amounts of, and movements in, such assets are given in note 21.
Contingencies In the case of pending and threatened litigation claims, management has formed a judgment as to the likelihood of ultimate liability.
No liability has been recognised where the likelihood of any loss arising is possible rather than probable.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements As detailed below, the Group has identified and defined certain measures that it believes assist understanding of Experians performance.
The measures are not defined under IFRS and they may not be directly comparable with other companies adjusted measures.
The non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for, or superior to, any IFRS measures of performance but management has included them as they consider them to be key measures used within the business for assessing the underlying performance of the Groups ongoing businesses.
a Benchmark profit before tax Benchmark PBT note 9 a i Benchmark PBT is disclosed to indicate the Group's underlying profitability.
It is defined as profit before amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles, impairment of goodwill, acquisition expenses, adjustments to contingent consideration, exceptional items, financing fair value remeasurements, tax and discontinued operations.
It includes the Groups share of continuing associates post-tax results.
An explanation of the basis on which Experian reports exceptional items is provided below.
Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT are explained as follows: Charges for the amortisation and impairment of acquisition intangibles are excluded from the calculation of Benchmark PBT because these charges are based on judgments about their value and economic life and bear no relation to the Groups underlying ongoing performance.
Impairment of goodwill is similarly excluded from the calculation of Benchmark PBT.
Acquisition and disposal expenses representing the incidental costs of acquisitions and disposals, one-time integration costs and other corporate transaction expenses relating to successful, active or aborted acquisitions are excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT as they bear no relation to the Groups underlying ongoing performance or to the performance of any acquired businesses.
Adjustments to contingent consideration are similarly excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
136 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Charges and credits for financing fair value remeasurements within finance expense in the Group income statement are excluded from the definition of Benchmark PBT.
These include that element of the Groups derivatives that is ineligible for hedge accounting together with gains and losses on put options in respect of acquisitions.
Amounts recognised generally arise from market movements and accordingly bear no direct relation to the Groups underlying performance.
b Benchmark earnings before interest and tax Benchmark EBIT and margin Benchmark EBIT margin note 9 a i Benchmark EBIT is defined as Benchmark PBT before the net interest expense charged therein and accordingly excludes exceptional items as defined below.
Benchmark EBIT margin is Benchmark EBIT from ongoing activities expressed as a percentage of revenue from ongoing activities.
c Benchmark earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation Benchmark EBITDA Benchmark EBITDA is defined as Benchmark EBIT before the depreciation and amortisation charged therein note 12. d Exited business activities Exited business activities are businesses sold, closed or identified for closure during a financial year.
These are treated as exited business activities for both revenue and Benchmark EBIT purposes.
The results of exited business activities are disclosed separately with the results of the prior period re-presented in the segmental analyses as appropriate.
This measure differs from the definition of discontinued operations in IFRS 5. e Ongoing activities The results of businesses trading at 31 March 2017, which are not disclosed as exited business activities, are reported as ongoingactivities.
f Constant exchange rates To highlight its organic performance, Experian discusses its results in terms of growth at constant exchange rates, unless otherwise stated.
This represents growth calculated after translating both years performance at the prior years average exchangerates.
g Total growth note 9 a ii This is the year-on-year change in the performance of Experians activities at actual exchange rates.
Total growth at constant exchange rates removes the translational foreign exchange effects arising on the consolidation of Experians activities and comprises Experians measure of performance at constant exchange rates.
h Organic revenue growth note 9 a ii This is the year-on-year change in the revenue of ongoing activities, translated at constant exchange rates, excluding acquisitions until the first anniversary of their consolidation.
i Benchmark earnings and Total Benchmark earnings note 18 Benchmark earnings comprise Benchmark PBT less attributable tax and non-controlling interests.
The attributable tax for this purpose excludes significant tax credits and charges arising in the year which, in view of their size or nature, are not comparable with previous years, together with tax arising on exceptional items and on other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT.
Benchmark PBT less attributable tax is designated as Total Benchmark earnings.
j Benchmark earnings per share Benchmark EPS note 18 Benchmark EPS comprises Benchmark earnings divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares, as adjusted for own shares held.
k Benchmark PBT per share Benchmark PBT per share comprises Benchmark PBT divided by the weighted average number of issued ordinary shares, as adjusted for own shares held.
l Benchmark tax charge and rate note 16 b ii The Benchmark tax charge is the tax charge applicable to Benchmark PBT.
It differs from the Group tax charge by tax attributable to exceptional items and other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, and exceptional tax charges.
A reconciliation is provided in note 16 b ii to these financial statements.
The Benchmark effective rate of tax is calculated by dividing the Benchmark tax charge by Benchmark PBT.
137 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 7.
Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements continued m Exceptional items note 14 a The separate reporting of non-recurring exceptional items gives an indication of the Groups underlying performance.
Exceptional items include those arising from the profit or loss on disposal of businesses, closure costs of major business units, costs of significant restructuring programmes and other financially significant one-off items.
All other restructuring costs are charged against Benchmark EBIT, in the segments in which they are incurred.
n Full year dividend per share note 19 Full year dividend per share comprises the total of dividends per share announced in respect of the financial year.
o Benchmark operating and Benchmark free cash flow Benchmark operating cash flow is Benchmark EBIT plus amortisation, depreciation and charges in respect of share-based incentive plans, less capital expenditure net of disposal proceeds and adjusted for changes in working capital and the profit or loss retained in continuing associates.
Benchmark free cash flow is derived from Benchmark operating cash flow by excluding net interest, tax paid in respect of continuing operations and dividends paid to non-controlling interests.
p Cash flow conversion Cash flow conversion is Benchmark operating cash flow expressed as a percentage of Benchmark EBIT.
q Net debt and Net funding note 28 Net debt is borrowings and the fair value of derivatives hedging borrowings excluding accrued interest, less cash and cash equivalents and other highly liquid bank deposits with original maturities greater than three months.
Net funding is borrowings and the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives hedging borrowings excluding accrued interest, less cash held in GroupTreasury.
r Return on capital employed ROCE note 9 a iii ROCE is defined as Benchmark EBIT less tax at the Benchmark rate divided by a three-point average of capital employed over the year.
Capital employed is net assets less non-controlling interests, further adjusted to add or deduct the net tax liability or asset and the average capital employed in discontinued operations, and to add Net debt.
Financial risk management a Financial risk factors The Groups activities expose it to a variety of financial risks.
These are market risk, including foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
These risks are unchanged from those reported in the 2016 Annual Report.
The numeric disclosures in respect of financial risks are included within later notes to the financial statements, to provide a more transparent link between financial risks and results.
Financial risks represent part of the Groups risks in relation to its strategy and business objectives.
There is a full discussion of the most significant risks in the Principal risks section of this Annual Report.
The Groups financial risk management focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potentially adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
The Group seeks to reduce its exposure to financial risks and uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures.
However the Group does not, nor does it currently intend to, borrow in the Brazilian real or the Colombian peso.
The Group also ensures surplus funds are prudently managed and controlled.
138 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Market risk Foreign exchange risk The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk from future commercial transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and investments in, and loans between, Group undertakings with different functional currencies.
The Group manages such risk, primarily within undertakings whose functional currencies are US dollars, by: entering into forward foreign exchange contracts in the relevant currencies in respect of investments in entities with functional currencies other than US dollars, whose net assets are exposed to foreign exchange translation risk: swapping the proceeds of certain bonds issued in sterling and euros into US dollars: denominating internal loans in relevant currencies, to match the currencies of assets and liabilities in entities with different functional currencies: and using forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge certain future commercial transactions.
The principal transaction exposures are to sterling and the euro.
An indication of the sensitivity to foreign exchange risk is given in note 10.
Interest rate risk The Groups interest rate risk arises principally from components of its Net debt that are at variable rates.
The Group has a policy of normally maintaining between 50% and 100% of Net funding at rates that are fixed for more than six months.
The Group manages its interest rate exposure by: using fixed and floating rate borrowings, and interest rate swaps and cross currency interest rate swaps to adjust the balance between the two: and mixing the duration of borrowings and interest rate swaps to smooth the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
Further information in respect of the Groups net finance costs for the year and an indication of the sensitivity to interest rate risk is given in note 15. Credit risk In the case of derivative financial instruments, deposits and trade receivables, the Group is exposed to credit risk from the nonperformance of contractual agreements by the contracted party.
Credit risk is managed by: only entering into contracts for derivative financial instruments and deposits with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation: and closely controlling dealing activity and regularly monitoring counterparty positions.
The credit risk on derivative financial instruments utilised and deposits held by the Group is therefore not considered to be significant.
The Group does not anticipate that any losses will arise from non-performance by its chosen counterparties.
Further information on the Groups derivative financial instruments at the balance sheet dates is given in note 29 and that in respect of amounts recognised in the Group income statement is given in note 15.
Further information on the Groups deposits at the balance sheet dates is given in note 25.
To minimise credit risk for trade receivables, the Group has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential clients before granting credit.
The maximum credit risk in respect of such financial assets is their carrying value.
Further information in respect of the Groups trade receivables is given in note 24.
139 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 8.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risk The Group manages liquidity risk by: issuing long maturity bonds and notes: entering into long-term committed bank borrowing facilities, to ensure the Group has sufficient funds available for operations and planned growth: and monitoring rolling cash flow forecasts, to ensure the Group has adequate borrowing facilities.
Details of such facilities are given in note 27.
A maturity analysis of contractual undiscounted future cash flows for financial liabilities is given in note 31. b Capital risk management The Groups definition and management of capital focuses on capital employed: The Groups capital employed is reported in the net assets summary table set out in the Financial review and analysed by segment in note 9 a iii.
As part of its internal reporting processes, the Group monitors capital employed by operating segment.
The Groups objectives in managing capital are to: safeguard its ability to continue as a going concern, in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders: and maintain an optimal capital structure and cost of capital.
The Groups policy is to have: a prudent but efficient balance sheet: and a target gearing ratio of 2.0 to 2.5 times Benchmark EBITDA, consistent with the intention to retain strong investment-grade credit ratings.
To maintain or adjust its capital structure, the Group may: adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders: return capital to shareholders: issue or purchase shares: or sell assets to reduce Net debt.
Dividend policy The Group has a progressive dividend policy which aims to increase the dividend over time broadly in line with the underlying growth in Benchmark earnings per share.
This aligns shareholder returns with the underlying profitability of the Group.
In determining the level of dividend in any one year, in accordance with the policy, the Board also considers a number of other factors, including the outlook for the Group, the opportunities for organic investment, the opportunities to make acquisitions and disposals, the cash flow generated by the Group, and the level of dividend cover.
140 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 9.
Segment information a IFRS 8 disclosures i Income statement EMEA Total Total North Latin UK and Asia operating Central continuing America America Ireland Pacific segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers 2,457 730 807 341 4,335 4,335 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to profit loss before tax Benchmark EBIT 781 251 246 3 1,275 76 1,199 Net interest note 15 b 75 75 Benchmark PBT 781 251 246 3 1,275 151 1,124 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 70 22 8 4 104 104 Acquisition expenses 12 1 1 2 16 16 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 67 67 Profit loss before tax 699 228 237 9 1,155 84 1,071 EMEA Total Total North Latin UK and Asia operating Central continuing America America Ireland Pacific segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,294 631 924 315 4,164 4,164 Exited business activities 43 15 15 73 73 Total 2,337 631 939 330 4,237 4,237 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to profit loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 704 226 297 15 1,212 82 1,130 Exited business activities 11 3 1 15 15 Total 715 226 300 14 1,227 82 1,145 Net interest note 15 b 74 74 Benchmark PBT 715 226 300 14 1,227 156 1,071 Exceptional items note 14 a 53 2 18 37 37 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 22 12 5 115 115 Acquisition expenses 4 4 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 2 2 2 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 21 21 Profit loss before tax 688 204 288 37 1,143 177 966 The results for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-presented in respect of the email cross-channel marketing business.
141 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 9.
Segment information continued A profit before tax of US$8m 2016: US$41m arose in the year in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information on such operations which comprise the Groups email cross-channel marketing business in the current year and the Groups comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in the prior year is given in note 17 a.
Additional information by operating segment, including that on total and organic growth at constant exchange rates, is provided in the Strategic report.
Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by operating segment for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-analysed in the table on the preceding page between ongoing and exited business activities, following the disposal of a number of businesses during the year ended 31 March 2017. ii Reconciliation of revenue from ongoing activities Total North Latin UK and EMEA ongoing America America Ireland Asia Pacific activities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2016 2,294 631 924 315 4,164 Adjustment to constant exchange rates 6 7 1 Revenue at constant exchange rates for the year ended 31 March 2016 2,294 625 931 315 4,165 Organic revenue growth 104 55 6 29 194 Revenue from acquisitions 59 59 Revenue at constant exchange rates for the year ended 31 March 2017 2,457 680 937 344 4,418 Adjustment to actual exchange rates 50 130 3 83 Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2017 2,457 730 807 341 4,335 Organic revenue growth at constant rates 5% 9% 1% 9% 5% Total revenue growth at constant rates 7% 9% 1% 9% 6% 142 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements iii Balance sheet Net assets liabilities Total Central North Latin UK and EMEA operating Activities Total America America Ireland Asia Pacific segments and other Group At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 2,641 801 603 200 4,245 4,245 Investments in associates 22 13 7 42 42 Other assets 1,447 580 364 224 2,615 789 3,404 Total assets 4,110 1,381 980 431 6,902 789 7,691 Total liabilities 603 147 276 135 1,161 3,879 5,040 Net assets liabilities 3,507 1,234 704 296 5,741 3,090 2,651 Total Central North Latin UK and EMEA operating Activities Total America America Ireland Asia Pacific segments and other Group At 31 March 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Goodwill 2,474 731 680 313 4,198 4,198 Investments in associates 3 5 8 8 Other assets 1,439 481 415 253 2,588 613 3,201 Total assets 3,916 1,212 1,095 571 6,794 613 7,407 Total liabilities 553 135 309 150 1,147 3,822 4,969 Net assets liabilities 3,363 1,077 786 421 5,647 3,209 2,438 Central Activities and other comprises: 2017 2016 Net assets Net assets Assets Liabilities liabilities Assets Liabilities liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Central Activities 224 104 120 258 147 111 Assets liabilities classified as held for sale 358 58 300 Net debt 98 3,271 3,173 172 3,195 3,023 Tax 109 446 337 183 480 297 789 3,879 3,090 613 3,822 3,209 The total tax liability for the Group at 31 March 2017 also includes a net liability of US$18m classified as held for sale note 41.
143 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 9.
Segment information continued Capital employed 2017 2016 US$m US$m North America 3,507 3,363 Latin America 1,234 1,077 UK and Ireland 704 786 EMEA Asia Pacific 296 421 Total operating segments 5,741 5,647 Central Activities 120 111 Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale note 41 300 Non-controlling interests 12 14 Capital employed attributable to owners 6,149 5,744 iv Capital expenditure, amortisation and depreciation Capital expenditure Amortisation Depreciation 2016 2016 2016 Re-presented Re-presented Re-presented 2017 Note 3 2017 Note 3 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m North America 172 136 105 112 40 41 Latin America 120 79 63 53 9 8 UK and Ireland 59 57 31 34 13 17 EMEA Asia Pacific 26 31 23 29 8 8 Total operating segments 377 303 222 228 70 74 Central Activities 22 12 28 29 2 3 Total Group 399 315 250 257 72 77 Amortisation and depreciation above only include amounts charged to Benchmark PBT.
Capital expenditure of US$24m 2016: US$24m, amortisation of US$14m 2016: US$13m and depreciation of US$6m 2016: US$6m arose in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information is given in note 17. v Revenue by country continuing operations 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m USA 2,449 2,326 UK 800 933 Brazil 649 556 Colombia 62 57 Other 375 365 4,335 4,237 Revenue is primarily attributable to countries other than Ireland.
No single client accounted for 10% or more of revenue in the current or prior year.
Revenue from the USA, the UK and Brazil in aggregate comprises 90% 2016: 88% of Group revenue.
144 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements vi Non-current assets by country 2017 2016 US$m US$m USA 3,643 3,494 UK 830 928 Brazil 951 830 Colombia 233 227 Other 352 503 Segment non-current assets by country 6,009 5,982 Central Activities 202 137 Deferred tax 83 159 6,294 6,278 To add clarity to the presentation of this information, non-current assets for Central Activities and deferred tax have been excluded from the analysis by country.
The Group has no significant non-current assets located in Ireland.
b Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures Total Total Credit Decision Marketing Consumer business Central continuing Services Analytics Services Services segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers 2,389 584 421 941 4,335 4,335 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to profit loss before tax Benchmark EBIT 817 120 95 243 1,275 76 1,199 Net interest note 15 b 75 75 Benchmark PBT 817 120 95 243 1,275 151 1,124 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 76 9 4 15 104 104 Acquisition expenses 7 9 16 16 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 67 67 Profit loss before tax 734 111 91 219 1,155 84 1,071 145 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 9.
Segment information continued b Information on business segments including non-GAAP disclosures continued Total Total Credit Decision Marketing Consumer business Central continuing Services Analytics Services Services segments Activities operations Year ended 31 March 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue from external customers Ongoing activities 2,240 566 407 951 4,164 4,164 Exited business activities 3 13 57 73 73 Total 2,243 579 464 951 4,237 4,237 Reconciliation from Benchmark EBIT to profit loss before tax Benchmark EBIT Ongoing activities 791 104 76 241 1,212 82 1,130 Exited business activities 1 6 8 15 15 Total 792 110 84 241 1,227 82 1,145 Net interest note 15 b 74 74 Benchmark PBT 792 110 84 241 1,227 156 1,071 Exceptional items note 14 a 5 48 6 37 37 Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 77 24 8 6 115 115 Acquisition expenses 1 3 4 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 2 2 2 Financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 21 21 Profit loss before tax 707 134 70 232 1,143 177 966 A profit before tax of US$8m 2016: loss before tax of US$41m arose in the year in respect of discontinued operations.
Further information is given in note 17 a.
Revenue and Benchmark EBIT by business segment for the year ended 31 March 2016 have been re-analysed in the above table between ongoing and exited business activities, following the disposal of a number of businesses during the year ended 31 March2017.
Additional information by business segment, including that on total and organic growth at constant exchange rates, is provided in the Strategic report.
146 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 10.
Foreign currency a Principal exchange rates used Average Closing 2017 2016 2017 2016 2015 US dollar : Brazilian real 3.30 3.59 3.17 3.56 3.22 Sterling : US dollar 1.30 1.51 1.25 1.44 1.48 Euro : US dollar 1.10 1.10 1.07 1.14 1.07 US dollar : Colombian peso 2,969 2,942 2,894 2,997 2,596 b Foreign exchange risk i Brazilian real intra-Group funding In 2012, Brazilian real intra-Group funding was provided to Serasa S. A. in Brazil from a Group company whose functional currency was not the Brazilian real.
As the funding was considered to be permanent, no foreign exchange volatility was recognised within financing fair value remeasurements in the Group income statement.
In November 2014, the funding was partially repaid.
The Group exchanged the repayment into US dollars and used it to repay debt.
Following the partial repayment of the debt, the remaining funding was no longer regarded as permanent for the purposes of EU-IFRS.
As a result of the weakening of 11% in the Brazilian real against the US dollar in the year ended 31 March 2016, a charge of US$33m was recognised within financing fair value remeasurements in that year note 15 c. In the year ended 31 March 2017 a further element of the funding was repaid.
As a result of the strengthening of 11% in the Brazilian real against the US dollar in the year ended 31 March 2017, a gain of US$34m has been recognised within financing fair value remeasurements in the current year note 15 c. The Group is similarly exposed to the impact of the Brazilian real strengthening or weakening against the US dollar in the future.
A movement of 24% would result in a US$63m impact on profit before tax.
There is no effect on total equity as a result of this exposure, since it arises on intra-Group funding and there would be a related equal but opposite foreign exchange movement recognised in the translation reserve within equity.
ii Other exposures On the basis of the profile of foreign exchange exposures, and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in such exposures, there are no other material sensitivities to foreign exchange risk at the balance sheet dates.
In making these assessments, actual data on movements in the principal currencies over the most recent three-year period has been considered together with exposures at the balance sheet dates.
This methodology has been applied consistently.
Labour costs and employee numbers continuing operations a Labour costs including executive directors 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Wages and salaries 1,192 1,122 Social security costs 176 180 Share incentive plans note 32 a 60 57 Pension costs defined benefit plans note 34 a 8 9 Pension costs defined contribution plans 48 50 Employee benefit costs 1,484 1,418 Other labour costs 131 141 1,615 1,559 Other labour costs includes those in respect of external contractors, outsourcing and the recruitment, development and training of employees.
The definition of key management personnel, and an analysis of their remuneration, is given in note 44 d. 147 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 11.
Labour costs and employee numbers continuing operations continued b Average monthly number of employees including executive directors 2017 2016 Re-presented Note 3 Full-time Full-time Full-time Part-time equivalent Full-time Part-time equivalent North America 6,225 40 6,245 5,844 44 5,867 Latin America 3,130 113 3,187 2,973 95 3,021 UK and Ireland 3,500 264 3,632 3,331 249 3,455 EMEA Asia Pacific 2,583 64 2,615 2,608 94 2,655 Total operating segments 15,438 481 15,679 14,756 482 14,998 Central Activities 149 20 159 149 17 158 15,587 501 15,838 14,905 499 15,156 12.
Amortisation and depreciation charges 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Benchmark: Amortisation of other intangible assets 250 257 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 72 77 322 334 Non-benchmark: Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 104 115 426 449 An analysis by segment of amounts charged within Benchmark PBT is given in note 9 a iv.
Analyses by asset type are given in notes 21 and 22.
Fees payable to the Companys auditor 2017 2016 US$m US$m Audit of the Company and Group financial statements 0.5 0.5 Audit of the financial statements of the Companys subsidiaries 2.6 3.2 Tax compliance services 0.5 Tax advisory services 2.0 Audit-related assurance services 0.4 0.4 Other assurance services 0.1 0.3 Other services 0.5 Total fees payable to the Companys auditor and its associates 4.1 6.9 Summary of fees by nature: Fees for audit services 3.1 3.7 Fees for audit related assurance services 0.4 0.4 Fees for other services 0.6 2.8 4.1 6.9 148 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Fees in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017 were payable to KPMG LLP, whilst those for the year ended 31 March 2016 were payable to  LLP.
Guidelines covering the use of the Company's auditor for non-audit services are set out in the Corporate governance report.
Current policy, effective from 1 April 2016, is that such fees are capped at 50% of the fees for audit services.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, fees payable for such services, other than fees for audit-related assurance services, were 19% of fees payable for audit services.
Such fees are reported within Other operating charges.
Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations a Net charge for Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 Notes US$m US$m Exceptional items: Profit on disposal of businesses 14 b 57 North America security incident related costs 14 c 20 Credit charge for exceptional items 37 Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT Amortisation of acquisition intangibles 21 104 115 Acquisition expenses 16 4 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 2 Financing fair value remeasurements 15 c 67 21 Charge for other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 53 142 Net charge for Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 53 105 By income statement caption: Labour costs 6 Amortisation and depreciation charges 104 115 Other operating charges 10 26 Profit on disposal of businesses 14 b 57 Within operating profit 120 84 Finance expense 15 c 67 21 53 105 Acquisition expenses comprise professional fees and expenses associated with completed, ongoing and terminated acquisition processes, as well as the integration costs associated with completed deals.
149 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 14.
Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT continuing operations continued b Profit on disposal of businesses The net profit on disposal of businesses in the prior year and the related cash inflows are analysed in the table below.
2016 US$m Goodwill 85 Other intangible assets 40 Property, plant and equipment 3 Deferred tax assets 5 Inventories 2 Trade and other receivables 31 Cash and cash equivalents 4 Trade and other payables 40 Net assets disposed 130 Disposal proceeds and costs: Proceeds 213 Transaction costs 24 Recycled cumulative currency translation loss 2 Disposal proceeds, net of costs 187 Profit before tax on disposal 57 Cash inflow from disposal: Proceeds received in cash 214 Cash and cash equivalents sold with businesses 4 Tax paid on disposal 42 Other transaction costs paid 18 Net cash inflow 150 The profit before tax on the disposal of businesses primarily related to the disposals of the FootFall and Baker Hill businesses and the consumer insights businesses, Hitwise and Simmons.
c North America security incident related costs In September 2015, Experian North America suffered an unauthorised intrusion to its Decision Analytics computing environment, which allowed unauthorised acquisition of certain data belonging to a client, T-Mobile USA, Inc. Experian notified the individuals who may have been affected and offered free credit monitoring and identity theft resolution services.
In addition, government agencies were notified as required by law.
During the year the Group received insurance recoveries of US$22m, which offset US$18m of additional legal and remediation expenses incurred in the year and a US$4m provision for future costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2016, the costs to Experian of directly responding to this incident were reflected in a charge of US$20m.
150 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 15.
Net finance costs a Net finance costs included in profit before tax 2017 2016 US$m US$m Interest income: Bank deposits, short-term investments and loan notes 14 20 Interest income 14 20 Finance expense: Eurobonds and notes 86 93 Bank loans, commercial paper, overdrafts and other 13 14 Commitment and facility fees 5 5 Interest expense on pension plan liabilities 1 Interest differentials on derivatives 16 18 Interest expense 89 94 Credit charge in respect of financing fair value remeasurements note 15 c 67 21 Finance expense 22 115 Net finance costs included in profit before tax 8 95 b Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 2017 2016 US$m US$m Interest income 14 20 Interest expense 89 94 Net interest expense included in Benchmark PBT 75 74 c Analysis of credit charge for financing fair value remeasurements 2017 2016 US$m US$m Fair value gains on borrowings attributable to interest rate risk 29 16 Fair value gains losses on borrowings attributable to currency risk 125 22 Losses gains on interest rate swaps fair value hedges 1 2 Losses gains on cross currency swaps fair value hedges 160 10 Fair value gains losses on non-hedging derivatives 39 2 Foreign exchange gains losses on Brazilian real intra-Group funding 34 33 Other foreign exchange gains losses on financing activities 3 7 Gain in connection with commitments to purchase own shares 2 Increase decrease in present value of put options 2 13 67 21 151 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 15.
Net finance costs continued d Interest rate risk The following table shows the sensitivity to interest rate risk, on the basis of the profile of Net debt at the balance sheet dates and an assessment of reasonably possible changes in the principal interest rates, with all other variables held constant.
In making this assessment, actual movements in relevant interest rates over the most recent three-year period have been considered and a consistent methodology applied.
An indication of the primary cause of the reported sensitivity of profit for the financial year isincluded.
2017 2016 Loss gain US$m US$m Effect of an increase of 0.2% 2016: 0.1% on US dollar-denominated Net debt: Due to fair value gains on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest on floating rate borrowings 2 3 Effect of an increase of 0.1% 2016: 0.1% on sterling-denominated Net debt: Due to the revaluation of borrowings and related derivatives 1 1 Effect of an increase of 2.0% 2016: 2.3% on Brazilian real-denominated Net debt: Due to higher interest income on cash and cash equivalents 2 Effect of an increase of 0.2% 2016: 0.2% on euro-denominated Net debt: Due to fair value gains on interest rate swaps offset by higher interest on floating rate borrowings 16.
Group tax charge a Analysis of tax charge in the Group income statement 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Current tax: Tax on income for the year 177 209 Adjustments in respect of prior years 5 26 Total current tax charge 172 183 Deferred tax: Origination and reversal of temporary differences 74 56 Adjustments in respect of prior years 13 5 Total deferred tax charge 87 61 Group tax charge 259 244 The Group tax charge comprises: UK tax 72 116 Non-UK tax 187 128 259 244 152 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements b Tax reconciliations i Reconciliation of the Group tax charge As the Group is subject to the tax rates of more than one country, it has chosen to present its reconciliation of the Group tax charge using the main rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The effective rate of tax for each year based on profit before tax is higher than the main rate of corporation tax in the UK, with the differences explained in note c below.
2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Profit before tax 1,071 966 Profit before tax multiplied by the main rate of UK corporation tax of 20% 2016: 20% 214 193 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior years 8 21 Tax on exceptional items 18 Other income not taxable 12 7 Losses not recognised 16 16 Expenses not deductible 61 84 Different effective tax rates in non-UK businesses 28 39 Group tax charge 259 244 Effective rate of tax based on profit before tax 24.2% 25.3% ii Reconciliation of the Group tax charge to the Benchmark tax charge 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Group tax charge 259 244 Tax charge on disposal of businesses 34 Tax relief on other exceptional items 8 Tax relief on other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT 35 45 Benchmark tax charge 294 263 Benchmark PBT 1,124 1,071 Benchmark tax rate 26.2% 24.6% 153 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 16.
Group tax charge continued c Factors that affect the tax charge Prior year adjustments reflect the net movement on historical tax positions, including adjustments for matters that have been substantively agreed with local tax authorities, and adjustments to deferred tax assets based on latest estimates and assumptions.
Tax on exceptional items principally relates to the disposal of businesses, with the high effective tax rate in the year ended 31March 2016 reflecting the different locations of the disposals and the fact that the cost for tax purposes was lower than that for accounting purposes.
Expenses not deductible include charges in respect of uncertain tax positions, financing fair value remeasurements not allowable for tax purposes, and losses on the disposal of businesses which are not subject to tax relief.
The Group's tax rate reflects its internal financing arrangements that are in place to fund non-UK businesses.
In addition, in the normal course of business, the Group has a number of open tax returns with various tax authorities with whom it is in active dialogue.
At 31 March 2017 the Group held current tax provisions of US$213m in respect of uncertain tax positions.
The Group does not consider there to be any major sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of taxrelated assets and liabilities within the next financial year.
d Other factors that affect the future tax charge The Groups tax charge will continue to be influenced by the profile of profits earned in the different countries in which the Groups subsidiaries operate.
The Group could be affected by changes in tax law in the future, as we expect countries to amend legislation in respect of international tax.
The main rate of UK corporation tax was reduced to 19% from 1 April 2017 and will be reduced further to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These reductions had been substantively enacted at 31 March 2017 and their effects are recognised in these financial statements.
Discontinued operations Experian has agreed to divest the Groups email cross-channel marketing business CCM, and the results and cash flows of this business are accordingly classified as discontinued with comparative figures re-presented.
Experian completed a transaction to divest its comparison shopping and lead generation businesses in October 2012, and their results and cash flows are classified as discontinued.
154 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements a Results for discontinued operations The profit for the financial year from discontinued operations of US$53m 2016: US$30m comprises a profit of US$66m 2016: US$42m in respect of the email cross-channel marketing business and a loss of US$13m 2016: US$12m in respect of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses.
The results of the email cross-channel marketing business were: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Revenue 308 313 Labour costs 153 153 Data and information technology costs 27 22 Depreciation and amortisation charges 27 23 Marketing and customer acquisition costs 3 4 Other operating charges 50 50 Total operating expenses 260 252 Separation and transaction related charges 18 Profit before tax 30 61 Tax credit charge 36 19 Profit for the financial year from discontinued operations 66 42 Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$7m 2016: US$4m.
The tax credit from discontinued operations includes a US$45m deferred tax credit as the Group now expects to realise certain temporary timing differences relating to its investment in a subsidiary undertaking as a result of the disposal of CCM.
The results of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses were: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 22 20 Tax credit in respect of disposal 9 8 Loss for the financial year from discontinued operations 13 12 The loss on disposal in both years arose from the reduction in the carrying value of the loan note receivable issued as part of thedisposal.
b Cash flows for discontinued operations 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash inflow from operating activities 41 70 Cash flow used in investing activities 21 11 20 59 Cash inflow from operating activities of US$41m 2016: US$70m relates to the email cross-channel marketing business and is stated after tax paid of US$9m 2016: US$14m.
Cash flow used in investing activities of US$21m 2016: US$11m comprises an outflow of US$24m 2016: US$24m relating to the email cross-channel marketing business, and a cash inflow of US$3m 2016: US$13m on the partial redemption of a loan note which arose on the disposal of the comparison shopping and lead generation businesses.
155 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 18.
Earnings per share disclosures a Earnings per share Basic Diluted 2016 2016 Re-presented Re-presented 2017 Note 3 2017 Note 3 US cents US cents US cents US cents Continuing and discontinued operations 92.1 78.6 91.4 78.1 Deduct: discontinued operations 5.6 3.1 5.6 3.1 Continuing operations 86.5 75.5 85.8 75.0 Deduct: exceptional items, net of related tax 1.2 1.2 Add: other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 1.9 10.1 1.9 10.1 Benchmark EPS non-GAAP measure 88.4 84.4 87.7 83.9 b Analysis of earnings i Attributable to owners of Experian plc 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 866 753 Deduct: discontinued operations 53 30 Continuing operations 813 723 Deduct: exceptional items, net of related tax 11 Add: other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 18 97 Benchmark earnings attributable to owners of Experian plc non-GAAP measure 831 809 ii Attributable to non-controlling interests 2017 2016 US$m US$m Continuing and discontinued operations 1 1 Add: amortisation of acquisition intangibles attributable to non-controlling interests, net of related tax Benchmark earnings attributable to non-controlling interests non-GAAP measure 1 1 c Reconciliation of Total Benchmark earnings to profit for the financial year 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Total Benchmark earnings non-GAAP measure 830 808 Profit from discontinued operations 53 30 Profit from exceptional items, net of related tax 11 Loss from other adjustments made to derive Benchmark PBT, net of related tax 18 97 Profit for the financial year 865 752 d Weighted average number of ordinary shares 2017 2016 million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares 940 958 Add: dilutive effect of share incentive awards, options and share purchases 8 6 Diluted weighted average number of ordinary shares 948 964 156 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 19.
Dividends 2017 2016 US cents US cents per share US$m per share US$m Amounts recognised and paid during the financial year: First interim paid in January 2017 2016: January 2016 13.0 121 12.5 120 Second interim paid in July 2016 2016: July 2015 27.5 260 27.0 260 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 40.5 381 39.5 380 Full year dividend for the financial year 41.5 386 40.0 380 A second interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017 of 28.5 US cents per ordinary share will be paid on 21 July 2017, to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 23 June 2017.
This dividend is not included as a liability in these financial statements.
This second interim dividend and the first interim dividend paid in January 2017 comprise the full year dividend for the financial year of 41.5 US cents per ordinary share.
Further administrative information on dividends is given in the Shareholder and corporate information section.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the employee trusts waived their entitlements to dividends of US$5m 2016: US$5m.
There is no entitlement to dividend in respect of own shares held as treasury shares.
Goodwill a Movements in goodwill 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cost and net book amount At 1 April 4,198 4,393 Differences on exchange 31 110 Additions through business combinations note 40 a 292 Disposals 85 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 41 214 At 31 March 4,245 4,198 b Goodwill by CGU 2017 2016 US$m US$m North America 2,641 2,474 Latin America 801 731 UK and Ireland 603 680 EMEA 123 204 Asia Pacific 77 109 At 31 March 4,245 4,198 157 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 20.
Goodwill continued c Key assumptions for value-in-use calculations by CGU 2017 2016 Discount Long-term Discount Long-term rate growth rate rate growth rate % pa % pa % pa % pa North America 12.9 2.3 12.9 2.3 Latin America 17.8 4.7 17.0 4.7 UK and Ireland 9.7 2.3 9.5 2.3 EMEA 12.8 2.9 13.0 3.5 Asia Pacific 11.0 5.3 12.2 5.3 As indicated in note 6 a, value-in-use calculations are underpinned by financial budgets, looking forward up to five years.
Managements key assumptions in setting the financial budgets for the initial five-year period were as follows: forecast revenue growth rates were based on past experience, adjusted for the strategic opportunities within each CGU: the forecasts typically used average nominal growth rates of up to 9%, with Asia Pacific having rates of up to 22%: Benchmark EBIT was forecast based on historic margins, which were expected to be broadly stable throughout the period in the mature CGUs, and improving to a low double-digit margin in EMEA and Asia Pacific: and forecast operating cash flow conversion rates were based on historic experience and performance expectations in a range of 70% to 100%.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 the Groups email cross-channel marketing business met the definition of a CGU.
Goodwill was allocated to this CGU and tested for impairment by comparison to the expected proceeds from its divestment.
No impairment of goodwill was identified and the goodwill attributable to this CGU is classified as held for sale at 31 March 2017.
Further details of the principles used in determining the basis of allocation by CGU and annual impairment testing are given in note6 a. d Results of annual impairment review as at 31 March 2017 The review for the EMEA CGU indicated that the recoverable amount exceeded the carrying value by US$46m and that any decline in estimated value-in-use in excess of that amount would result in the recognition of an impairment charge.
The sensitivities, which result in the recoverable amount being equal to the carrying value, can be summarised as follows: an absolute increase of 2.7 percentage points in the discount rate, from 12.8% to 15.5%: or an absolute reduction of 4.0 percentage points in the long-term growth rate, from a growth of 2.9% to a decline of 1.1%: or a reduction of 3.4 percentage points in the forecast terminal profit margin.
This is forecast to improve to a low double-digit margin in the terminal period but is below managements expectations for a mature CGU.
A reduction in the annual margin improvement of approximately 0.7 percentage points per year over the five-year forecast period would also reduce the recoverable amount to the carrying value.
The recoverable amount of the other CGUs significantly exceeded their carrying value, on the basis of the assumptions set out in the table in note 20 c and any reasonably possible changes thereof.
158 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 21.
Other intangible assets Acquisition intangibles Internally Customer Acquired MarketingInternal generated and other software related use software relationships development assets Databases software Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2016 1,021 209 96 1,131 308 461 3,226 Differences on exchange 8 4 26 4 28 14 Additions through business combinations 21 87 5 113 Other additions 187 41 108 336 Other disposals 11 8 1 63 2 21 106 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 41 23 14 2 28 70 137 At 31 March 2017 1,016 274 97 1,281 323 455 3,446 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2016 427 156 64 704 213 231 1,795 Differences on exchange 1 3 15 3 14 8 Charge for the year 78 24 9 158 46 60 375 Other disposals 11 8 1 63 2 21 106 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 41 16 14 2 17 38 87 At 31 March 2017 478 159 73 814 243 218 1,985 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 594 53 32 427 95 230 1,431 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 538 115 24 467 80 237 1,461 Acquisition intangibles Customer Acquired MarketingInternal Internally and other software related use generated relationships development assets Databases software software Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2015 1,151 233 118 1,149 300 441 3,392 Differences on exchange 33 7 5 40 9 5 99 Additions 176 34 61 271 Disposal of businesses 59 17 15 86 13 20 210 Other disposals 38 2 68 4 16 128 At 31 March 2016 1,021 209 96 1,131 308 461 3,226 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At 1 April 2015 453 155 73 705 185 197 1,768 Differences on exchange 16 7 4 30 5 3 65 Charge for the year 85 25 9 160 49 61 389 Disposal of businesses 57 17 12 63 12 9 170 Other disposals 38 2 68 4 15 127 At 31 March 2016 427 156 64 704 213 231 1,795 Net book amount at 31 March 2015 698 78 45 444 115 244 1,624 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 594 53 32 427 95 230 1,431 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in Other intangible assets is US$nil 2016:US$2m.
159 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 22.
Property, plant and equipment Freehold Short leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2016 174 152 475 801 Differences on exchange 12 1 15 26 Additions through business combinations note 40 a 1 1 Other additions 9 2 76 87 Disposals 13 2 8 23 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 41 - 8 51 59 At 31 March 2017 158 145 478 781 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2016 57 74 318 449 Differences on exchange 4 13 17 Charge for the year 3 9 66 78 Disposals 9 2 6 17 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale note 41 8 33 41 At 31 March 2017 47 73 332 452 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 117 78 157 352 Net book amount at 31 March 2017 111 72 146 329 Freehold Short leasehold Plant and properties properties equipment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 April 2015 195 151 483 829 Differences on exchange 7 7 14 Additions 3 3 62 68 Disposal of businesses 1 16 17 Other disposals 17 1 47 65 At 31 March 2016 174 152 475 801 Accumulated depreciation At 1 April 2015 63 65 311 439 Differences on exchange 2 5 7 Charge for the year 2 11 70 83 Disposal of businesses 1 13 14 Other disposals 6 1 45 52 At 31 March 2016 57 74 318 449 Net book amount at 31 March 2015 132 86 172 390 Net book amount at 31 March 2016 117 78 157 352 The net book amount of assets held under finance lease agreements and capitalised in plant and equipment is US$3m 2016:US$1m.
160 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 23.
Investments in associates 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 April 8 8 Differences on exchange 1 Additions 33 Share of profit after tax 4 4 Dividends received 3 3 At 31 March 42 8 The Group made two small investments in associates in the year.
Trade and other receivables a Analysis by type and maturity 2017 2016 US$m US$m Trade receivables 619 614 Credit note provision 16 12 Trade receivables after credit note provision 603 602 Impairment provision 21 21 Trade receivables net 582 581 VAT and equivalent taxes recoverable 6 2 Prepayments 154 164 Accrued income 174 163 916 910 As reported in the Group balance sheet: Current trade and other receivables 910 902 Non-current trade and other receivables 6 8 916 910 There is no material difference between the fair value and the book value stated above.
The only impaired assets are within trade receivables.
Non-current trade and other receivables comprise prepayments.
Trade receivables with financial institutions comprise 28% 2016: 29% of such receivables in Brazil, 44% 2016: 33% in the UK and 19% 2016: 23% in the USA.
Together these represent 23% 2016: 22% of trade receivables, with other balances spread across a number of sectors and geographies.
b Analysis by nature 2017 2016 US$m US$m Financial instruments 621 637 VAT and equivalent taxes recoverable 6 2 Amounts within prepayments and accrued income 289 271 Items other than financial instruments 295 273 916 910 161 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 24.
Trade and other receivables continued c Analysis by denomination of currency 2017 2016 US$m US$m US dollar 427 440 Sterling 160 181 Brazilian real 156 125 Euro 42 58 Colombian peso 29 20 Other 102 86 916 910 d Analysis of trade receivables after credit note provision 2017 2016 US$m US$m Neither past due nor impaired: New customers of less than six months standing 30 42 Existing customers of more than six months standing 383 365 Neither past due nor impaired 413 407 Past due but not considered impaired: Up to three months past due 126 141 Three to six months past due 20 17 Over six months past due 18 8 Past due but not considered impaired 164 166 Trade receivables not considered impaired 577 573 Trade receivables considered partially impaired note 24 e 26 29 603 602 In the cases of trade receivables reported as not considered impaired, there is no evidence of impairment.
e Analysis of trade receivables considered partially impaired 2017 2016 US$m US$m Up to three months past due 8 10 Three to six months past due 2 5 Over six months past due 16 14 Trade receivables considered partially impaired and provided for 26 29 Impairment provision note 24 f 21 21 Net impaired trade receivables 5 8 162 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements f Movements in the impairment provision 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 April 21 25 Differences on exchange 3 Disposal of businesses 1 Provision for impairment 21 17 Provision utilised in respect of debts written off 7 9 Transfer in respect of assets held for sale 2 Unused amounts reversed 12 8 At 31 March 21 21 25.
Cash and cash equivalents a Analysis by nature 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 56 53 Short-term investments 27 103 83 156 The effective interest rate for cash and cash equivalents held at 31 March 2017 is 4.4% 2016: 8.4%.
There is no material difference between the fair value and the book value stated above.
b Analysis by external credit rating 2017 2016 US$m US$m Counterparty holding of more than US$2m: A rated 50 67 B rated 6 72 Not rated 3 Counterparty holding of more than US$2m 59 139 Counterparty holding of less than US$2m 24 17 83 156 163 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 26.
Trade and other payables a Analysis by type and maturity 2017 2016 Current Non-current Current Non-current US$m US$m US$m US$m Trade payables 201 163 VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 30 43 Social security costs 71 72 Accruals 447 11 473 14 Deferred income 257 4 259 5 Other payables 103 114 5 1,109 15 1,124 24 There is no material difference between the fair value and the book value stated above.
Other payables include employee benefits of US$73m 2016: US$68m and deferred consideration of US$5m 2016: US$10m.
b Analysis by nature 2017 2016 US$m US$m Financial instruments 434 431 VAT and other equivalent taxes payable 30 43 Social security costs 71 72 Amounts within accruals and deferred income 589 602 Items other than financial instruments 690 717 1,124 1,148 Contractual undiscounted future cash flows in respect of financial instruments are shown in note 31.
164 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 27.
Other than finance lease obligations, the borrowings are unsecured.
Further information on the methodology used in determining fair values is given in note 30. b Analysis by maturity 2017 2016 US$m US$m Less than one year 759 52 One to two years 1,080 1,104 Two to three years 688 722 Three to four years 646 Four to five years 517 Over five years 596 3,044 3,120 165 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 27.
Borrowings continued c Analysis by currency 2017 2016 US$m US$m US dollar 2,400 2,514 Sterling 462 443 Euro 97 100 Other 85 63 3,044 3,120 The above analysis takes account of the effect of cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts and reflects the way in which the Group manages exposures.
d Undrawn committed bank borrowing facilities 2017 2016 US$m US$m Facilities expiring in: One to two years 200 Two to three years 150 150 Three to four years 225 Four to five years 1,800 2,025 2,375 2,175 These facilities are at variable interest rates and are in place for general corporate purposes, including the financing of acquisitions and the refinancing of other borrowings.
e Covenants and gearing ratio There is one financial covenant in connection with the borrowing facilities.
Benchmark EBIT must exceed three times net interest expense before financing fair value remeasurements.
The Group monitors this, and the Net debt to Benchmark EBITDA gearing ratio, and has complied with this covenant throughout the year.
Net debt non-GAAP measure a Analysis by nature 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts 81 151 Debt due within one year commercial paper 152 44 Debt due within one year bonds and notes 600 Debt due within one year finance lease obligations 1 3 Debt due after more than one year bonds and notes 1,618 2,447 Debt due after more than one year bank loans and finance lease obligations 651 601 Derivatives hedging loans and borrowings 232 79 3,173 3,023 166 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements b Analysis by balance sheet caption 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents 83 156 Current borrowings 759 52 Non-current borrowings 2,285 3,068 Total reported in the Group balance sheet 2,961 2,964 Accrued interest reported within borrowings above but excluded from Net debt 20 20 Derivatives reported within financial assets 15 20 Derivatives reported within financial liabilities 247 99 3,173 3,023 c Analysis of movements in Net debt Total Derivatives Cash reported in hedging and cash Current Non-current the balance Accrued loans and Movement in equivalents borrowings borrowings sheet interest borrowings Net debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 156 52 3,068 2,964 20 79 3,023 Cash inflow 343 343 23 366 Borrowings cash flow 106 50 156 156 Reclassification of borrowings 600 600 Net interest paid 70 3 67 67 Movement on accrued interest 4 4 Net cash inflow outflow 273 707 554 120 23 143 Net share purchases 353 353 353 Fair value gains losses 29 29 48 19 Exchange and other movements 7 200 207 128 79 At 31 March 2017 83 759 2,285 2,961 20 232 3,173 Total Derivatives Cash reported in hedging and cash Current Non-current the balance Accrued loans and Movement in equivalents borrowings borrowings sheet interest borrowings Net debt US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 147 146 3,146 3,145 17 89 3,217 Cash inflow 840 840 29 869 Borrowings cash flow 157 96 61 Net interest paid 66 1 65 65 Movement on accrued interest 3 3 3 Net cash inflow 617 97 58 772 3 29 804 Net share purchases 592 592 592 Fair value gains losses 16 16 43 27 Exchange and other movements 16 3 4 15 24 9 At 31 March 2016 156 52 3,068 2,964 20 79 3,023 167 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 29.
Financial assets and liabilities a Available-for-sale financial assets Assets of US$57m 2016: US$43m include listed investments of US$36m 2016: US$33m held in the UK to secure certain unfunded pension arrangements note 33 b and trade investments overseas of US$21m 2016: US$10m.
b Other financial assets and liabilities i Summary 2017 2016 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and receivables 15 15 41 41 Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings interest rate swaps 17 17 21 21 Derivatives used for hedging 17 17 21 21 Non-hedging derivatives equity swaps 1 1 2 1 1 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 3 3 4 4 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 1 39 40 32 32 Assets at fair value through profit and loss 5 40 45 5 32 37 Derivative financial instruments total 5 57 62 5 53 58 Total other financial assets 20 57 77 46 53 99 2017 2016 Current Non-current Total Current Non-current Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Derivative financial instruments: Fair value hedge of borrowings cross currency swaps 238 238 80 80 Derivatives used for hedging 238 238 80 80 Non-hedging derivatives foreign exchange contracts 2 2 10 10 Non-hedging derivatives interest rate swaps 1 11 12 2 37 39 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 3 11 14 12 37 49 Derivative financial instruments total 3 249 252 12 117 129 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 12 12 10 10 Total other financial liabilities 15 249 264 12 127 139 Amounts recognised in the Group income statement in connection with the Groups hedging instruments are disclosed in note 15.
There is no material difference between the fair values and the book values stated above.
Loans and receivables principally comprise amounts due following the disposal of businesses, including accrued interest, and the amount of US$15m at 31 March 2017 is stated after an impairment charge of US$22m 2016: US$20m.
This charge is reported within the loss for the financial year from discontinued operations note 17 a.
168 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements ii Fair value and notional principal amounts of derivative financial instruments 2017 2016 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional Fair value Notional US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cross currency swaps 238 1,347 80 1,347 Interest rate swaps 57 2,073 12 930 53 1,475 39 2,349 Equity swaps 2 12 1 12 Foreign exchange contracts 3 231 2 194 4 157 10 301 62 2,316 252 2,471 58 1,644 129 3,997 Notional principal amounts are the amount of principal underlying the contract at the reporting dates.
iii Offsetting derivative financial assets and liabilities Assets Liabilities 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Reported in the Group balance sheet 62 58 252 129 Related amounts not offset in the Group balance sheet 30 39 30 39 Net amount 32 19 222 90 There are no amounts offset within the assets and liabilities reported in the Group balance sheet.
c Analysis by valuation method for items measured at fair value 2017 2016 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets: Derivatives used for hedging 17 17 21 21 Assets at fair value through profit and loss 45 45 37 37 Amounts reported as other financial assets note 29 b 62 62 58 58 Available-for-sale note 29 a 36 21 57 33 10 43 36 62 21 119 33 58 10 101 Financial liabilities: Derivatives used for hedging 238 238 80 80 Liabilities at fair value through profit and loss 14 14 28 49 17 66 252 14 266 129 17 146 Net financial assets liabilities 36 190 7 147 33 71 7 45 169 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 29.
Financial assets and liabilities continued c Analysis by valuation method for items measured at fair value continued The analysis by level is a requirement of IFRS 13 and the definitions are summarised here for completeness: assets and liabilities whose valuations are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities are classified as Level 1: assets and liabilities which are not traded in an active market, and whose valuations are derived from available market data that is observable for the asset or liability, are classified as Level 2: and assets and liabilities whose valuations are derived from inputs not based on observable market data are classified as Level 3.
Level 3 items principally comprise minority shareholdings in unlisted businesses, trade investments, contingent consideration and put and call options associated with corporate transactions.
The inputs used in determining valuations are a mix of earnings and asset valuations, reflecting different contractual arrangements.
There would be no material effect on the amounts stated from any reasonably possible change in such inputs at 31 March 2017. d Analysis of movements in Level 3 assets liabilities Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2016 AvailableContingent AvailableContingent for-sale consideration Other Total for-sale consideration Other Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 10 7 10 7 5 11 22 28 Additions 15 15 2 2 Settlement of contingent consideration 5 5 2 2 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 2 2 Valuation losses gains recognised in Group income statement 2 2 13 13 Disposals 2 2 Currency translation gains losses recognised directly in other comprehensive income 1 1 Other 2 2 2 2 At 31 March 21 2 12 7 10 7 10 7 30.
Fair value methodology Information in respect of the fair value of borrowings is included in note 27 a.
There are no material differences between the carrying value of the Group's other financial assets and liabilities not measured at fair value and their estimated fair values.
The following assumptions and methods are used to estimate the fair values: the fair values of receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents are considered to approximate to the carrying amounts: the fair values of short-term borrowings, other than bonds, are considered to approximate to the carrying amounts due to the short maturity terms of such instruments: the fair value of that portion of bonds carried at amortised cost is based on quoted market prices, employing a valuation falling within Level 1 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy: the fair values of long-term variable rate bank loans and finance lease obligations are considered to approximate to the carrying amount: and the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities are calculated based on a discounted cash flow analysis, using a valuation methodology falling within Level 2 of the IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy.
170 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 31.
Contractual undiscounted future cash flows for financial liabilities Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five one year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 829 1,116 677 17 516 3,155 Net settled derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 7 7 1 15 Gross settled derivative financial instruments: Outflows for derivative contracts 231 672 726 1,629 Inflows for derivative contracts 243 547 559 1,349 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 12 125 167 280 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 12 12 Trade and other payables note 26 b 421 4 2 1 1 5 434 Cash outflows 1,257 1,252 847 18 517 5 3,896 Less than One to two Two to three Three to four Four to five Over five one year years years years years years Total At 31 March 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Borrowings 141 1,183 749 617 20 595 3,305 Net settled derivative financial instruments interest rate swaps 18 15 14 5 2 54 Gross settled derivative financial instruments: Outflows for derivative contracts 340 30 667 723 1,760 Inflows for derivative contracts 355 54 629 597 1,635 Gross settled derivative financial instruments 15 24 38 126 125 Options in respect of non-controlling interests 10 10 Trade and other payables note 26 b 411 10 3 2 1 4 431 Cash outflows 565 1,184 804 750 23 599 3,925 The table above analyses financial liabilities into maturity groupings, based on the period from the balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date.
As the amounts disclosed are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, they differ from the carrying values and fair values.
Contractual undiscounted future cash outflows for derivative financial liabilities in total amount to US$295m 2016: US$179m.
171 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 32.
Share incentive plans a Cost of share-based compensation 2017 2016 US$m US$m Share awards 58 49 Share options 3 5 Expense recognised all equity-settled 61 54 Credit charge for associated social security obligations 1 3 Total expense recognised in Group income statement 60 57 The Group has a number of equity-settled, share-based employee incentive plans.
Further information on share award arrangements is given in note 32 b.
As the numbers of options granted or outstanding under share option plans and the related charge to the Group income statement are not significant, no further disclosures are included in these financial statements.
b Share awards i Summary of arrangements and performance conditions There are three plans under which share awards are currently granted the two Experian Co-Investment Plans the 'CIPs' and the Experian Performance Share Plan the 'PSP'.
Awards take the form of a grant of free shares which vest over a service period of three years, with a maximum term generally of the same length, and are settled by share distribution.
The assumption at grant date for employee departures prior to vesting is 20% for certain unconditional awards, which are only made under the PSP.
Other details in respect of conditional awards are given below.
These include an assumed outcome for Benchmark PBT per share growth, as that forms the basis of the Profit performance condition for awards made in the year ended 31 March 2017 and the year ended 31 March 2016.
The Profit performance condition for awards made in the year ended 31 March 2015 was based on Benchmark PBT growth.
Performance conditions for vesting Assumed outcome at grant date CIPs 50% Profit performance assessed against specified targets Benchmark PBT per share 88% of target Benchmark PBT 71% of target 50% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow Cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow 74% to 78% of target PSP 75% Profit performance assessed against specified targets Benchmark PBT per share 81% of target Benchmark PBT 57% of target 25% Distribution percentage determined by ranking Total TSR 45% to 50% Shareholder Return 'TSR' relative to a comparator group CIPs For the purposes of IFRS 2, the grant date for these plans is the start of the financial year in which performance is assessed.
This is before the number of shares to be awarded is determined but the underlying value of the award is known, subject to the outcome of the performance condition.
The value of awarded shares reflects the performance outcome assumed at the date of their issue to participants and is recognised over a four-year period.
172 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 32.
Share incentive plans continued The range of performance conditions for awards under these plans is set out below.
The Profit performance condition requires Benchmark PBT per share growth at the stated percentages over a three-year period, for awards made in the years ended 31March 2017 and 31 March 2016, with Benchmark PBT growth at the stated percentages for awards made in the earlier year reported.
The cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow performance condition the Cash flow condition is based on cumulative Benchmark operating cash flow over a three-year period.
The period of assessment commences at the beginning of the financial year of grant.
These are not market-based performance conditions as defined by IFRS 2.
Profit performance condition Cash flow condition Year of award Target Maximum Target Maximum Year ended 31 March 2017 4% per annum 8% per annum US$3.6bn US$4.0bn Year ended 31 March 2016 4% per annum 8% per annum US$3.6bn US$4.0bn Year ended 31 March 2015 7% per annum 14% per annum US$4.0bn US$4.4bn PSP The range of Profit performance conditions for conditional awards under this plan is the same as those shown in the table immediately above for the CIPs, also measured over a three-year period.
The TSR performance condition is considered a market-based performance condition as defined by IFRS 2.
In valuing the awarded shares, TSR is evaluated using a Monte Carlo simulation, with historic volatilities and correlations for comparator companies measured over the three-year period preceding valuation and an implied volatility for Experian plc ordinary shares.
ii Information on share grant valuations Share grants are valued by reference to the market price on the day of award, with no modification for dividend distributions or other factors, as participants are entitled to dividend distributions on awarded shares.
Market-based performance conditions are included in the fair value measurement on the grant date and are not revised for actual performance.
Awards granted in the year ended 31 March 2017 had a weighted average fair value per share of 12.78 2016: 11.84. iii Share awards outstanding 2017 2016 million million At 1 April 12.2 14.8 Grants 6.2 4.5 Forfeitures 0.7 1.2 Lapse of awards 2.0 1.7 Vesting 2.2 4.2 At 31 March 13.5 12.2 Analysis by plan: CIPs 4.2 3.8 PSP conditional awards 3.6 3.4 PSP unconditional awards 5.7 5.0 At 31 March 13.5 12.2 173 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 33.
Post-employment benefit plans and related risks An overview of the Group's post-employment benefit plans and the related risks is given below.
The additional information required by IAS 19, which relates only to the Group's defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical benefits obligations, is set out in note 34. a Funded pension plans The Group's principal defined benefit plan is the Experian Pension Scheme, which provides benefits for certain UK employees but was closed to new entrants in 2009.
This plan has rules which specify the benefits to be paid, with the level of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement dependent on age, length of service and salary.
As at 31 March 2017, there were 163 active members of this plan, 1,578 deferred members and 2,843 pensioner members.
The Group provides a defined contribution plan, the Experian Retirement Savings Plan, to other eligible UK employees.
Under this plan, employee and employer contributions are paid by the Group into an independently administered fund, which is used to fund member pensions at retirement.
As at 31 March 2017, there were 3,538 active members of this plan 2016: 3,441.
Both UK plans are governed by trust deeds, which ensure that their finances and governance are independent from those of the Group.
Trustees are responsible for overseeing the investments and funding of the plans and plan administration.
The UK pensions environment is regulated by The Pensions Regulator whose statutory objectives and regulatory powers are described on its website at thepensionsregulator.
A full actuarial funding valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme is carried out every three years, with interim reviews in the intervening years.
The latest full valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2016 by independent qualified actuaries Mercer Limited, using the projected unit credit method.
There was a small funding deficit at the date of that valuation.
The next full valuation will be carried out as at 31 March 2019.
Employees in the USA and Brazil have the option to join local defined contribution plans and, as at 31 March 2017, there were 4,473 active members in the USA 2016: 4,109 and 1,282 in Brazil 2016: 1,421.
There are no other material funded pension arrangements.
b Unfunded pension arrangements The Group's unfunded pension arrangements are designed to ensure that certain directors and senior managers who are affected by the earnings cap, which was introduced by the UK government some years ago to set a ceiling on the amount of benefits that could be paid by defined benefit pension plans, are placed in broadly the same position as those who are not.
There are also unfunded arrangements for Don Robert, a current director of the Company, and certain former directors and employees of Experian Finance plc and Experian Limited.
Don Robert began to receive his pension under this unfunded arrangement in the year ended 31 March 2015.
Certain of these unfunded arrangements in the UK have been secured by the grant to an independent trustee of charges over an independently managed portfolio of marketable securities owned by the Group and reported as available-for-sale financial assets note 29 a. c Post-employment medical benefits The Group operates a plan which provides post-employment medical benefits to certain retired employees and their dependant relatives.
This plan relates to former employees in the UK and, under it, the Group has undertaken to meet the cost of postemployment medical benefits for all eligible former employees who retired prior to 1 April 1994 and their dependants.
d Related risks Through its defined benefit pension plans and post-employment medical benefits plan, the Group is exposed to a number of risks that are inherent in such plans and arrangements, which can be summarised as follows: asset value volatility, with the associated impact on the assets held in connection with the funding of pension obligations and the related cash flows: changes in bond yields, with any reduction resulting in an increase in the present value of pension obligations, mitigated by an increase in the value of plan assets: inflation, as pension obligations are generally linked to inflation and the prevailing rate of inflation experienced for medical benefits is typically higher than other inflation measures in the UK: and life expectancy, as pension and medical benefits are generally provided for the life of beneficiaries and their dependants.
There are no unusual, entity-specific or plan-specific risks, and no significant concentrations of risk.
174 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 34.
Post-employment benefits IAS 19 information a Post-employment benefit amounts recognised in the Group financial statements i Balance sheet assets obligations 2017 2016 US$m US$m Retirement benefit assets obligations funded plans: Fair value of funded plans' assets 1,041 1,023 Present value of funded plans' obligations 1,027 997 Assets in the Group balance sheet for funded defined benefit pensions 14 26 Obligations for unfunded post-employment benefits: Present value of defined benefit pensions unfunded plans 49 49 Present value of post-employment medical benefits 5 6 Liabilities in the Group balance sheet 54 55 Net post-employment benefit obligations 40 29 Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as, under the Experian Pension Scheme rules, future economic benefits are available to the Group in the form of reductions in future contributions.
ii Income statement charge 2017 2016 US$m US$m By nature of expense: Current service cost 5 7 Administration expenses 2 2 Charge within labour costs 7 9 Curtailment gain on disposal of business 1 Charge within operating profit 7 8 Interest expense 1 Total charge to income statement 8 8 By type of plan: Defined benefit pensions 8 7 Post-employment medical benefits 1 Total charge to income statement 8 8 iii Remeasurement recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2017 2016 US$m US$m Defined benefit pensions 13 31 Post-employment medical benefits 1 13 30 175 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 34.
Post-employment benefits IAS 19 information continued b Movements in net post-employment benefit assets obligations recognised in the balance sheet Present value of obligations Fair Defined Defined Postvalue benefit benefit employment Movements of plan pensions pensions medical in net assets funded unfunded benefits Total position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 1,023 997 49 6 1,052 29 Income statement charge credit: Current service cost 5 5 5 Administration expenses 2 2 2 Interest income expense 31 30 2 32 1 Total charge credit to income statement 31 37 2 39 8 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets other than interest 160 160 Gains from change in demographic assumptions 5 5 5 Losses from change in financial assumptions 200 5 205 205 Experience gains 27 27 27 Remeasurement of post-employment benefit assets and obligations 160 168 5 173 13 Differences on exchange 143 139 5 1 145 2 Contributions paid by the Group and employees 10 2 2 8 Benefits paid 40 38 2 40 At 31 March 2017 1,041 1,027 49 5 1,081 40 Present value of obligations Fair Defined Defined Postvalue benefit benefit employment Movements of plan pensions pensions medical in net assets funded unfunded benefits Total position US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 1,094 1,036 52 8 1,096 2 Income statement charge credit: Current service cost 7 7 7 Administration expenses 2 2 2 Curtailment gain 1 1 1 Interest income expense 37 35 2 37 Total charge credit to income statement 37 43 2 45 8 Remeasurements: Return on plan assets other than interest 50 50 Gains from change in financial assumptions 17 1 18 18 Experience gains 1 1 2 2 Remeasurement of post-employment benefit assets and obligations 50 17 2 1 20 30 Differences on exchange 27 27 27 Contributions paid by the Group 10 1 1 11 Contributions paid by employees 2 2 2 Benefits paid 43 40 3 43 At 31 March 2016 1,023 997 49 6 1,052 29 176 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements c Actuarial assumptions and sensitivities The accounting valuations at 31 March 2017 have been based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by Willis Towers Watson to take account of the requirements of IAS 19.
The assumptions for the real discount rate, salary increases and mortality, used to calculate the present value of the defined benefit obligations, all have a significant effect on the accounting valuation.
Changes to these assumptions in the light of prevailing conditions may have a significant impact on future valuations.
Indications of the sensitivity of the amounts reported at 31 March 2017 to changes in the real discount rate, life expectancy and medical costs are included below.
The methods and types of assumptions used are consistent with those used in the prior year and the absolute sensitivity numbers are stated on a basis consistent with the methodology used in determining the accounting valuation as at 31March 2017.
The methodology evaluates the effect of a change in each assumption on the relevant obligations, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.
i Financial actuarial assumptions 2017 2016 % % Discount rate 2.5 3.4 Inflation rate based on the UK Retail Prices Index the 'RPI' 3.2 2.9 Inflation rate based on the UK Consumer Prices Index the 'CPI' 2.2 1.9 Increase in salaries 3.7 3.4 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the RPI where cap is 5% 3.0 2.7 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the CPI where cap is 2.5% 1.7 1.5 Increase for pensions in payment element based on the CPI where cap is 3% 1.9 1.7 Increase for pensions in deferment 2.2 1.9 Inflation in medical costs 6.2 5.9 The principal financial assumption is the real discount rate, which is the excess of the discount rate over the rate of inflation.
The discount rate is based on the market yields on high-quality corporate bonds of a currency and term appropriate to the defined benefit obligations.
In the case of the Experian Pension Scheme, the obligations are in sterling and have a maturity of 18 years.
If the real discount rate increased decreased by 0.1%, the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2017 would decrease increase by approximately US$20m and the annual current service cost would remain unchanged.
The rates of increase for pensions in payment reflect the separate arrangements applying to different groups of Experian's pensioners.
ii Mortality assumptions average life expectancy on retirement at age 65 in normal health 2017 2016 years years For a male currently aged 65 22.8 23.4 For a female currently aged 65 25.0 25.2 For a male currently aged 50 23.8 24.7 For a female currently aged 50 26.1 26.6 The accounting valuation assumes that mortality will be in line with standard tables adjusted to reflect the expected experience of the Experian Pension Scheme membership, based on analysis carried out for the 2016 actuarial valuation.
A specific allowance for anticipated future improvements in life expectancy is also incorporated.
An increase in assumed life expectancy of 0.1 years would increase the defined benefit obligations at 31 March 2017 by approximately US$5m.
177 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 34.
Post-employment benefits IAS 19 information continued c Actuarial assumptions and sensitivities continued iii Post-employment medical benefits The accounting valuation in respect of post-employment medical benefits assumes a rate of increase for medical costs.
If this rate increased decreased by 1.0% per annum, the obligation at 31 March 2017 and the finance expense would remain unchanged.
iv Increase in salaries An increase of 0.1% to the salary increase rate would increase the obligation at 31 March 2017 by approximately US$1m, and the service charge would remain unchanged.
d Assets of the Group's defined benefit plans at fair value 2016 2017 Re-presented US$m % US$m % UK equities 140 14 128 13 Overseas equities 357 34 335 33 Index linked gilts 288 28 277 27 Global corporate bonds 157 15 178 17 Diversified growth fund 96 9 100 10 Other 3 5 1,041 100 1,023 100 The assets of the Experian Pension Scheme are invested in a range of pooled, daily traded, unitised funds managed by BlackRock, largely on a passive management basis.
The Trustee has put in place some triggers for fide-risking the Schemes investment strategy at opportune times, the full details of which are documented in a formal Statement of Investment Principles.
The primary investment objectives are to limit the risk of assets failing to meet the liabilities over the long term as far as is practicable, while investing in assets, to generate income and capital growth, to meet current and future benefit payments.
The Group's defined benefit plans have no material holdings of unlisted assets and no holdings of ordinary shares or borrowings of the Company.
The analysis of the Group's defined benefit plan assets at 31 March 2016 has been re-presented to provide additional information on the types of assets held.
e Future contributions There was a small funding deficit at the date of the 2016 full actuarial valuation of the Experian Pension Scheme.
To correct the shortfall the employer has agreed to pay deficit contributions of US$4m per annum over five years from 1 April 2017.
Contributions, including deficit contributions, currently expected to be paid to this plan during the year ending 31 March 2018 are US$9m by the Group andUS$2m by employees.
178 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements 35.
Deferred and current tax a Deferred tax i Net deferred tax assets liabilities 2017 2016 Notes US$m US$m At 1 April 193 121 Differences on exchange 6 17 Tax charge in the Group income statement continuing operations 16 a 87 61 Tax credit in the Group income statement discontinued operations 17 a 54 8 Business combinations 17 Tax recognised within other comprehensive income 2 6 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 5 3 Disposal of subsidiaries 14 b 5 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 41 17 At 31 March 213 193 Presented in the Group balance sheet as: Deferred tax assets 83 159 Deferred tax liabilities 296 352 213 193 Tax recognised in Other comprehensive income is in respect of the remeasurement of post-employment benefit assets andobligations.
ii Movements in gross deferred tax assets and liabilities Share incentive Accelerated Intangibles Tax losses plans depreciation Other Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 329 91 25 14 229 688 Differences on exchange 37 1 2 2 36 Tax recognised in the Group income statement: continuing operations 2 46 2 1 1 52 - discontinued operations 45 9 54 Business combinations note 40 a 26 26 Tax recognised within Other comprehensive income 2 2 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 5 5 Transfers 5 1 10 6 At 31 March 2017 369 90 26 11 257 753 179 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 35.
Deferred and current tax continued Share incentive Accelerated Intangibles Tax losses plans depreciation Other Total Assets US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 390 139 34 20 190 773 Differences on exchange 39 1 4 44 Tax recognised in the Group income statement: continuing operations 18 47 6 6 18 59 discontinued operations 8 8 Tax recognised within Other comprehensive income 6 6 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 3 3 Disposal of subsidiaries 3 2 5 Transfers 1 13 12 At 31 March 2016 329 91 25 14 229 688 Accelerated Intangibles depreciation Other Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 828 21 32 881 Differences on exchange 32 2 30 Tax recognised in the Group income statement continuing operations 35 1 1 35 Additions through business combinations note 40 a 43 43 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale note 41 16 1 17 Transfers 13 3 22 6 At 31 March 2017 935 25 6 966 Accelerated Intangibles depreciation Other Total Liabilities US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 842 28 24 894 Differences on exchange 29 2 27 Tax recognised in the Group income statement continuing operations 16 7 7 2 Transfers 1 13 12 At 31 March 2016 828 21 32 881 These movements do not take into consideration the offsetting of assets and liabilities within the same tax jurisdiction.
Items classified as Other assets in the above analyses predominantly relate to future tax benefits deferred in line with local tax laws.
iii Other information on deferred tax assets and liabilities As set out in note 6, there are a number of critical judgments in assessing the recognition of deferred tax assets.
The Group has not recognised assets of US$148m 2016: US$142m in respect of losses that could be utilised against future taxable income and assets of US$7m 2016: US$10m in respect of capital losses that could be utilised against future taxable gains.
Whilst these losses are available indefinitely, they have arisen in undertakings in which it is not currently anticipated that future benefit will be available from their use.
In addition, as a result of a probable disposal in the USA, an unrecognised deductible temporary difference of US$718m has arisen on certain investments in subsidiaries.
The capital losses arising on the investments are available for use within five years, and future taxable profits against which the capital losses could be utilised are not currently anticipated.
180 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements There are retained earnings of US$13,666m 2016: US$13,322m in subsidiary undertakings which would be subject to tax if remitted to Experian plc.
No deferred tax liability has been recognised on these because the Group is in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that such differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Given the mix of countries and tax rates, it is not practicable to determine the impact of such remittance.
The main rate of UK corporation tax was 20% during the current and prior year.
It was reduced to 19% from 1 April 2017 and will be reduced further to 17% from 1 April 2020.
These reductions had been substantively enacted at 31 March 2017. b Net current tax assets liabilities 2017 2016 Notes US$m US$m At 1 April 104 62 Exchange and other differences 1 9 Tax charge in the Group income statement continuing operations 16 a 172 183 Tax charge in the Group income statement - discontinued operations 9 19 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners 2 9 Additions through business combinations 40 a 6 - Tax paid on profit on disposal of subsidiaries 14 b - 42 Tax paid - discontinued operations 9 14 Other tax paid 144 122 Transfer in respect of liabilities held for sale 41 1 - At 31 March 124 104 Presented in the Group balance sheet as: Current tax assets 26 24 Current tax liabilities 150 128 124 104 Tax recognised directly in equity on transactions with owners relates to employee share incentive plans.
Provisions 2017 2016 North North America America security Other Legal security Other claims incident liabilities Total incident liabilities Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 27 27 31 31 Differences on exchange 3 3 3 3 Additions through business combinations note 41 25 25 Amount charged in the year 4 11 15 20 13 33 Utilised 8 12 20 20 14 34 At 31 March 17 4 29 50 27 27 Legal claims are in respect of CSIdentity Corporation related provisions and represent the estimated fair value of liabilities in respect of ongoing claims at acquisition, details of which are given in note 40 a.
Details of the North America security incident and the related costs and contingent liabilities are given in notes 14 c and 43 a.
Other liabilities principally comprise liabilities of Serasa S. A. in connection with local legal and tax issues, which were primarily recognised on its acquisition in 2007.
181 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 37.
Called up share capital and share premium account At 31 March 2017, there were 1,005.6m shares in issue 2016: 1,023.0m.
During the year then ended, 0.8m 2016: 1.0m shares were issued and 18.2m 2016: 10.8m shares were cancelled.
Further information on share capital is contained in note O to the Company financial statements.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and Company financial statements in respect of called up share capital and the share premium account arose due to translation of sterling amounts into US dollars at different exchange rates on the different translation dates.
Retained earnings and other reserves a Retained earnings Retained earnings comprise net profits retained in the Group after the payment of equity dividends.
There are no significant statutory, contractual or exchange control restrictions on distributions by Group undertakings.
b Other reserves i Movements in reserves Own Total Merger Hedging Translation shares other reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 15,682 11 919 1,240 17,830 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 28 28 Exercise of share awards and options 36 36 Currency translation gains 18 18 At 31 March 2017 15,682 11 901 1,232 17,804 Own Total shares other Merger Hedging Translation reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 15,682 11 770 905 17,346 Purchase of shares held as treasury shares 344 344 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 71 71 Exercise of share awards and options 80 80 Currency translation losses 149 149 At 31 March 2016 15,682 11 919 1,240 17,830 182 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements ii Nature of reserves The merger reserve arose on the demerger in 2006 and is the difference between the share capital and share premium of GUS plc and the nominal value of the share capital of the Company before a share offer at that date.
Movements on the hedging reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect hedging transactions which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
Movements on the translation reserve and the position at the balance sheet date reflect foreign currency translations since 1April2004 which are not charged or credited to the Group income statement, net of related tax.
The movement in the year ended 31 March 2017 comprises currency translation gains of US$18m 2016: losses of US$149m recognised directly in Other comprehensive income, together with the reclassification of cumulative currency translation gains in respect of divestments of US$nil 2016:US$2m.
The balance on the own shares reserve is the cost of ordinary shares in the Company and further details are given in note 38 b iii.
The difference between the amounts shown in the Group and Company financial statements in respect of this reserve arose due to translation of sterling amounts into US dollars at different exchange rates on different translation dates.
iii Movements in own shares held and own shares reserve Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2016 63 14 77 1,008 232 1,240 Purchase of shares held as treasury shares 1 1 28 28 Exercise of share options and awards 1 2 3 11 25 36 At 31 March 2017 62 13 75 997 235 1,232 Number of own shares held Cost of own shares held Treasury Trusts Total Treasury Trusts Total million million million US$m US$m US$m At 1 April 2015 46 13 59 692 213 905 Purchase of shares held as treasury shares 19 19 344 344 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 4 4 71 71 Exercise of share options and awards 2 3 5 28 52 80 At 31 March 2016 63 14 77 1,008 232 1,240 183 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 39.
Notes to the Group cash flow statement a Cash generated from operations 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 Notes US$m US$m Profit before tax 1,071 966 Share of post-tax profit of associates 4 4 Net finance costs 8 95 Operating profit 1,075 1,057 Profit loss on disposals of fixed assets 9 1 Profit on disposal of businesses 14 b 57 Depreciation and amortisation 12 426 449 Charge in respect of share incentive plans 61 54 Increase in working capital 39 b 39 21 Acquisition expenses difference between income statement charge and amount paid 3 1 Adjustment to the fair value of contingent consideration 2 Movement in exceptional items included in working capital 8 Cash generated from operations 1,525 1,486 Depreciation and amortisation includes amortisation of acquisition intangibles of US$104m 2016: US$115m which is excluded from Benchmark PBT.
b Increase in working capital 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 US$m US$m Inventories 1 Trade and other receivables 59 57 Trade and other payables 19 36 Increase in working capital 39 21 c Cash flows on acquisitions non-GAAP measure 2017 2016 Note US$m US$m Purchase of subsidiaries 40 a 380 Net cash acquired with subsidiaries 40 a 22 Deferred consideration settled 5 13 As reported in the Group cash flow statement 363 13 Acquisition expenses paid 13 3 Payments to acquire non-controlling interests 9 6 Cash outflow for acquisitions non-GAAP measure 385 22 184 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements d Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 2017 2016 US$m US$m Issue of ordinary shares 11 13 Purchase of shares held as treasury shares 344 Purchase of shares by employee trusts 28 71 Purchase and cancellation of own shares 336 190 Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases non-GAAP measure 353 592 As reported in the Group cash flow statement: Cash inflow in respect of net share purchases 11 13 Cash outflow in respect of net share purchases 364 605 353 592 e Analysis of cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash and cash equivalents in the Group balance sheet 83 156 Bank overdrafts 2 5 Cash and cash equivalents in the Group cash flow statement 81 151 f Reconciliation of Cash generated from operations to Benchmark operating cash flow non-GAAP measure 2016 Re-presented 2017 Note 3 Note US$m US$m Cash generated from operations 39 a 1,525 1,486 Purchase of other intangible assets 319 255 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 80 60 Sale of property, plant and equipment 15 13 Acquisition expenses paid 13 3 Dividends received from associates 3 3 Cash outflow in respect of security incident 8 20 Benchmark operating cash flow non-GAAP measure 1,149 1,210 Benchmark free cash flow for the year ended 31 March 2017, as set out in the Financial review within the Strategic report, was US$933m 2016: US$1,065m.
Cash flow conversion for the year ended 31 March 2017 was 96% 2016: 106%.
Acquisitions a Acquisitions in the year The Group made one acquisition during the year ended 31 March 2017, in connection with which provisional goodwill of US$292m was recognised based on the fair value of the net assets acquired of US$88m.
This related to the acquisition on 12 August 2016 of the whole of the issued share capital of CSIdentity, a leading provider of consumer identity management and fraud detection services based in the USA, for a purchase consideration of US$358m.
This acquisition accelerates execution of Experian's Consumer Services strategy and enables Experian to address a broader spectrum of the consumer market.
185 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 40.
Acquisitions continued a Acquisitions in the year continued Net assets acquired, goodwill and acquisition consideration are analysed below.
CSIdentity US$m Intangible assets: Customer and other relationships 21 Software development 87 Other non-acquisition intangibles 5 Intangible assets 113 Property, plant and equipment 1 Trade and other receivables 20 Deferred tax assets 26 Current tax assets 6 Cash and cash equivalents 22 Trade and other payables 32 Provisions 25 Deferred tax liabilities 43 Total identifiable net assets 88 Goodwill 292 Total satisfied by cash 380 These provisional fair values contain amounts which will be finalised no later than one year after the date of acquisition.
Provisional amounts have been included at 31 March 2017 as a consequence of the timing and complexity of the acquisition.
Goodwill represents the synergies, assembled workforce and future growth potential of the business.
None of the goodwill arising in the year of US$292m is currently deductible for tax purposes.
There have been no other material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017 that relate to acquisitions in the current or prior years.
b Additional information i Current year acquisitions CSIdentity US$m Increase in book value from fair value adjustments: Intangible assets 108 Provisions 25 Net deferred tax liabilities 33 Increase in book value from fair value adjustments 50 Gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables 14 Pro forma revenue from 1 April 2016 to date of acquisition 39 Revenue from date of acquisition to 31 March 2017 59 Loss before tax from date of acquisition to 31 March 2017 1 At the date of acquisition, the gross contractual amounts receivable in respect of trade and other receivables of US$14m were expected to be collected in full.
If the transaction had occurred on the first day of the financial period, the estimated loss before tax would have been US$2m.
186 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements ii Prior year acquisitions The Group completed no acquisitions during the year ended 31 March 2016 and the cash outflow of US$13m reported in the Group cash flow statement for that year arose in connection with acquisitions prior to 31 March 2015.
There have been no material gains, losses, error corrections or other adjustments recognised in the year ended 31 March 2017 that relate to acquisitions prior to 31 March 2015.
Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale Experian has agreed to divest the Group's email cross-channel marketing business and it is anticipated that this transaction will be completed in the year ending 31 March 2018.
The assets and liabilities of this business, shown below, have been reclassified at 31 March 2017 as held for sale.
Any gain or loss on disposal will be recognised in the year ending 31 March 2018.
US$m Assets classified as held for sale: Goodwill 214 Other intangible assets 50 Property, plant and equipment 18 Trade receivables 54 Other prepayments and accrued income 20 Current tax asset 2 Assets classified as held for sale 358 Liabilities classified as held for sale: Trade payables 7 Accruals and deferred income 24 Other payables 7 Current tax liability 3 Deferred tax liability 17 Liabilities classified as held for sale 58 42.
Commitments a Operating lease commitments 2017 2016 US$m US$m Commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are payable: In less than one year 57 58 Between one and five years 90 114 In more than five years 35 48 182 220 The Group leases offices, vehicles and technology under non-cancellable operating lease agreements with varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The charge for the year was US$60m 2016: US$64m.
187 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 42.
Commitments continued b Capital commitments 2017 2016 US$m US$m Capital expenditure for which contracts have been placed: Intangible assets 19 18 Property, plant and equipment 14 6 33 24 Capital commitments at 31 March 2017 include commitments of US$13m not expected to be incurred before 31 March 2018.
Commitments as at 31 March 2016 included US$13m not then expected to be incurred before 31 March 2017.
Contingencies a North America security incident In September 2015, Experian North America suffered an unauthorised intrusion to its Decision Analytics computing environment that allowed unauthorised acquisition of certain data belonging to a client, T-Mobile USA, Inc. Experian notified the individuals who may have been affected and offered free credit monitoring and identity theft resolution services.
The one-off costs to Experian of directly responding to this incident were reflected in a US$20m income statement charge in the year ended 31 March 2016.
Experian has received a number of class actions and other related claims in respect of the incident and is working with regulators and government bodies as part of their investigations.
It is currently not possible to predict the scope and effect on the Group of these various regulatory and government investigations and legal actions, including their timing and scale.
In the event of unfavourable outcomes, the Group may benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
b Brazil credit scores As indicated in our 2014 Annual Report, the Group had received a significant number of claims in Brazil, primarily in three states, relating to the disclosure and use of credit scores.
In November 2014, the Superior Court of Justice, the highest court in Brazil for such cases, determined the principal legal issues involved and ruled that the cases had no merit under Brazilian law.
Whilst elements of the legal process have yet to be exhausted and additional related claims could be filed, the directors do not believe that the outcome of any such claims will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that may be unfavourable to the Group.
c Brazil tax As previously indicated, Serasa S. A. has been advised that the Brazilian tax authorities are challenging the deduction for tax purposes of goodwill amortisation arising from its acquisition by Experian in 2007.
The possibility of this resulting in a liability to the Group is believed to be remote, on the basis of the advice of external legal counsel and other factors in respect of the claim.
In October 2016 the First Chamber of the Tax Administrative Counsel ruled in favour of Serasa S. A.
's appeal in the proceedings in respect of the tax assessment, before interest and penalties, of US$58m for the years from 2007 to 2010.
The tax authority has appealed this ruling.
d North America contractual dispute In March 2017 Experian received an adverse ruling on a 2010 contractual dispute in Canada in respect of a software product no longer offered by the Group and damages were awarded of approximately US$30m.
Experian believes it has good grounds for a favourable ruling on appeal and is vigorously defending its position.
However, as is inherent in legal proceedings, there remains a risk of an outcome that may be unfavourable to the Group.
188 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements e Other litigation and claims There continue to be a number of other claims and pending and threatened litigation involving the Group, across all its major geographies, which are being vigorously defended.
The directors do not believe that the outcome of any such claims will have a materially adverse effect on the Groups financial position.
However, as is inherent in legal, regulatory and administrative proceedings, there is a risk of outcomes that may be unfavourable to the Group.
In the case of unfavourable outcomes, the Group may benefit from applicable insurance recoveries.
Principal subsidiary undertakings and related party transactions a Principal subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2017 Company Principal activity Country of incorporation Experian Finance plc Holding company and administrative services England and Wales Experian Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales Experian Limited Information services England and Wales Experian Technology Limited Development of intellectual property England and Wales Serasa S. A.
Information services Brazil Experian Colombia S. A.
Information services Colombia Experian Holdings Ireland Limited Holding company Ireland Experian Ireland Investments Limited Holding company Ireland ConsumerInfo.
com Inc. Consumer services USA Experian Health, Inc. Information services USA Experian Holdings, Inc. Holding company USA Experian Information Solutions Inc. Information services USA Experian Marketing Solutions Inc. Marketing services USA Experian Services Corp.
Administrative services USA The above table shows the Company's significant subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2017 and for the year then ended.
The Company holds direct or indirect interests in the whole of the issued ordinary shares of these undertakings apart from Serasa S. A. in which its interest is 99.7%.
A full list of the Company's related undertakings, including subsidiary undertakings, is given in note R to the Company financial statements.
There are no significant non-controlling interests.
b Transactions with associates A full list of associate undertakings is given in note R iv to the Company financial statements.
There were no individually material associates during the current or prior year and accordingly no related party transactions are reported with such entities.
189 Financial statements|Notes to the Group financial statements Notes to the Group financial statements continued for the year ended 31 March 2017 44.
Principal subsidiary undertakings and related party transactions continued c Transactions with other related undertakings The Group transacts with a number of related undertakings in connection with the operation of its share incentive plans, pension arrangements in the UK, USA and Brazil, and the provision of medical cover in the UK.
These undertakings are listed in note R v to the Company financial statements.
Transactional relationships can be summarised as follows: The assets, liabilities and expenses of the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Share Plan and The Experian plc Employee Share Trust are included in the financial statements.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, US$47m 2016: US$52m was paid by the Group to related undertakings, in connection with the provision of post-employment pensions benefits in the UK, USA and Brazil.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, US$2m 2016: US$3m was paid by the Group to Experian Medical Plan Limited, in connection with the provision of healthcare benefits.
There were no other material transactions or balances with these related undertakings during the current or prior year.
d Remuneration of key management personnel 2017 2016 US$m US$m Salaries and short-term employee benefits 8 10 Share incentive plans 7 6 15 16 Key management personnel comprises the Company's executive directors and further details of their remuneration packages are given in the audited parts of the Report on directors' remuneration.
There were no other material transactions with the Group in which the key management personnel had a personal interest, in either the current or prior year.
Events occurring after the end of the reporting period Details of the second interim dividend announced since the end of the reporting period are given in note 19.
