Governance and accounts Portfolio valuation methodology A description of the methodology used to value Unquoted investments the investment portfolio of 3i Infrastructure and its Unquoted investments are valued using one of the consolidated subsidiary the Group is set out below following methodologies: in order to provide more detailed information than Discounted Cash Flow DCF is included within the accounting policies and the Investment Advisers review for the valuation of the Proportionate share of net assets portfolio.
The methodology complies in all material Sales basis aspects with the International Private Equity and Venture Capital valuation guidelines which are endorsed by the Cost less any fair value adjustments required British Private Equity and Venture Capital Association and Invest Europe formerly the European Private Equity and DCF Venture Capital Association.
DCF is the primary basis for valuation.
In using the DCF basis, fair value is estimated by deriving the present value Basis of valuation of the investment using reasonable assumptions and Investments are reported at the Directors estimate of estimation of expected future cash ows and the terminal fair value at the reporting date in compliance with IFRS value and date, and the appropriate risk-adjusted 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair value is dened as the discount rate that quanties the risk inherent to the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid investment.
The terminal value attributes a residual value to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between to the investee company at the end of the projected market participants at the measurement date.
The discount rate will be estimated for each investment derived from the market General risk-free rate, a risk-adjusted premium and information In estimating fair value, the Directors seek to use a specic to the investment or market sector.
methodology that is appropriate in light of the nature, facts and circumstances of the investment and its Proportionate share of net assets materiality in the context of the overall portfolio.
Where the Group has made investments into other The methodology that is the most appropriate may infrastructure funds, the value of the investment will be consequently include adjustments based on informed derived from the Groups share of net assets of the fund and experience-based judgments, and will also based on the most recent reliable financial information consider the nature of the industry and market practice.
Where the underlying Methodologies are applied consistently from period to investments within a fund are valued on a DCF basis, the period except where a change would result in a better discount rate applied may be adjusted by the Company estimation of fair value.
Given the uncertainties inherent to reect its assessment of the most appropriate in estimating fair value, a degree of caution is applied in discount rate for the nature of assets held in the fund.
exercising judgments and making necessary estimates.
In measuring the fair value, the net asset value of the fund is adjusted, as necessary, to reect restrictions on Investments may include portfolio assets and other net redemptions, future commitments, illiquid nature of the assets liabilities balances.
The methodology for valuing investments and other specic factors of the fund.
portfolio assets is set out below.
Any net assets liabilities within intermediate holding companies are valued in line Sales basis with the Group accounting policy and held at fair value or The expected sale proceeds will be used to assign a approximate to fair value.
fair value to an asset in cases where offers have been Quoted investments received as part of an investment sales process.
This may either support the value derived from another Quoted equity investments are valued at the closing methodology or may be used as the primary valuation bid price at the reporting date.
A marketability discount is applied to the expected International Financial Reporting Standards, no discount sale proceeds to derive the valuation where appropriate.
is applied for liquidity of the stock or any dealing restrictions.
Quoted debt investments will be valued Cost less fair value adjustment using quoted prices provided by third-party broker Any investment in a company that has failed or, in the information where reliable or will be held at cost less fair view of the Board, is expected to fail within the next value adjustments.
12 months, has the equity shares valued at nil and the xed income shares and loan instruments valued at the lower of cost and net recoverable amount.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 103
