Governance and accounts significant accounting policies Corporate information Basis of consolidation 3i Infrastructure plc the Company is a company In accordance with IFRS 10 as amended, entities that incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The meet the denition of an investment entity are required Consolidated financial statements for the year to to fair value certain subsidiaries through profit or 31 March 2017 comprise the financial statements of the loss in accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Company and its consolidated subsidiary as dened in Recognition and Measurement, rather than consolidate IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements together their results.
However, those subsidiaries that are not referred to as the Group.
The Companies Jersey Law themselves investment entities and provide investment- 1991 does not require the directors of a company to related services to the Company are consolidated.
present separate financial statements where consolidated Intragroup balances between the Company and the financial statements are presented and therefore the consolidated subsidiary, 3i Infrastructure Seed Assets GP financial results and position of the Company are Limited, and any unrealised gains and losses or income not presented alongside the consolidated financial and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, statements of the Group.
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial The financial statements were authorised for issue statements.
There will be no elimination in relation to bytheBoard of Directors on 10 May 2017. transactions between the Company and subsidiaries held at fair value.
Statement of compliance Key estimates and judgments These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting The preparation of financial statements in accordance Standards, International Accounting Standards and their with IFRS requires the Directors to exercise judgment in interpretations issued or adopted by the International the process of applying the accounting policies dened Accounting Standards Board as adopted for use in the below.
The following policies are areas where a higher European Union IFRS.
degree of judgment has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements.
These financial statements have also been prepared in accordance with and in compliance with the Companies i Assessment as investment entity Entities that meet Jersey Law 1991. the denition of an investment entity within IFRS 10 are required to measure their subsidiaries at fair value Basis of preparation through profit or loss rather than consolidate them unless they provided investment-related services to the The financial statements are prepared on a going Company.
To determine that the Company continues to concern basis as disclosed in the Directors statement meet the denition of an investment entity, the Company on page 73, as the Directors are satisfied that the is required to satisfy the following three criteria: Group has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
In making this assessment, the a the Company obtains funds from one or more Directors have considered a wide range of information investors for the purpose of providing those investor s relating to present and future conditions, including future with investment management services: projections of profitability and cash ows.
b the Company commits to its investor s that its The financial statements of the Group are presented business purpose is to invest funds solely for returns in sterling, the functional currency of the Company, from capital appreciation, investment income, or both: rounded to the nearest hundred thousand pounds and 0.1 million except where otherwise indicated.
c the Company measures and evaluates the The preparation of financial statements in conformity with performance of substantially all of its investments IFRS requires the Board to make judgments, estimates onafair value basis.
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The estimates and associated assumptions are based on experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of determining the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
82 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts The Company meets the criteria as follows: Valuation of the investment portfolio The key area where estimates are significant to the the stated strategy of the Company is to deliver stable consolidated financial statements and have a significant returns to shareholders through a mix of income yield risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying and capital appreciation: amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial the Company provides investment management year is in the valuation of the investment portfolio.
services and has several investors who pool their funds The majority of assets in the investment portfolio are to gain access to infrastructure related investment valued on a discounted cash ow basis which requires opportunities that they might not have had access to assumptions to be made regarding future cash ows and individually: and the discount rate to be applied to these cash ows.
Refer the Company has elected to measure and evaluate to Note 7 for further details of the valuation techniques, the performance of all of its investments on a fair value significant inputs to those techniques and sensitivity of basis.
The fair value method is used to represent the the fair value of these investments to the assumptions Companys performance in its communication to the that have been made.
Inaddition, the Company reports fair value information internally Standards and interpretations issued but not to Directors, who use fair value as the primary yet effective measurement attribute to evaluate performance.
As at 31 March 2017, the following new or amended The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has standards and interpretations, which have not been all the typical characteristics of an investment entity and applied in these financial statements, had been issued continues to meet the denition in the standard.
This bythe International Accounting Standards Board IASB conclusion will be reassessed on an annual basis.
but are yet to become effective.
ii Assessment of investments as structured entities Disclosure initiative amendments to IAS7 Statement Astructured entity is an entity that has been designed so of Cash Flows effective for accounting periods that voting or similar rights are not the dominant factor in commencing on or after 1 January 2017. deciding who controls the entity.
Additional disclosures IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for accounting are required by IFRS 12 for interests in structured entities, periods commencing on or after 1 January 2018. whether they are consolidated or not.
The Directors have assessed whether the entities in which the Group invests IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers should be classied as structured entities and have effective for accounting periods commencing on or concluded that none of the entities should be classied after1 January 2018. as structured entities as voting rights are the dominant IFRS 16 Leases effective for accounting periods factor in deciding who controls these entities.
commencing on or after 1 January 2019. iii Assessment of consolidation requirements The Directors do not expect that the adoption of TheGroup holds significant stakes in the majority of the Standards and Interpretations listed above will its investee companies and must exercise judgment in have a material impact on the financial statements of the level of control of the underlying investee company the Consolidated Group in future periods, although that is obtained in order to assess whether the company IFRS 9 may impact the disclosure of certain Financial should be classied as a subsidiary.
The Group must also exercise judgment in whether a subsidiary provides investment-related services or activities and therefore should be consolidated or held at fair value through profit or loss.
Refer to significant accounting policy A Classication for further details.
During the year, the Company acquired four new subsidiary entities and a further 31 included within the Innis Group.
The Directors have assessed whether these entities provide investment-related services and have concluded that they should not be consolidated and that they should be held at fair value through profit or loss.
The adoption of certain accounting policies by the Group also requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates in determining the information to be disclosed in the financial statements.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 83 Governance and accounts significant accounting policies continued A Classication B Exchange differences i Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled Transactions entered into by the Group in a currency by the Company.
Control exists when the Company other than its functional currency are recorded at is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its the rates ruling when the transactions occur.
Foreign involvement with the subsidiary entity and has the currency monetary assets and liabilities are translated to ability to affect those returns through its power over the functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the the subsidiary entity.
In accordance with the exception balance sheet date.
Foreign exchange differences arising under IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the on translation to thefunctional currency are recognised Company only consolidates subsidiaries in the financial in the statement of comprehensive income.
statements if they are deemed to perform  assets and liabilities that are measured related services and do not meet the denition of an in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are investment entity.
Investments in subsidiaries that do not translated using the exchange rate at the date of meet this denition are accounted for as Investments at the transactions.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities fair value through profit or loss with changes in fair value denominated in foreign currencies that are stated recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in atfairvalue are translated to the functional currency the year.
The Directors have assessed all entities within using exchange rates ruling at the date the fair value the Group structure and concluded that 3i Infrastructure wasdetermined with the associated FX difference being Seed Assets GP Limited is the only subsidiary of the recognised within the unrealised gain or loss Company that provides investment-related services or on revaluation of the asset or liability.
This subsidiary has been consolidated with the Company to form the Group.
C Investment portfolio ii Associates Associates are those entities in which the Recognition and measurement Investments are Group has significant inuence, but not control, over the recognised and fide-recognised on a date where the financial and operating policies.
Investments that are held purchase or sale of an investment is under a contract as part of the Groups investment portfolio are carried whose terms require the delivery or settlement of in the balance sheet at fair value even though the Group the investment.
The Group manages its investments may have significant inuence over those entities.
with a view to proting from the receipt of investment income and obtaining capital appreciation from iii Joint ventures Interests in joint ventures that are changes in the fair value of investments.
Therefore, all held as part of the Groups investment portfolio are quoted investments and unquoted investments are carried in the balance sheet at fair value.
This treatment designated as at fair value through profit or loss upon is permitted by IFRS 11 and IAS 28, which allows interests initial recognition and subsequently carried in the held by venture capital organisations where those balance sheet at fair value.
All investments are initially investments are designated, upon initial recognition, recognised at the fair value of the consideration given as at fair value through profit or loss and accounted for and are subsequently measured at fair value, applying in accordance with IAS 39, with changes in fair value the Groups valuation policy.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income accounted for as expenses when incurred.
i Realised gains or losses on the disposal of investments are the difference between the fair value of the consideration receivable on disposal less any directly attributable costs and its fair value at the start of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
ii Net gains or losses on the revaluation of investments are the movement in the fair value of investments between the start and end of the accounting period, or the investment acquisition date and the end of the accounting period, converted into sterling using the exchange rates in force at the end of the period: and are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
84 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Income E Treasury assets and liabilities Investment income is that portion of income that is Short-term treasury assets and short and long-term directly related to the return from individual investments.
treasury liabilities are used to manage cash ows and It is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the overall costs of borrowing.
Financial assets and there will be an economic benefit and the income can liabilities are recognised in the balance sheet when the bereliably measured.
relevant Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
The following specic recognition criteria must be met before the income is recognised: i Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and cash ow statement comprise dividends from equity investments are recognised cash at bank, short-term deposits with an original in the statement of comprehensive income when maturity of three months or less and AAA rated money the Companys rights to receive payment have been market funds.
Interest receivable on cash and cash established with the exception of dividends paid equivalents is recognised on an accruals basis.
out of pre-acquisition reserves that are recognised by adjusting the cost of the equity investment upon ii Bank loans, loan notes and borrowings Loans and acquisition: borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration received, net of issue costs associated income from loans and receivables and debt held with the borrowings.
Where issue costs are incurred at fair value through profit or loss is recognised as it in relation to arranging debt finance facilities these accrues by reference to the principal outstanding and are capitalised and disclosed within Trade and other the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate receivables and amortised over the life of the loan.
After that exactly discounts the estimated future cash ows initial recognition, loans and borrowings are subsequently through the expected life of the financial asset to the measured at amortised cost using the effective interest assets carrying value or principal amount: method, which is the rate that exactly discounts the distributions from investments in Limited Partnerships estimated future cash ows through the expected life of are recognised in the statement of comprehensive the liabilities.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking into income when the Companys rights as a Limited account any issue costs and any discount or premium Partner to receive payment have been established: and onsettlement.
fees receivable represent amounts earned from iii Other financial assets Other financial assets in the investee companies on completion of underlying balance sheet comprise principally of restricted cash held investment transactions and are recognised on an on deposit in third-party bank accounts on behalf of the accruals basis once entitlement to the revenue has Mersey Gateway Bridge and A9 primary PPP projects.
The Company retains the right to replace these cash deposits for a letter of credit of the equivalent amount.
D Fees iv Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial i Fees Fees payable represent fees incurred in the instruments are used to manage the risk associated process of acquiring an investment and are measured on with foreign currency uctuations in the valuation of the the accruals basis.
investment portfolio and changes in interest rates on borrowings held by Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. an ii Advisory fee An annual advisory fee is payable to unconsolidated subsidiary.
This is achieved by the use 3iplc based on the Gross Investment Value of the Group.
of forward foreign currency contracts and interest rate The fee is payable quarterly in advance and is accrued swaps.
Such instruments are used for the sole purpose in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are of efficient portfolio management.
All derivative financial provided in Note 18. instruments are held at fair value through profit or loss.
iii Performance fee 3i plc is entitled to a performance fee based on the Adjusted Total Return per ordinary share generated in the period in excess of a performance hurdle subject to a high watermark requirement being exceeded.
The fee is payable annually in arrears and is accrued in the period it is incurred.
Further explanations are provided in Note 18. iv Finance costs Finance costs associated with loans and borrowings are recognised on an accruals basis using the effective interest method.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 85 Governance and accounts significant accounting policies continued Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially H Equity and reserves at fair value on the contract date and subsequently i Share capital Share capital issued by the Company re-measured to the fair value at each reporting date.
is recognised at the fair value of proceeds received and All changes in the fair value of derivative financial is credited to the stated capital account.
Direct issue instruments are taken to the statement of comprehensive costs net of tax are deducted from the fair value of the income.
The maturity prole of derivative contracts is proceeds received.
measured relative to the financial contract settlement ii Equity and reserves The stated capital account date of each contract and the derivative contracts are of the Company represents the cumulative proceeds disclosed in the financial statements as either current or recognised from share issues or new equity issued on non-current accordingly.
Realised gains over fair value on the conversion of warrants made by the Company net the settlement of derivative financial instruments are the of issue costs and reduced by any amount that has difference between the fair value of the consideration been transferred to retained reserves, in accordance receivable on disposal and the fair value at the start of with Jersey Company Law, in previous years.
Share the accounting period, converted into sterling using the capital is treated as an equity instrument, on the basis exchange rates in force at the date of disposal: and are that no contractual obligation exists for the Company recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
to deliver cash or other financial assets to the holder of the instrument.
The retained reserve incorporates F Other assets the cumulative retained profits of the Company after Assets, other than those specically accounted for the payment of dividends plus any amount that has under a separate policy, are stated at their consideration been transferred from the stated capital account of the receivable less impairment losses.
The carrying value of Company.
such assets or liabilities is considered to be approximate to their fair value.
All assets are reviewed at each balance iii Dividends payable Dividends on ordinary shares are sheet date to determine whether there is any indication recognised as a deduction from retained reserves in the of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets period in which the Companys obligation to make the recoverable amount is estimated based on expected dividend payment arises.
Any change in levels of impairment is recognised directly in the statement of I Income taxes comprehensive income.
An impairment loss is reversed Income taxes represent the sum of the tax currently at subsequent financial reporting dates to the extent that payable, withholding taxes suffered and deferred the assets carrying amount does not exceed its carrying tax.
Taxis charged or credited in the statement of value, had no impairment been recognised.
comprehensive income except to the extent that it relatesto an amount recognised in the statement G Other liabilities ofchanges in equity when it is recognised directly Liabilities, other than those specically accounted for inthisstatement.
under a separate policy, are stated based on the amounts The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit which are considered to be payable in respect of goods for the period.
This may differ from the profit included or services received up to the financial reporting date.
in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income The carrying value of other liabilities is considered to be because it excludes items of income or expense that approximate to their fair value.
are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
TheGroups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates and laws for each relevant tax jurisdiction in which the Company and its consolidated subsidiary operate that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the financial reporting date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used inthecomputation of taxable profit and is accounted forusing the balance sheet liability method.
86 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
