Governance and accounts Investment policy The Company aims to build a diversied portfolio of For most investments, the Company seeks to obtain equity investments in entities owning infrastructure representation on the board of directors of the investee businesses and assets.
The Company seeks investment company or equivalent governing body and in cases opportunities globally, but with a focus on Europe, North where it acquires a majority equity interest in a business, America and Asia.
that interest may also be a controlling interest.
The Companys equity investments will often comprise No investment made by the Company will represent share capital and related shareholder loans or other more than 25% of the Companys gross assets, including financial instruments that are not shares but that, in cash holdings, at the time of making the investment.
It combination with shares, are similar in substance.
is expected that most individual investments will exceed TheCompany may also invest in junior or mezzanine 50 million.
In some cases, the total amount required debtin infrastructure businesses or assets.
for an individual transaction may exceed the maximum amount that the Company is permitted to commit to a Most of the Companys investments are in unquoted single investment.
In such circumstances, the Company companies.
However, the Company may also invest in may consider entering into co-investment arrangements entities owning infrastructure businesses and assets with 3i Group or other investors who may also be whose shares or other instruments are listed on any stock significant shareholders, pursuant to which 3i Group and exchange, irrespective of whether they cease to be listed its subsidiaries or such other investors may co-invest on after completion of the investment, if the Directors judge the same financial and economic terms as the Company.
that such an investment is consistent with the Companys The suitability of any such co-investment arrangements investment objectives.
The Company will, in any case, will be assessed on a  basis invest no more than 15% of its total gross assets in other and would be subject to Board approval.
Depending on investment companies or investment trusts which are the size of the relevant investment and the identity of the listed on the Ofcial List.
relevant co-investor, such a co-investment arrangement The Company may also consider investing in other fund may be subject to the related party transaction provisions structures in the event that it considers, on receipt of contained in the Listing Rules and may therefore require advice from the Investment Adviser, that that is the most shareholder consent.
appropriate and effective means of investing, which The Companys Articles require its outstanding may be advised or managed either by the Investment borrowings, including any financial guarantees to support Adviser or a third party.
If the Company invests in another subsequent obligations, to be limited to 50% of the gross fund advised or managed by 3i Group, the relevant assets of the Group valuing investments on the basis proportion of any advisory or management fees payable included in the Groups accounts.
by the investee fund to 3i plc will be deducted from the annual advisory fee payable under the Investment In accordance with Listing Rules requirements, the Advisory Agreement and the relevant proportion of Company will only make a material change to its any performance fee will be deducted from the annual investment policy with the approval of shareholders.
performance fee, if payable, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
For the avoidance of doubt, there will be no similar set-off arrangement where any such fund is advised or managed by a third party.
102 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
