Glossary Item Definition Acquisition Strategy This identifies the scope for current acquisitions, further details can be found in Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives AIC The Association of Investment Companies is a United Kingdom trade association for the closed-ended investment company industry Corporate assets These are assets that provide services or access to essential assets for corporate counterparties.
The relationship between the infrastructure asset owner and the corporate counterparty is usually contractual, with prices set through a commercial negotiation or a market-clearing price.
See Section 2.1 The Infrastructure Market Corporate Group Refers to the Company and its Corporate Subsidiaries Corporate Subsidiaries The two Luxembourg subsidiaries and the English Limited Partnership, being HICL Infrastructure 1 S. a. r. l, HICL Infrastructure 2 S. a. r. l and Infrastructure Investments Limited Partnership Demand-based assets Infrastructure assets with revenues linked to the usage of the underlying assets.
See Section 2.1 The Infrastructure Market Directors Valuation Fair market valuation of the Groups investments, further details can be found in Section 3.2 Valuation of the Portfolio EPS Earnings per share FATCA The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act provisions of the US Hiring Incentives to Restore Employment Act FCA UK Financial Conduct Authority InfraRed Means InfraRed Capital Partners and its Group, more details of which can be found at www.
com Investment Adviser InfraRed Capital Partners Limited acting in its capacity as Investment Adviser to the Company pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement Investment Basis Proforma financial information on the basis that the Company consolidates the results of the Corporate Subsidiaries Investment Policy The Companys Investment Policy has not materially changed since IPO and can be found on the website at www.
com about-hicl  IPO Initial Public Offering, the act of offering the stock of a company on a public stock exchange for the first time.
HICL completed its IPO in March 2006 148 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Item Definition Lifecycle Concerns the replacement of material parts of an asset to maintain it over its concession life Market capitalisation A measure of the size of a company calculated by multiplying the number of shares in issue by the price of the shares NAV Net Asset Value, being the value of the investment companys assets, less any liabilities it has.
The NAV per share is the NAV divided by the number of shares in issue.
The difference between the NAV per share and the share price is known as the discount or premium Ongoing charges A measure of the regular, recurring costs of running an investment company, expressed as a percentage of NAV Operating company A company that owns and operates infrastructure assets Portfolio company Project Companies and Operating Companies to the Group that own or operate infrastructure assets, in which the Group has an investment PPP project Public-Private Partnership projects involving long-term contracts between a public sector client and a private company for the delivery of a service or facility for the use by the general public, public bodies, authorities or agencies usually in return for an availability payment.
See Section 2.1 The Infrastructure Market Project company An infrastructure project or concession with a defined expiry date, including a special purpose company or other entity formed with the specific purpose of undertaking an infrastructure project Regulated assets Infrastructure assets with monopolistic characteristics and which are subject to regulatory price controls.
See Section 2.1 The Infrastructure Market Revolving credit facility An acquisition facility provided by lenders, in the case of HICL, expiring in May 2019.
See Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives Scrip dividend An interim dividend received by investors in the form of new ordinary shares in lieu of a cash dividend The Company HICL Infrastructure Company Limited The Group HICL Infrastructure Company together with its subsidiaries HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 149 Directors & Advisers Directors Financial PR Ian Russell, CBE Chairman Tulchan Communications LLP Sarah Evans Date resigned 31 March 2017 85 Fleet Street Susie Farnon London EC4Y 1AE Simon Holden Date appointed 1 July 2016 UK Transfer Agent Frank Nelson Capita Registrars Kenneth D. Reid Date appointed 1 September 2016 The Registry Chris Russell 34 Beckenham Road Registrar Beckenham Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited Kent BR3 4TU Mont Crevelt House Helpline: 0871 664 0300 Bulwer Avenue Auditor St. Sampson KPMG Channel Islands Limited Guernsey GY2 4LH Glategny Court, Glategny Esplanade Administrator To Company, Company Secretary St Peter Port And Registered Office Guernsey, GY1 1WR Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited Broker East Wing, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques Canaccord Genuity Limited St Peter Port 9th Floor Guernsey GY1 3PP 88 Wood Street 44 1481 749 700 London EC2V 7QR Investment Adviser And Operator InfraRed Capital Partners Limited 12 Charles II Street London SW1Y 4QU 44 20 7484 1800 150 HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 Company ISA, NISA, PEP and SIPP status HICL Infrastructure Company Limited, a non-cellular The shares are eligible for inclusion in NISAs, ISAs and PEPs company limited by shares incorporated under the laws subject to applicable subscription limits provided that they of the Island of Guernsey with registration number 44185. have been acquired by purchase in the market, and they are permissible assets for SIPPs.
Investment Adviser IA and Operator InfraRed Capital Partners Limited authorised and regulated NMPI status by the UKs FCA is a wholly owned subsidiary of InfraRed Following the receipt of legal advice, the Board confirms that it Partners LLP which is owned by its senior management conducts the Companys affairs such that the Company would qualify for approval as an investment trust if it were resident in Company Secretary and Administrator the United Kingdom.
Aztec Financial Services Guernsey Limited It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue to Shareholders funds conduct its affairs in such a manner and that IFAs should 2.4bn as at 31 March 2017 therefore be able to recommend its shares to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules relating to Market capitalisation non-mainstream investment products.
2.7bn as at 31 March 2017 AIFMD status Investment Adviser and Operator Fees 1 The Company is a Guernsey-domiciled self-managed 1.1% per annum of the Adjusted Gross Asset Value of the non-EEA Alternative Investment Fund.
FATCA 1.0% from 750m up to 1.5bn 0.9% from 1.5bn up to The Company has registered for FATCA and has GIIN number 2.25bn X5FC1F.
831 and 0.8% above 2.25bn Investment policy 2 plus 1.0% of the value of new acquisitions The Companys investment policy is summarised in Section 2.3 Strategy & Objectives and can be found in full on the plus 0.1m per annum investment advisory fee Companys website.
No performance fee ISIN and SEDOL ISIN: GB00B0T4LH64 SEDOL: B0T4LH6 Fees relating to shareholder matters from underlying project companies are paid to the Group and not to Website the Investment Adviser.
com Notes: 1 Adjusted Gross Asset Value means fair market value, without deductions for borrowed money or other liabilities or accruals, and including outstanding subscription obligations.
2 Does not apply to acquisitions sourced from the InfraRed Group, or entities managed by it.
HICL Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017 151 Delivering Real Value.
Registered Address HICL Infrastructure Company Limited Registered number: 44185 East Wing Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port GY1 3PP Guernsey T 44 1481 749 700 E info@hicl.
com Registered Office: East Wing, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, GY1 3PP.
