ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
General information Wizz Air Holdings plc the Company is a public company incorporated in Jersey under the address 44 The Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE4 9WG.
The Company is managed from Switzerland.
The Company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group or Wizz Air provide low-cost, low-fare passenger air transportation services on scheduled short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes across Europe and the Middle East.
Accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the presentation of these consolidated financial statements are set out below.
Basis of preparation These consolidated financial statements consolidate those of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs and IFRS IC interpretations.
Based on the exemption provided in Article 105 11 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 the Company does not present its individual financial statements and related notes.
The financial statements are presented in Euros, which is the functional currency of all companies in the Group other than two dormant entities.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets, and financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with IFRS legislates the use of certain critical accounting estimates and requires management to exercise judgments in the process of applying the Group's accounting policies.
The areas involving a high degree of judgment or complexity or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in Note 4.
New standards and interpretations a Standards, amendments and interpretations effective and adopted by the Group The following new IFRSs and amendments are mandatory for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and have therefore been adopted by the Group as of 1 April 2016.
Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements accounting for acquisitions of interests in joint operations.
Amendment to IAS 16 and IAS 38, Property, Plant and Equipment and Intangible Assets clarifications of acceptable methods of depreciation and amortisation.
Annual improvements to IFRS 20122014 cycle requires disclosure of the judgments made by management in aggregating operating segments and clarifies that a reconciliation of segment assets must only be disclosed if segment assets are reported.
Amendment to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements disclosure initiative.
Amendment to IAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows disclosure initiative.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 81 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations continued b Standards early adopted by the Group There are no standards early adopted by the Group.
c Interpretations and standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group IFRS 9, Financial Instruments addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities.
The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014.
It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments.
IFRS 9 retains but simplifies the mixed measurement model and establishes three primary measurement categories for financial assets: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income or expense and fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 allows changes in the time value of options to be recognised in other comprehensive income, as opposed to the statement of comprehensive income under IAS 39.
For financial liabilities there were no changes to classification and measurement except for the recognition of changes in own credit risk in other comprehensive income, for liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss.
IFRS 9 relaxes the requirements for hedge effectiveness by replacing the bright line hedge effectiveness tests.
It requires an economic relationship between the hedged item and hedging instrument and for the hedged ratio to be the same as the one management actually uses for risk management purposes.
Contemporaneous documentation is still required but is different to that currently prepared under IAS 39.
The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 with early adoption permitted.
The Group is adopting IFRS 9 from 1 April 2017.
The key impact of the adoption will be that changes in the time value of hedges will be recognised in other comprehensive income as opposed to the statement of comprehensive income.
Changes in the time value of hedges were material in last two financial years and, given the volume of hedging activity of the Group, are expected to be material also in the future.
However, the size and the direction of these changes will depend on changes in market prices: therefore, it is not possible to make an estimate for the expected impact.
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers deals with revenue recognition and establishes principles for reporting useful information to users of financial statements about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entitys contracts with customers.
Revenue is recognised when a customer obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good or service.
The standard replaces IAS 18, Revenue and IAS 11, Construction Contracts and related interpretations.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017 and earlier application is permitted.
The Group will adopt IFRS 15 from 1 April 2018.
Based on the preliminary assessment of management, under IFRS 15 some ancillary revenue types will need to be recognised on the date of flight rather than the date of sale, as currently, which will result in a one-off reduction of revenues in the range of 67 million in the year of adoption.
IFRS 16, Leases effective for the accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019 addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of leases with the objective of ensuring that lessees and lessors provide relevant information that faithfully represents those transactions.
The standard supersedes IAS 17, Leases and is subject to EU endorsement.
The Group currently leases all of its aircraft under operating leases: therefore, IFRS 16 brings a very significant change for the Group.
The standard is not yet endorsed by the EU and therefore only a preliminary modelling assessment has been performed by management.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 82 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued New standards and interpretations continued c Interpretations and standards that are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the Group continued The following key issues were considered for the modelling: Year of adoption: Whether early adoption from 1 April 2018 will be an option available for the Group will depend on the timing of the EU endorsement.
In the current modelling, early adoption was not assumed.
The assumed date of application is 1 April 2019.
That is the date required by the standard.
Existing leases: The Group expects that all of its operating leases that will exist at the date of initial application would need to be reclassified under the new rules.
Considering all variations, the standard allows three methods for implementing the new rules for existing leases: a full retrospective approach, as per paragraph C5 a of the standard: and modified retrospective approaches, as per paragraph C5 b of the standard, with further variations permitted for the determination of the initial amount of the right-of-use asset, as per paragraphs C8 b i and C8 b ii, respectively.
These three methods were each modelled, assuming a consistent application to all leases existing at the date of initial application 1 April 2019.
Future aircraft: New aircraft scheduled to arrive from the beginning of 2019 are not yet financed.
For the purposes of this modelling it was assumed that aircraft deliveries in 2019 and beyond will also be financed in the form of operating leases and under terms similar to those that the Group most recently entered into.
Foreign exchange: Calculations were performed assuming an EUR USD FX rate of 1.08 for the date of initial application and not assuming any change to this rate during the year of initial application ending 31 March 2020.
Incremental rate of borrowing: The current incremental rate of borrowing of the Group for aircraft financing is estimated to be 4 per cent, and this rate was assumed also in these calculations in the second and third scenarios for the date of initial application.
The impact in the year of initial application can be summarised as follows: right-of-use assets would be recognised in the amount of 1.21.4 billion at the date of initial application, depending on the transition method used.
By the end of the year of initial application 31 March 2020 the balance would increase to 1.41.6 billion: lease liabilities would be recognised in the amount of 1.41.5 billion at the date of initial application, depending on the transition method used.
By the end of the year of initial application the balance would increase to 1.71.8 billion: retained earnings would be decreased by the range of 100 million maximum this applies both at the date of initial application and at the end of the year of initial application: and the impact on profits for the year of initial application will be a loss ranging between 5-30 million, depending on the transition method used.
In 20192020 the average age of the Groups fleet approximately five years will be around half of the average lease tenure of the fleet approximately ten years, which makes the earnings impact for the year of initial application relatively limited 10 million or below in two of the three transition scenarios.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 83 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are all entities controlled by the Company.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
In assessing control, potential voting rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are taken into account.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The results of all the subsidiaries are consolidated up to 31 March, which is the financial year end of the Company.
Intra-group balances and any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Going concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Group will continue in business for the foreseeable future.
This assumption is based on the Directors assessment of the Groups financial performance and position to date, together with a review of its forecasts, in light of the risks to which the Group is exposed.
Foreign currency The Groups presentational currency is the Euro.
The functional currency of all the Group entities with the exception of Dnieper Aviation LLC and Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC is the Euro.
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into functional currency at the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the statement of financial position date are translated into Euros at the exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income or expense.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and which are recognised at their historical cost are translated into Euros at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and which are stated at fair value are translated into Euros at exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.
The functional currency of Dnieper Aviation LLC and Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC is the Ukrainian Hryvnia UAH.
The results and financial position of all the Group entities that have a functional currency different from the presentational currency are translated into the presentational currency as follows: assets and liabilities for each statement of financial position presented are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement of financial position: income and expenses for each statement of comprehensive income are translated at monthly average exchange rates unless this average is not a reasonable approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated at the rate on the dates of the transactions : and all resulting exchange differences are recognised as a separate component of equity cumulative translation adjustments.
The below exchange rates were used for the translation of UAH into Euros in the respective financial years: 2017 2016 Closing rate 28.96 29.69 Average rate for the year 28.42 29.26 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 84 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities The Group classifies its financial assets and liabilities in line with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement into the following categories: Description in the statement of financial position Category Non-current assets Restricted cash Loans and receivables Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables Current assets Trade and other receivables Loans and receivables Financial assets available for sale Available-for-sale assets Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss Restricted cash Loans and receivables Cash and cash equivalents Loans and receivables Non-current liabilities Borrowings Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Convertible debts Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Current liabilities Trade and other payables Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Borrowings Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Convertible debt Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Derivative financial instruments Fair value through profit or loss The classification of financial assets depends on the purpose for which the assets were acquired.
Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
a Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial assets held for trading.
A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Assets in this category are classified as current assets.
Derivatives assets or liabilities are also categorised as held for trading unless they are designated as hedges.
b Loans and receivables These are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the statement of financial position date, which are classified as non-current assets.
The Groups loans and receivables comprise trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash in the statement of financial position.
c Available-for-sale financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categories.
They are included in non-current assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within twelve months of the statement of financial position date.
Available-for-sale financial assets are subsequently carried at fair value.
d Other financial liabilities measured at amortised costs Other financial liabilities are non-derivative financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They are included in current liabilities, except for maturities greater than twelve months after the statement of financial position date that are classified as non-current liabilities.
The Groups other financial liabilities comprise trade and other payables and interest-bearing loans and borrowings including convertible debt in the statement of financial position.
The Group invests excess cash in a conservative way, primarily in short-term time deposits and money market funds.
Management does not, in the short term, plan to have held-to-maturity investments.
The recognition and measurement criteria are described in the relevant accounting policy section.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 85 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value.
The gain or loss on remeasurement to fair value is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income within financial income or expenses.
However, where derivatives qualify for hedge accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged see below.
The Group enters into foreign exchange and jet fuel price hedging transactions to minimise the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and fuel price on the Group.
Both types of hedging transactions are cash flow hedges under IAS 39.
Cash flow hedges Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of the variability in cash flows of a recognised asset or liability, or a highly probable forecast transaction, the effective part of any unrealised gain or loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve within other comprehensive income.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income or expenses.
The associated cumulative gain or loss on the effective part is removed from other comprehensive income and recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in the respective operating expense line s in the same period or periods as the hedged forecast transaction.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, or the entity revokes designation of the hedge relationship but the hedged forecast transaction is still expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss at that point remains in other comprehensive income and is recognised in accordance with the above policy when the hedged transaction is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to take place, the cumulative unrealised gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income immediately, net of tax, within the cash flow hedging reserve.
Before expiry, the fair value of an option comprises: i its intrinsic value, being a function of the difference between contracted and market or spot prices: and ii its time value, being the difference between the fair value and the intrinsic value at any point in time.
Subject to hedge effectiveness, any increase or decrease in the intrinsic value of the hedging instrument is taken to equity within other comprehensive income or expense.
However, any increase or decrease in the time value of the hedging instrument is recognised immediately in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income or expense.
This reflects the fact that variations in the time value of an option are required to be excluded from the hedge relationship in accordance with IAS 39, Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Accordingly: Initial recognition: the open position on the derivative hedging instrument is recorded as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position at fair value.
Subsequent remeasurement of unexpired options: i the effective portion of changes in the intrinsic element of the fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income, ii changes in the time value element of the fair value, or the ineffective portion, if any, are recorded as financial income or expense in the statement of comprehensive income.
The realised gains or losses on the hedging instrument are recorded against the respective operating expense line s in the statement of comprehensive income.
The ineffective portion is determined in line with IAS 39, applying the 80125 per cent.
The ineffective part of changes in fair value, if any, is recorded as financial income or expense in the statement of comprehensive income.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 86 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Derivative financial instruments and hedging continued Hedging with non-derivatives The Group uses its selected financial assets denominated in US Dollars to hedge highly probable future expenses in US Dollar.
The Group applies hedge accounting to part of its non-derivate financial assets, in the interest of reducing the amount of unrealised foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from the periodic revaluation of these assets.
The accounting treatment of non-derivatives designated as hedging instruments is identical to cash flow hedges with derivatives, that is: the unrealised gains or losses on hedging instruments are recorded as an asset or liability in the statement of financial position at fair value, and the effective portion of changes in the fair value is recorded in other comprehensive income: and the realised gains or losses on the hedging instruments are recorded against the respective expense line s in the statement of comprehensive income.
Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are stated at their amortised cost using the effective interest rate method less impairment losses.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the trade and other receivables account, and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income within other expenses.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against other expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other receivables also comprise insurance claims related to events that are covered by insurance contracts.
The Group recognises the income in the financial statements only from those insurance claims which, based on managements judgment, are virtually certain to be received by the Group.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits repayable on demand or which mature within three months of inception, less any overdrafts repayable on demand.
Cash held in money market funds is also included in cash and cash equivalents.
Cash and cash equivalents do not include restricted cash.
Cash and cash equivalents are netted only when right of offset has been obtained.
Restricted cash Restricted cash represents cash deposits held by the banks that cover letters of credit, issued by the same bank, to certain suppliers.
Restricted cash is split between non-current and current assets depending on the maturity period of the underlying letters of credit.
Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Trade and other payables comprise balances payable to suppliers, authorities and employees.
Interest-bearing borrowings Interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as a financial expense over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate basis.
Financial expenses also include withholding tax paid on the interest if according to the loan agreement the payment of withholding tax is the liability of the Group.
Convertible debt Convertible debt instruments that can be converted to share capital at the option of the holder, where the number of shares issued does not vary with changes in their fair value, are accounted for as compound instruments.
Transaction costs that relate to the issue of a compound instrument are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to the allocation of proceeds.
The liability component is recognised initially at the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an equity conversion option.
The equity component of the compound instrument is calculated as the excess of the issue proceeds over the value of the liability component.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 87 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Financial assets and liabilities continued Classification of compound instruments issued by the Group Compound instruments issued by the Group are treated as equity i. e. forming part of Shareholders funds only to the extent that they meet the following two conditions: a they include no contractual obligations upon the Company or Group as the case may be to deliver cash or other financial assets or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are potentially unfavourable to the Company or Group : and b where the instrument will or may be settled in the Companys own equity instruments, it is either a non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Companys own equity instruments or it is a derivative that will be settled by the Company exchanging a fixed amount of cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.
To the extent that this definition is not met the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Companys own shares, the amounts presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude amounts in relation to those shares.
Where a compound instrument that contains both equity and financial liability components exists these components are separated by recognising the liability at fair value and accounted for individually under the above policy.
The finance cost on the financial liability component is correspondingly higher over the life of the instrument.
Finance payments associated with financial liabilities are dealt with as part of finance expenses.
Finance payments associated with compound instruments that are classified in equity are dividends and are recorded directly in equity.
Impairment of financial assets Impairment losses are recognised on financial assets carried at amortised cost where there is objective evidence that a loss has been incurred.
The amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If, subsequently, the amount of the impairment loss decreases, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event that occurred after the impairment was recognised, the appropriate portion of the loss is reversed.
Both impairment losses and reversals are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as components of financial income or expenses, except in the case of impairment of available-for-sale financial assets where the impairment and its reversal may be charged to other comprehensive income under certain circumstances.
Current trade and other receivables are discounted where the effect is material.
Non-financial assets and liabilities Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment.
Depreciation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis to write off cost to residual value over the estimated useful economic lives of each part of an item of property, plant and equipment.
In the case of certain aircraft maintenance assets, the useful economic life of the asset can be defined in terms of flight hours or flight cycles, and in this case the depreciation charge is determined based on the actual number of flight hours or flight cycles.
The estimated useful lives of the relevant asset categories are as follows: Land and buildings three to five years, being the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term Aircraft maintenance assets two to seven years, being the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term Aircraft parts seven years Fixtures and fittings three years The residual values and useful lives are re-assessed annually.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 88 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-financial assets and liabilities continued Assets received free of charge In certain cases the Group receives assets free of charge.
These are treated as non-cash items in the statement of cash flows.
Advances paid for aircraft pre-delivery payments PDP Pre-delivery payments PDP are paid by the Group to aircraft and engine manufacturers for financing the production of the ordered aircraft or spare engine as determined by the contractual terms.
Such advance payments for aircraft or spare engines are recognised at cost and classified as property, plant and equipment in the statement of financial position.
The amount is not depreciated.
The Group may enter into sale and leaseback arrangements with lessors to finance future aircraft or spare engine deliveries.
These arrangements are structured such that the right and the commitment to purchase the aircraft or spare engine are assigned to the lessor only on the date of delivery a delivery date assignment : as such, the recognition and classification of the PDP balance does not change when the sale and leaseback contracts are signed.
On the delivery of the aircraft or spare engine the lessor pays the full purchase price of the asset to the manufacturer and the Group receives from the manufacturer a refund of the PDPs paid.
At this moment the fixed asset is fide-recognised from the statement of financial position and any gain or loss arising is transferred to the statement of comprehensive income as an operating income or expense.
In some instances PDPs are paid in the name of the Group by the lessors directly to the aircraft manufacturer.
These PDPs are also recognised by the Group in the statement of financial position as advances paid for aircraft and as received loans until the delivery of the aircraft.
In the statement of cash flows these PDPs and loans are treated as non-cash items and are eliminated both from advances paid for aircrafts refunds of advances paid for aircraft and commercial loan lines.
Advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets engine fleet our agreements FHA Advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets represent advance payments made in relation to heavy maintenance scheduled to be performed in the future for the definition of heavy maintenance see the accounting policy section on maintenance.
Such advance payments are made by the Group particularly to the engine maintenance service provider under fleet hour agreements FHA.
The balance of such assets is re-categorised into aircraft maintenance assets at the time when the aircraft maintenance asset is recognised in respect of the same component and the same heavy maintenance event.
This is when the component no longer meets the conditions set out in the lease agreement.
Advances paid for aircraft maintenance are not depreciated.
In the statement of cash flows the FHA payments are shown under the purchase of maintenance assets line together with other aircraft maintenance asset purchases.
Intangible assets Intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
Web development costs are capitalised to the extent they are expected to generate future economic benefits and meet the other criteria described in IAS 38, Intangible Assets.
Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates.
All other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
Amortisation is charged to the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful economic lives of intangible assets.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: Software licences three to eight years Web and other software development costs three to five years Inventories Inventories mainly spares are purchased for internal use and are stated at cost unless impaired or at net realisable value if any items are to be sold or scrapped.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of the business less the estimated selling expense.
Cost is based on the average price method and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 89 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Non-financial assets and liabilities continued Emissions Trading Scheme As of 1 January 2012 the scope of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme 2008 101 EC EU ETS covers airlines.
The Group is required to formally report its annual emissions to the relevant authorities and surrender emission allowances EUAs equivalent to the emissions made during the year.
Surrendered allowances are a combination of the free allowances granted by the authorities and allowances purchased by the Group from other parties.
The Group follows the cost method of booking the allowances: the free allowances have nilcost value so therefore are not recognised as an asset: and allowances purchased in the market are recorded at the purchase price in inventory.
The Group is given free allowances by the competent authorities, and the net economic impact to the Group is therefore represented by the shortfall between the actual carbon emitted and the free allowances given to the Group for that period.
The shortfall is recorded at forward prices as a cost.
Application of this accounting treatment means that the statement of comprehensive income and the statement of financial position reflect the net economic impact and are not grossed up to reflect the full obligation.
Deferred interest The Group enters into sale and leaseback agreements to finance future aircraft or spare engine deliveries.
In some cases it also enters into arrangements to finance the PDPs of such deliveries.
Interest accrued on loans to finance the PDPs on aircraft or spare engines is initially recognised under property plant and equipment advances paid for aircraft.
When the leased aircraft or spare engine is delivered, the PDP interest balance is reclassified within the statement of financial position from property, plant and equipment into deferred interest.
From this point forward the interest is amortised to the statement of comprehensive income during the term of the respective lease contract.
The Group recognises in the deferred interest line also the effect of the discounting adjustment of non-current receivables.
Impairment of non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Groups assets are reviewed at each statement of financial position date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
The recoverable amount is the higher of an assets fair value less costs to dispose and value in use.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Employee benefits Share based payment transactions The Group operates an equity-settled share option programme that allows Group employees to acquire shares in the Company.
The options are granted by the Company.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted at any measurement date so that the cumulative expense to date reflects the actual number of share options that are expected to vest.
The share award programme allows the Directors of the Company to acquire shares in the Company at nominal value.
The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which there are restrictions in place in respect of the transfer of the award shares by the Directors.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability please see further details of aircraft maintenance provisions in the accounting policy section on maintenance.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 90 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Revenue Revenue comprises the invoiced value of flight seats and ancillary revenues.
Passenger ticket revenue arises from the sale of flight seats and is recognised net of government taxes in the period in which the service is provided, that being when the airplane has departed.
Where charges levied by airports or government authorities on a per passenger basis represent a government tax in fact or in substance, then such amounts are presented on a net basis in the statement of comprehensive income netted between revenue and airport, handling and en-route charges lines.
Unearned revenue represents flight seats sold but not yet flown and is included in deferred income.
Refunds made to passengers are recorded as reductions in revenue.
Ancillary revenue arises from the sale of other services made by the Group and from commissions earned in relation to services sold on behalf of other parties.
Revenues from other services comprise mainly baggage charges, booking payment handling fees, airport check-in fees, fees for various convenience services priority boarding, extended legroom and reserved seats, loyalty programme membership fees, and hotel and other services sold by the tour operator unit of the Group.
Commission revenue arises in relation to the sale of onboard catering, accommodation, car rental, travel insurance, bus transfers, premium calls and co-branded credit cards.
Ancillary revenues are recognised as revenue on the date that the right to receive consideration occurs, which is the date when the underlying service was provided.
This, depending on the type of service, might be either the date of sale, the date of flight or in the case of membership fees over the period when customers take benefit of a paid membership.
Leases Finance leases If the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of an asset are substantially transferred to Wizz Air then it is accounted for as a finance lease.
The following five criteria can indicate such situation: there is transfer of ownership of the asset at the end of lease term: there is option to purchase the asset at sufficiently below fair value: therefore, it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised: the lessee holds the assets for the major part of the assets' economic life: the asset is so special that it can be used only by the lessee: and the present value of minimum lease payments is substantially all of the fair value of the asset.
Management uses the above criteria as guidelines for its analyses: however, the substance of a transaction is always considered during the assessment.
Management assesses each leasing contract individually at initial recognition based on the above discussed criteria.
Finance leases are capitalised at the leases commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Operating leases Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases.
Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Lease incentives received are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as an integral part of the total lease expense.
Sale and leaseback transactions The Group enters into transactions whereby it assigns to a third party the right to acquire new aircraft or spare engines.
On delivery of the aircraft or spare engine, the Group will lease the aircraft or spare engine back through an operating lease from the same party.
Any gain arising on disposal, where the price that the aircraft is sold for is above fair value, is recognised initially in deferred income and then amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the asset.
Maintenance Aircraft maintenance provisions For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, the Group is contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a certain condition or to compensate the lessor based on the actual condition of the aircraft and its major components upon return.
Provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
This is when the respective aircraft component no longer meets the lease re-delivery conditions.
The provision is used through the completion of a maintenance event such that the component again meets the re-delivery conditions.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 91 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Maintenance continued Aircraft maintenance assets Heavy maintenance relates to the overhaul of engines and associated components, the replacement of life limited parts, the replacement of landing gears and the non-routine airframe inspection and rectification works.
Under normal operating conditions heavy maintenance relates to work expected to be performed no more frequently than every two to four years.
The cost of heavy maintenance is capitalised and recognised as a tangible fixed asset and classified as aircraft maintenance assets at the earlier of: a the time the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met see above under aircraft maintenance provisions : or b when maintenance, including enhancement, is carried out.
Other maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
Such maintenance assets are depreciated over the period the Group benefits from the asset which is the shorter of: a the estimated period until the next date when the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met: or b the end of the assets operational life: or c the end of the lease.
For engines and associated components, depreciation is charged on the basis of flight hours or cycles, while for other aircraft maintenance assets depreciation is charged evenly over the period the Group expects to derive benefit from the asset.
Components of newly leased aircraft such as life limited parts and engines are not accounted for as separate assets, and the inherent benefit of these assets which are utilised in the period from inception of the lease until the time the assets no longer meet the lease re-delivery condition is reflected in the payments made to the lessor over the life of the lease.
Aircraft maintenance assets are non-monetary items.
Non-Euro amounts are translated on inception to Euro and are not retranslated.
The recognition of aircraft maintenance assets against provisions for other liabilities and charges in the statement of financial position is a transaction not involving cash flows.
In the statement of cash flows the spending on these assets is presented as purchase of aircraft maintenance assets in the period when cash actually flows out of the Group.
This can happen either before or after the recognition of the asset, depending on the exact facts and circumstances associated with the relevant asset or assets.
Please refer also to the property, plant and equipment section of accounting policies.
Other receivables from lessors maintenance reserve Payments for aircraft and engine maintenance, as stipulated in the respective operating lease agreements, are made to the lessors as a security for the performance of future heavy maintenance works.
The payments are recorded as receivables from the lessors until the respective maintenance event occurs and the reimbursement with the lessor is finalised.
Any payment that is not expected to be reimbursed by the lessor is recognised within operating expenses aircraft rentals in the statement of comprehensive income.
Other The Group enters into agreements with maintenance service providers that guarantee the maintenance of major components at a rate defined in the contract, the prime example being fleet hour agreements FHAs for aircraft engines.
Such FHAs cover the cost of both scheduled and unscheduled engine overhauls.
FHA payments are accounted for as follows: Payments for scheduled maintenance work are recognised as advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets until the maintenance asset for the respective engine overhaul is created.
After this point any further FHA payments are either used to settle previously established aircraft maintenance provisions to the extent a provision for the respective FHA contract exists or, in the absence of a provision, are added to the amount previously capitalised within property, plant and equipment as advances paid for aircraft maintenance assets.
Payments that are made to provide guaranteed coverage for the performance of unscheduled maintenance events are considered as insurance payments and are expensed as incurred.
Please refer to the property, plant and equipment section of accounting policies.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 92 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Supplier credits The Group receives certain assets cash contributions or aircraft spares for nil consideration in connection with its acquisition of aircraft and of major aircraft parts.
Cash contributions or aircraft spares received are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial position.
The corresponding credits are recognised as income, spread equally across the shorter of useful economic life and the lease term of the respective aircraft.
In certain cases the concessions receivable from a component manufacturer are linked to the Groups commitment to purchase a number of new aircraft with the manufacturers components installed on those.
In such case, in substance, the right to the concessions is earned by the Group through the delivery of the respective aircraft.
In certain cases the concessions might be delivered by the component manufacturer later than the date when the respective aircraft is taken by the Group.
If so, then the right earned for the concession is recognised at the date of the aircraft delivery as part of trade and other receivables, with a corresponding credit to deferred income.
Following this, the credits are amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset, decreasing aircraft rental expenses.
Net financing costs Net financing costs comprise interest payable, finance charges on finance leases, interest receivable on funds invested and foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.
Interest income and interest payable are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.
Non-cash elements of financial income and expenses are eliminated from the statement of cash flows as an adjusting item whereas cash elements, e. g. realised foreign exchange gains and losses, are included in the statement of cash flows.
Share capital Ordinary Shares are classified as equity.
Qualifying transaction costs directly attributable to the issuing of new shares are debited to equity, reducing the share premium arising on the issue of shares.
Taxation Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Income tax is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted at the statement of financial position date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the statement of financial position date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that sufficient future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 93 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 2.
Accounting policies continued Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that are shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
Underlying profit after tax is a non-statutory profit measure introduced by the Company to help investors better understand the trading performance of the Group.
It is a measure used by the Company also in determining the variable remuneration of senior management see Short-term Incentive Plan or annual bonus in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Underlying profit excludes the effect of exceptional items and of unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses.
These items, for various reasons, had significant impact particularly during the 2015-2017 financial years.
Going forward the Company expects that it will not incur exceptional items of recurring nature so there would be no difference between IFRS and underlying earnings.
Segment reporting Operating and reportable segments The Group has two reportable segments: the airline and the tour operator business units, marketed under the Wizz Air and Wizz Tours brand names, respectively.
Wizz Air sells flight tickets and related services to external customers and, to a smaller extent, to Wizz Tours.
Wizz Tours sells travel packages to external customers covering the network of Wizz Air.
Management information is provided to the senior management team, which in the context of IFRS 8 Operating segments is the Groups Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM.
Resource allocation decisions are made by the CODM for the benefit of the route network as a whole, rather than for individual routes within the network.
The performance of the network is assessed primarily based on the operating profit or loss for the period.
Financial risk management Financial risk factors The Group is exposed to market risks relating to fluctuations in commodity prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates.
The objective of financial risk management at Wizz Air is to minimise the impact of commodity price, interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations on the Group's earnings, cash flows and equity.
To manage commodity and foreign exchange risks, Wizz Air uses various derivative financial instruments, including foreign currency and commodity zero-cost collar contracts.
Risk management is carried out by the treasury department under policies approved by the Board of Directors.
The Board provides written principles for overall risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, fuel price risk, credit risk, use of derivative financial instruments, adherence to hedge accounting, and hedge coverage levels.
The Board has mandated the Audit Committee of the Board to supervise the hedging activity of the Group and the compliance with the policies approved by the Board.
Risk analysis Market risks Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and commitments that are denominated in a currency other than the Euro.
The foreign currency exposure of the Group is significant for two reasons: i only a small portion of the Groups revenues are denominated in or linked to the US Dollar while a significant portion of the Groups expenses are US Dollar denominated, including fuel, aircraft leases, maintenance reserves and aviation insurance: and ii there are various currencies in which the Group has significantly more revenues than expenses, primarily the British Pound GBP and to a smaller extent - the Polish Zloty PLN.
The Group chooses the Euro USD foreign currency rate as the major underlying foreign currency pair in its foreign currency rate hedging strategies.
The main objective is to cover the Groups ongoing US Dollar cash flow requirements.
The Groups maximum hedge coverage level is 85 per cent.
of the total anticipated US Dollar purchases hedged by the time the respective quarter on a monthly rolling forward basis is reached.
This maximum target hedge coverage level was 75 per cent.
until January 2017 when it was increased to 85 per cent.
as a result of the revision of the Groups Hedging Policy in January 2017.
These levels were not always reached during the current or prior years.
The new Hedging Policy defines also the hedging of the GBP Euro foreign currency rate exposure, as a new measure of risk management.
The Groups maximum target coverage on this currency pair is 60% on a rolling twelve-month basis, but no transaction was made until 31 March 2017.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 94 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Foreign currency risk continued The table below analyses the financial instruments by the currencies of future receipts and payments as follows: EUR USD Other Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 55.0 138.0 15.7 208.7 Financial assets available for sale - - 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial assets - 10.1 - 10.1 Cash 757.8 0.4 15.8 774.0 Restricted cash 154.7 0.9 0.3 155.9 Total financial assets 967.5 149.4 32.8 1,149.7 Financial liabilities Borrowings 5.9 - - 5.9 Convertible debt 27.1 - - 27.1 Trade and other payables 135.6 35.6 26.5 197.7 Derivative financial liabilities - 1.9 - 1.9 Total financial liabilities 168.6 37.5 26.5 232.6 EUR USD Other Total At 31 March 2016 million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 65.9 121.0 10.8 197.7 Financial assets available for sale - - 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial assets - 1.7 - 1.7 Cash 615.0 6.2 24.4 645.6 Restricted cash 100.6 0.9 0.1 101.6 Total financial assets 781.5 129.8 36.3 947.6 Financial liabilities Borrowings 6.4 - - 6.4 Convertible debt 27.2 - - 27.2 Trade and other payables 138.2 18.8 20.3 177.3 Derivative financial liabilities - 17.6 - 17.6 Total financial liabilities 171.8 36.4 20.3 228.5 As explained in the paragraph on foreign currency in the accounting policy, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that is currencies other than the Euro are translated into Euros at the statement of financial position date at the exchange rates ruling at that date, and foreign exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as financial income of expense.
If the net balance of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies is high then this translation process can result in material volatility to financial income and expense, and thus to earnings.
Historically the Group had a high balance of net monetary assets denominated in US Dollars and this resulted in significant unrealised foreign exchange gains as in 2015 and losses as in 2016.
By the end of the 2016 financial year the US Dollar monetary asset-liability position of the Group became materially balanced: therefore, starting from financial year 2017 there are no material foreign exchange gains or losses incurred by the Group.
This balanced position is not visible from the table above that shows a net asset balance of US Dollar denominated financial instruments of 111.9 million in 2017.
The two positions can be reconciled as follows: the 2017 balance of trade and other receivables denominated in US Dollars includes 22.1 million that has been designated for hedge accounting and therefore its foreign currency revaluation is not impacting financial income or expenses see under foreign exchange hedge with non-derivatives later in this Note 3: and at 31 March 2017 the Group had provisions of 84.5 million denominated in US Dollars as part of the total 113.7 million balance reported in Note 29.
Provisions are not financial instruments and therefore their balance is not included in the table above but are subject to foreign currency revaluation.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 95 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Interest rate risk The Group has future commitments under certain operating lease contracts that are based on floating interest rates.
The floating nature of the interest charges on the operating leases exposes the Group to interest rate risk.
Interest rates charged on convertible debt liabilities and on short and long-term loans to finance the deposits of aircraft are not sensitive to interest rate movements as they are fixed until maturity.
The Group is also exposed to interest rate risk in relation to the valuation of financial instruments as they are carried at fair value.
The Group has not used financial derivatives to hedge its interest rate risk during the year.
The Directors may in the future consider hedging interest rate risk to reduce the potential Group earnings volatility arising from fluctuations in interest rates.
Commodity risks One of the most significant costs for the Group is jet fuel.
The price of jet fuel can be volatile and can directly impact the Groups financial performance.
The Groups maximum hedge coverage is 70 per cent.
on a rolling twelve-month basis and 60 per cent.
These represent 10 percentage point increase versus earlier levels as a result of the revision of the Groups Hedging Policy in January 2017.
The average hedge coverage in F17 was 51 per cent.
Hedge transactions during the periods The Group uses non-derivatives and zero-cost collar instruments to hedge its foreign exchange exposures and uses zero-cost collar and outright cap instruments to hedge its jet fuel exposures.
The time horizon of the hedging programme with derivatives is usually up to a maximum of 18 months: however, this horizon can be exceeded at the Boards discretion.
The volume of hedge transactions that expired during the periods was as follows: a Foreign exchange hedge USD versus EUR : US$333.5 million 2016: US$339.0 million.
Hedge year-end open positions At the end of the year and the prior year the Group had the following open hedge positions: a Foreign exchange hedge with derivatives: The fair value of the open positions was a 5.8 million gain 2016: 4.8 million recognised within other comprehensive income, current assets or current liabilities, respectively.
The notional amount of the open positions was US$297 million 2016: US$313.5 million.
b Foreign exchange hedge with non-derivatives: The notional amount of the open positions was US$238.5 million 2016: US$190.5 million.
Non-derivatives are existing financial assets that hedge highly probable foreign currency cash flows in the future and therefore act as a natural hedge.
At the end of the year out of its non-derivative financial assets position the Group had US$23.6 million designated for hedge accounting 2016: US$34.5 million.
The rest of the open positions relate to expected PDP refunds 2017: US$214.9 million: 2016: US$156.0 million for which no hedge accounting is applied.
c Fuel hedge: The fair value of the open positions was a 2.5 million gain 2016: 11.4 million loss recognised within other comprehensive income and current assets or liabilities, respectively.
The notional amount of the open positions was 598,000 metric tons 2016: 449,000 metric tons.
In relation to these open hedge positions the cash flows will occur and the hedge relationships will impact the statement of comprehensive income during the year ending 31 March 2018.
Hedge effectiveness During the year covered by these financial statements, based on the evaluation of the Group, the hedging transactions did not give rise to material ineffectiveness under IAS 39.
As explained below in the credit risk section, in the opinion of the management none of the hedge counterparties had a material change in their credit status that would have influenced the effectiveness of the hedging transactions.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 96 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Risk analysis continued Market risks continued Sensitivity analysis The table below shows the sensitivity of the Groups profits to various markets risks for the current and the prior year.
2017 2016 Difference in Difference in profit after tax profit after tax in million in million Fuel price sensitivity Fuel price $100 higher per metric ton -67.0 -56.6 Fuel price $100 lower per metric ton 67.0 56.6 FX rate sensitivity USD EUR FX rate 0.05 higher meaning EUR stronger 29.8 28.0 FX rate 0.05 lower -29.8 -28.0 FX rate sensitivity GBP EUR FX rate 0.03 higher meaning EUR stronger -7.7 -8.6 FX rate 0.03 lower 7.7 8.6 FX rate sensitivity PLN EUR FX rate 0.15 higher meaning EUR stronger -4.1 -4.1 FX rate 0.15 lower 4.1 4.1 Interest rate sensitivity EUR Interest rate is higher by 100 bps 2.7 2.3 Interest rate is lower by 100 bps -2.7 -2.3 The interest rate sensitivity calculation considers the effects of varying interest rates on the interest income on bank deposits and on the expense from floating lease rentals.
The impact of these macro-economic variables on equity is the same as the impact on profit after tax, except for the fuel price and for the USD EUR FX rate variables where the equity impact would also include the change in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments that are open at the year end.
The fair value of these instruments was provided by the hedge counterparties and management has not calculated the theoretical value of these instruments for other scenarios.
Liquidity risks Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and the availability of funding.
The Group has an adequate liquidity position.
In previous years, the Group invested excess cash EUR in a conservative way, primarily in AAA-rated money market funds and also in short-term time deposits with high quality bank counterparties.
In F17, as EUR yields went deeper into negative territory, management supported by the Board decided to withdraw all funds from money market funds and placed it in plain vanilla deposit structures with various counterparties.
The table below analyses the Groups financial assets and liabilities receivable or payable either on cash base or net-settled derivative financial assets and liabilities into relevant maturity groupings based on the remaining period at the statement of financial position date to the contractual maturity date.
The amounts disclosed in the table below are the contractual undiscounted cash flows except for derivatives where fair values are presented.
Therefore, for certain asset and liability categories the amounts presented in this table can be different from the respective amounts presented in the statement of financial position.
Between three Within three months Between one and More than five months and one year five years years Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 124.8 11.8 69.9 4.5 211.0 Financial assets available for sale 1.0 - - - 1.0 Derivative financial assets 2.8 7.2 0.1 - 10.1 Cash 774.0 - - - 774.0 Restricted cash 0.1 1.0 48.9 105.9 155.9 Total financial assets 902.7 20.0 118.9 110.4 1,152.0 Financial liabilities Borrowings 0.3 0.8 4.0 3.3 8.4 Convertible debt - 2.1 29.5 - 31.6 Trade and other payables 197.7 - - - 197.7 Derivative financial liabilities 0.1 0.9 0.9 - 1.8 Financial guarantees 645.6 - - - 645.6 Total financial liabilities 843.7 3.8 34.4 3.3 885.1 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 97 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Liquidity risks continued Between three Within three months Between one and More than five months and one year Total five years years At 31 March 2016 million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 104.3 22.2 72.3 0.7 199.5 Financial assets available for sale - 1.0 - - 1.0 Derivative financial assets 0.8 0.9 - - 1.7 Cash 645.6 - - - 645.6 Restricted cash 0.9 0.7 18.6 81.4 101.6 Total financial assets 751.6 24.8 90.9 82.1 949.4 Financial liabilities Borrowings 0.3 0.8 4.0 4.3 9.4 Convertible debt - 2.1 31.7 - 33.8 Trade and other payables 177.3 - - - 177.3 Derivative financial liabilities 12.6 3.8 1.2 - 17.6 Financial guarantees 711.2 - - - 711.2 Total financial liabilities 901.4 6.7 36.9 4.3 949.3 The Group has obligations under financial guarantee contracts as detailed in Note 31.
The Company provided guarantees to third parties to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiary in relation to aircraft lease contracts on a regular basis, and from 2017 also in relation to a contract for the provision of public services in Hungary.
These possible obligations are disclosed in the table above, with the shortest maturity under the financial guarantees line.
Management does not expect that any payment under these guarantee contracts will be required by the Company.
Other financial guarantee contracts relate to hedging, and convertible notes.
The respective liabilities are reflected under the appropriate line of the financial liabilities part of the table above.
Since the liability itself is already reflected in the table, it would not be appropriate to include also the financial guarantee provided by another Group entity for the same obligation.
Credit risk The Groups exposure to credit risk from individual customers is limited as the large majority of the payments for flight tickets are collected before the service is provided.
However, the Group has significant banking, hedging, aircraft manufacturer and card acquiring relationships that represent counterparty credit risk.
The Group analysed the creditworthiness of the relevant business partners in order to assess the likelihood of non-performance of liabilities due to the Group.
The credit quality of the Groups financial assets is assessed by reference to external credit ratings published by Standard & Poors or similar institutions of the counterparties as follows: AAA AA A AOther Unrated Total At 31 March 2017 million million million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables - - 1.6 - 2.0 205.1 208.6 Derivative financial assets - - 6.5 2.1 1.5 - 10.0 Financial assets available for sale - 1.0 - - - - 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 - 622.5 100.0 50.7 0.3 774.0 Restricted cash - - 155.9 - - - 155.9 Total financial assets 0.5 1.0 786.4 102.1 54.2 205.4 1,149.6 AAA AA A AOther Unrated Total At 31 March 2016 million million million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables - - - - 18.6 179.1 197.7 Derivative financial assets - - 1.6 0.1 - - 1.7 Financial assets available for sale - 1.0 - - - - 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 547.5 - 96.8 - - 1.3 645.6 Restricted cash - - 101.0 - - 0.6 101.6 Total financial assets 547.5 1.0 199.4 0.1 18.6 181.0 947.6 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 98 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 3.
Financial risk management continued Credit risk continued The Other column in 2017 includes 52.2 million balance out of which 50.0 million is bank deposit with one of the banking partners of the Group, that has BBB rating.
The analysis demonstrates the shift in the Groups cash management strategy from money-market funds MMF towards bank deposits during the 2017 financial year.
While at the beginning of the year most of Groups free cash was held in AAA-rated MMFs, by the end of the year due to pressures in the yield-environment these funds were fully moved into bank deposits, most of these being A-rated.
From the unrated category within trade and other receivables the Group has 110.3 million 2016: 97.3 million receivables from different aircraft lessors in respect of maintenance reserves and lease security deposits paid see also Note 18.
However, given that the Group physically possesses the aircraft owned by the lessors and that the Group has significant future lease payment obligations towards the same lessors see Note 32, management does not consider the credit risk on maintenance reserve receivables to be material.
Based on the information above management does not consider the counterparty risk of either party being material and therefore no fair value adjustment was applied to the respective cash or receivable balances.
Fair value estimation The Group classifies its financial instruments based on the technique used for determining fair value into the following categories: Level 1: Fair value is determined based on quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2: Fair value is determined based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Fair value is determined based on inputs that are not based on observable market data that is, on unobservable inputs.
The following table presents the Groups financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value at 31 March 2017.
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total million million million million Assets Financial assets available for sale 1.0 - - 1.0 Derivative financial instruments - 10.1 - 10.1 1.0 10.1 - 11.1 Liabilities Derivative financial instruments - 1.9 - 1.9 - 1.9 - 1.9 Financial assets available for sale represents a unit-linked insurance invested in government bonds by the insurer.
These government bonds are traded in an active market: therefore, it falls into the Level 1 category.
The Group measures its derivative financial instruments at fair value, calculated with a technique by the banks involved in the hedging transactions that falls into the Level 2 category.
All the other financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost.
Capital risk management The Groups objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Groups ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for Shareholders, to provide benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
The capital structure of the Group consists of financial liabilities, cash and cash equivalents and equity.
Financial liabilities primarily consist of commercial loans relating to aircraft financing and convertible debt as disclosed in Notes 23 and 24 respectively.
Equity comprises issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity.
Since the financial year beginning on 1 April 2007, the Groups growth has been financed entirely out of cash from operations and commercial debt with financial institutions.
The overall capital risk management strategy remains unchanged from prior years.
Management reviews the Groups cost of capital on an ongoing basis as well as the risks associated with each capital instrument and makes recommendations to the Board for approval.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 99 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 4.
Critical accounting estimates and judgments made in applying the Groups accounting policies a Maintenance policy For aircraft held under operating lease agreements, provision is made for the minimum unavoidable costs of specific future obligations created by the lease at the time when such obligation becomes certain.
The amount of the provision involves making estimates of the cost of the heavy maintenance work that is required to discharge the obligation, including any end of lease costs.
The cost of heavy maintenance is capitalised and recognised as a tangible fixed asset and classified as an aircraft maintenance asset at the earlier of: a the time the lease re-delivery condition is no longer met: or b when maintenance, including enhancement, is carried out.
The calculation of the depreciation charge on such assets involves making estimates for the future utilisation of the aircraft and in the case of engines also of the future operating conditions of the engine.
b Hedge and derivative accounting Fair value of derivatives namely the open position of cash flow hedges is determined by the contracting financial institutions as per their industry practice.
As required, the fair values ascribed to those instruments are verified also by management using high-level models.
Further, the effectiveness of hedges is tested both prospectively and retrospectively to determine the appropriate accounting treatment of hedge gains and losses.
c Net presentation of government taxes and other similar levies The Groups accounting policy stipulates that where charges levied by airports or government authorities on a per passenger basis represent a government tax in fact or in substance, then such amounts are presented on a net basis in the statement of comprehensive income netted between the revenue and the airport, handling and en-route charges lines.
Management reviews all passenger-based charges levied by airports and government authorities to ensure that any amounts recovered from passengers in respect of these charges are appropriately classified within the statement of comprehensive income.
Given the variability of these charges and the number of airports and jurisdictions within which the Group operates, the assessment of whether these items constitute taxes in nature is an inherently complex area, requiring a level of judgment.
d Accounting for membership fees The Group operates the Wizz Discount Club WDC loyalty program for its customers.
Under this program customers can pay an annual membership fee, with the key benefit that during most of the twelve-month membership period they get access to special fares that are lower than the standard ticket prices.
The Group recognises the revenue from the membership fees following the pattern of customers taking benefits from the program.
This pattern is determined by management once a year, on the basis of the actual distribution of member flights in the preceding twelve months, and then applied prospectively.
It is unlikely that there would be a material change in the pattern within one year, because the underlying fact patterns for customers to buy membership, to buy tickets and then to fly those tickets are reasonably stable.
The WDC program was introduced by the Group in 2012 and had insignificant impact initially.
Management used to recognise membership revenues on a straight-line basis in the twelve-month membership period.
In the last few years the number of members and thus also the level of membership revenues picked up, and it also became visible that the actual pattern how customers take the membership benefits is significantly different from the straight-line method.
Therefore, starting from 2017 management started to apply a revenue recognition pattern matching the historic pattern of how customers were taking the benefits of the program.
This change in estimates, combined with some other changes related to this area, resulted in 7.9 million additional revenue for 2017.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 100 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 5.
Segment information Reportable segment information The chief operating decision maker CODM of the Group, as defined in IFRS 8 Operating segments is the senior management team of the Group.
The Group has two reportable segments: the airline and the tour operator business units, marketed under the Wizz Air and Wizz Tours brand names, respectively.
The Group classified the tour operator business as a separate reportable segment starting from 1 April 2016.
The Wizz Tours brand was launched already in 2013 but initially the travel packages were sold by a third-party tour operator partner.
During this period the financial impact of the tour operator activity was insignificant.
The Group started its own tour operator activity in October 2015.
Therefore, no comparative information is reported for the prior period.
2017 2017 2017 Airline Tour operator Group million million million Total revenue 1,562.0 18.1 1,581.0 Less: inter-segment revenue 8.8 - 8.8 Revenue from external customers 1,553.1 18.0 1,571.2 Operating expenses 1,314.5 18.9 1,324.5 Operating profit loss 247.4 0.8 246.7 Profit loss after tax 246.7 0.9 246.0 Underlying profit loss after tax 226.1 0.9 225.3 Financial income, financial expenses, depreciation and amortisation, and income tax expenses reported for the Group in the period are all related to the airline business, except for an aggregate of 54,000 of financial expenses and income tax expense incurred by the tour operator business, which explains the 0.1 million difference between operating loss and loss after tax in the table.
There were no material non-cash items in the period for the tour operator business.
Entity-wide disclosures Products and services Revenue from external customers can be analysed by groups of similar services as follows: 2017 2016 million million Airline passenger ticket revenue 909.3 894.9 Airline ancillary revenue 643.9 534.2 Tour operator package revenue 18.1 - Total revenue from external customers 1,571.2 1,429.1 Airline ancillary revenues arise mainly from baggage charges, booking payment handling fees, airport checkin fees, fees for various convenience services priority boarding, extended legroom and reserved seats, loyalty programme membership fees, and from commission on the sale of on-board catering, accommodation, car rental, travel insurance, bus transfers, premium calls and co-branded cards, all directly attributable to the lowfare business.
Geographic areas Revenue from external customers can be analysed by geographic area as follows: 2017 2016 million million Jersey country of domicile - - EU 1,421.3 1,322.9 Other non-EU 149.9 106.2 Total revenue from external customers 1,571.2 1,429.1 Revenue was allocated to geographic areas based on the location of the first departure airport on each ticket booking.
Major customers The Group derives the vast majority of its revenues from its passengers and sells most of its tickets directly to the passengers as final customers rather than through corporate intermediaries tour operators, travel agents or similar.
Therefore, the Group does not have any major corporate customers.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 101 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 6.
Operating profit Auditors remuneration 2017 2016 000 000 Fees payable to Companys auditors for the audit of the parent company and consolidated financial statements 251 225 Fees payable to the Companys auditors and their associates for other services Audit of financial statements of subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 39 39 Other services relating to taxation 446 436 Audit-related assurance and transaction services - - All other services - 18 Total remuneration of auditors 736 718 Inventories Inventories totalling 3.3 million were recognised as an expense in the year 2016: 3.8 million.
Staff numbers and costs The average monthly number of persons employed during the year, including Non-Executive Directors but excluding subcontracted staff such as rented pilots, analysed by category, was as follows: Number of persons 2017 2016 Non-Executive Directors 9 7 Crew and pilots 2,481 2,028 Administration and other staff 235 215 Total staff number 2,725 2,250 The aggregate compensation of these persons was as follows: 2017 2016 million million Wages and salaries 77.9 68.6 Pension costs 4.5 4.2 Social security costs other than pension 10.5 8.4 Share based payments 1.0 1.2 Subtotal 93.9 82.4 Subcontracted staff costs rented pilots 19.0 19.0 Total staff costs 112.9 101.4 8.
Directors emoluments 2017 2016 million million Salaries and other short-term benefits 1.5 2.1 Social security costs 0.1 0.2 Share based payments 0.4 0.3 Directors services and related expenses 0.2 0.2 Total Directors emoluments 2.2 2.8 2017 2016 Directors receiving emoluments 10 9 The number of Directors who in respect of their services received LTIP share options under long-term incentive schemes during the year 1 1 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 102 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 9.
Exceptional items and underlying profit Exceptional items Exceptional items are disclosed separately in the financial statements where it is necessary to do so to provide further understanding of the financial performance of the Group.
They are material items of income or expense that have been shown separately due to the significance of their nature or amount.
In the 2017 and 2016 financial years all items classified by the Group as exceptional related to financial income or expenses.
In the 2017 financial year the Group had a net exceptional income of 18.8 million, consisting of: i exceptional gain of 14.3 million relating to the change in time value of open hedge positions, particularly on fuel caps: and ii exceptional income of 4.5 million relating to closing of fuel cap deals.
According to the contracts the fuel caps had their expiry dates in the second half of the financial year October 2016 to February 2017 however they were sold in order to enable the Group to enter into new deals zero cost collars at more favourable rates, without breaching the fuel hedge coverage limits set in the Hedging Policy of the Group.
The net 4.5 million gain consisted of time value gain of 16.8 million coming from the reversal of time value losses previously accumulated on these instruments, the writing off of option fee costs of 12.4 million, and sale proceeds of 0.2 million.
In the 2016 financial year the Group had an exceptional expense of 16.3 million, consisting of: i exceptional expense of 25.0 million relating to the change in time value of open hedge positions, particularly on fuel caps: and ii exceptional income of 8.7 million relating to a realised foreign exchange gain arising on a one-off replacement of US$75.6 million bank deposits behind collaterals with Euro deposits.
These items were used by management in the determination of the non-GAAP underlying profit measure for the Group see below.
Underlying profit 2017 2016 million million Profit for the period 246.0 192.9 Adjustments exclusions : Unrealised foreign exchange gain loss 1.9 14.7 Exceptional items net gain loss 18.8 16.3 Sum of adjustments 20.7 31.0 Underlying profit after tax 225.3 223.9 On top of the exceptional items explained above, unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses are also excluded from the calculation of underlying profit.
These are non-cash translation differences that arise primarily on the revaluation of the net US Dollar monetary asset position of the Group, that used to be material until 2016.
The unrealised loss of 14.7 million in 2016 related primarily to the conversion of US$75.6 million collaterals into Euros.
This transaction alone resulted in an 8.7 million realised foreign exchange gain on one hand explained above among exceptional items and a 12.4 million unrealised foreign exchange loss on the other hand the latter being the reversal of the unrealised gains recognised on these assets since their initial recognition.
That is, the net foreign exchange impact of this conversion in 2016 was a 3.7 million loss all included in the adjustments in the table above.
By the end of the 2016 financial year the US Dollar monetary asset-liability position of the Group became materially balanced: therefore, starting from financial year 2017 there are no material movements in this area.
The tax effects of the adjustments made above are insignificant.
Net financing income and expense 2017 2016 million million Interest income 0.3 1.0 Ineffective hedge gain 0.3 1.0 Financial income 0.6 2.0 Interest expense Convertible debt 1.2 1.6 Finance lease 0.5 0.4 Other 2.3 0.7 Premium of expired fuel cap deals 9.0 5.3 Financial expenses 13.0 8.0 Foreign exchange gain loss Realised 0.7 2.9 Unrealised 1.9 14.7 Net foreign exchange gain loss 2.6 11.8 Net exceptional financial income expense Note 9 18.8 16.3 Net financing income expense 9.1 34.1 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 103 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 10.
Net financing income and expense continued Interest income and expense contain interest on financial instruments and, under the Other category the effect of the initial discounting of long-term deposits and the later unwinding of such discounting.
The fuel caps premium of 9.0 million in 2017 and 5.3 million in 2016 relate to the option fees for fuel caps expired in the periods these were paid in the 2015 financial year.
Out of the unrealised foreign exchange loss of 14.7 million in 2016 12.4 million was caused by the replacement of US Dollar bank deposits behind collaterals with Euro deposits.
This is because the unrealised foreign exchange gain recognised on these assets until March 2015 had to be reversed due to their fiderecognition see also in Note 9.
Income tax expense Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income 2017 2016 million million Current year corporate tax 2.6 2.3 Other income based taxes 5.6 5.4 Deferred tax 1.6 0.8 Total tax charge 9.8 8.5 The Company has a tax rate of 7.8 per cent.
The tax rate relates to Switzerland, where the Company is tax resident.
The current tax charge for the year is different to the standard rate of corporation tax of 7.8 per cent.
The difference is explained below.
Reconciliation of effective tax rate 2017 2016 million million Profit before tax 255.8 201.4 Tax at the corporation tax rate of 7.8 per cent.
20.0 15.7 Effect of different tax rate of subsidiaries versus the parent company 15.8 12.6 Other income based foreign tax 5.6 5.4 Total tax charge 9.8 8.5 Effective tax rate 3.8% 4.2% The Company had no taxable income.
Substantially all the profits of the Group in 2017 and 2016 were made by Wizz Air Hungary Kft, the airline subsidiary of the Group, and substantially all the tax charges presented in this Note were incurred by this entity.
Other income based foreign tax represents the innovation contribution and the local business tax payable in Hungary in 2017 and 2016 by the Hungarian subsidiaries of the Group, primarily Wizz Air Hungary Kft.
Hungarian local business tax and innovation contribution are levied on an adjusted profit basis.
Recognised in the statement of other comprehensive income 2017 2016 million million Current year corporate tax - - Other income based taxes - - Deferred tax - 0.1 Total tax charge - 0.1 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 104 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to equity holders of the Company by the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue during each period.
2017 2016 Profit from the year, million 246.0 192.9 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 57,254,581 53,344,145 Basic earnings per share, EUR 4.30 3.62 There were also 44,830,503 Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2017 see Note 28.
These shares are non-participating, i. e. the profit attributable to them is nil.
Therefore, these shares are not included in the basic earnings per share calculation above.
Diluted earnings per share Diluted earnings per share is calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue with the weighted average number of Ordinary Shares that could have been issued in the respective year as a result of the conversion of the following convertible instruments of the Group: Convertible Shares see Note 28 : Convertible Notes see Note 24 : and employee share options see Note 27 vested share options are included in the calculation.
The profit for the year has been adjusted for the purposes of calculating diluted earnings per share in respect of the interest charge relating to the debt which could have been converted into shares.
2017 2016 Profit for the year, million 246.0 192.9 Interest expense on convertible debt net of tax, million 1.2 1.6 Profit used to determine diluted earnings per share, million 247.2 194.5 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares in issue 57,254,581 53,344,145 Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible instruments 69,514,785 73,208,656 Weighted average number of Ordinary Shares for diluted earnings per share 126,769,366 126,552,801 Diluted earnings per share, EUR 1.95 1.54 Proforma earnings per share The proforma earnings per share is a fully diluted non-IFRS measure defined by the Company, calculated as follows: 2017 2016 Underlying profit for the year, million 225.3 223.9 1 Interest expense on convertible debt, million 1.2 1.6 Profit used to determine proforma earnings per share, million 226.5 225.4 2 Number of shares in issue at year end 102,235,474 101,752,674 3 Adjustment for assumed conversion of convertible debt instruments 24,246,715 24,246,715 Adjustment for assumed conversion of employee share options 288,700 765,390 Fully diluted number of shares for proforma earnings per share 126,770,889 126,764,779 Proforma earnings per share, EUR 1.79 1.78 1 Interest expense on convertible debt is lower in 2016 because of the refund of interest withholding tax incurred in earlier periods.
2 The issued share number includes also the 44.8 million Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2017 2016: 44.8 million.
See Note 28 for share capital.
3 Interest outstanding on Convertible Notes in issue at year end is not taken into account for conversion because it is more likely to be paid in cash than converted into shares as it was the case also in the past.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 105 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 12.
Earnings per share continued Proforma earnings per share continued The calculation of the proforma underlying EPS is different from the calculation of the IFRS-diluted EPS measure in the following: for earnings, the underlying profit for the year was used see Note 9, as opposed to the statutory IFRS profit for the year: and for the fully diluted number of shares the year-end position was taken rather than the weighted average for the year.
The proforma EPS measure was introduced by the Company to better reflect the underlying earnings and the underlying equity structure, particularly to remove the distortion caused by the special conversion restrictions existing for convertible debt until the IPO in March 2015.
The latter issue was relevant last in 2015.
Since the 2016 financial year the same instruments were in place both during the year and at the end of the year: therefore, the fully diluted share number was materially the same in the diluted and proforma EPS calculations.
Most of this increase was related to the delivery of various spare engines from IAE.
Additions to aircraft maintenance assets were 69.9 million 2016: 41.1 million.
The increase is due to the fact that there were significantly more engine-related new assets created in 2017 because: i there were more engines becoming out of condition for LLP replacement than in 2016: ii in 2016 the Company revised its engine maintenance plan combined with a new IAE FHA agreement see the 2016 report for details and as a result only a few engines became out of condition for shop visit in that period instead most of these became out of condition in 2017: and iii the Group has a few engines that require second shop visit and these all became out of condition and partly already went through the shop visit in 2017.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 106 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 13.
Property, plant and equipment continued Land and buildings includes the following amounts where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: 2017 2016 million million Cost from capitalised finance lease 7.5 7.5 Accumulated depreciation 1.8 1.2 Net book amount 5.7 6.3 14.
Intangible assets Software licences and web development million Cost At 1 April 2015 8.5 Additions 4.6 Disposals 0.6 At 31 March 2016 12.5 Additions 7.2 Disposals 0.9 At 31 March 2017 18.8 Accumulated amortisation At 1 April 2015 5.3 Amortisation charge for the year 2.0 Disposals 0.5 At 31 March 2016 6.8 Amortisation charge for the year 2.6 Disposals 0.9 At 31 March 2017 8.5 Net book amount At 31 March 2017 10.3 At 31 March 2016 5.7 15.
Tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax liabilities recognised Provisions for Advances paid for other liabilities Property, plant aircraft maintenance and charges and equipment assets Other Total million million million million million At 1 April 2015 1.7 1.3 0.7 0.4 4.1 Charged credited to: Profit or loss 0.4 0.1 0.7 0.4 0.8 Other comprehensive income - - - - - At 31 March 2016 2.1 1.4 1.4 - 4.9 Charged credited to: Profit or loss 0.1 1.1 0.2 0.6 1.6 Other comprehensive income - - - - At 31 March 2017 2.2 2.5 1.2 0.6 6.5 Less than one year - - - 0.6 0.6 Greater than one year 2.2 2.5 1.2 - 5.9 Deferred tax assets recognised Hedging reserve recognised in OCI Total million million At 1 April 2015 0.7 0.7 Charged to: Profit or loss - - Other comprehensive income 0.5 0.5 At 31 March 2016 0.2 0.2 Charged to: Profit or loss - - Other comprehensive income 0.2 0.2 At 31 March 2017 - - Less than one year - - Greater than one year - - Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 107 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 15.
Tax assets and liabilities continued Unrecognised deferred tax assets Until 31 March 2010 Wizz Air Hungary was Hungarian tax resident and up to this date had accumulated a 30.0 million tax loss in Hungary.
This balance remained unchanged at 31 March 2017.
This loss can be utilised only to offset profits generated under Hungarian tax residency.
The Group does not expect to have profit generated under Hungarian tax residency in the foreseeable future and therefore no deferred tax asset is recognised in this respect.
Subsidiaries The Group has the following subsidiaries: Country of Class of Percentage Financial incorporation Principal activity shares held held year end Subsidiary undertakings Wizz Air Hungary Kft Hungary Airline operator Ordinary 100 31 March Cabin Crew Professionals Sp.
z o. o. Poland Crew company Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Air Bosnia Bosnia and Crew company Ordinary 100 31 December Herzegovina Wizz Air Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland Dormant Ordinary 100 31 March Wizz Air Netherland Holding B. V. Netherlands Dormant Ordinary 100 31 March Dnieper Aviation LLC Ukraine Dormant Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC Ukraine Dormant Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Tours Kft.
Hungary Online tour operator Ordinary 100 31 March Wizz Aviation Professionals Moldova Crew company Ordinary 100 31 December Wizz Air Polska Sp.
z o. o. has been under solvent liquidation since 2012.
Wizz Air Ukraine Airlines LLC discontinued airline operations in 2015.
Wizz Aviation Professionals was registered in January 2017.
Its purpose is to provide crew services to Wizz Air Hungary in the territory of Moldova.
Certain subsidiaries have a financial year end different from the Groups financial year due to the requirements of local legislation.
Inventories 2017 2016 million million Aircraft consumables 13.0 10.6 Emission trading scheme purchased allowances 11.9 7.0 Total inventories 24.9 17.6 During the year remnant stock with the book value of 0.2 million was written off to maintenance expenses 2016: nil.
Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 million million Non-current Receivables from lessors 67.3 68.6 Other receivables - 2.6 Non-current trade and other receivables 67.3 71.2 Current Trade receivables 48.5 57.5 Other receivables from lessors 44.6 28.7 Other receivables 2.5 4.6 Total current other receivables 47.1 33.3 Less: provision for impairment of other receivables - - Other current receivables net 47.1 33.3 Prepayments, deferred expenses and accrued income 45.8 35.7 Current trade and other receivables 141.4 126.5 Total trade and other receivables 208.7 197.7 Receivables from lessors both current and non-current represent the deposits provided by Wizz Air to lessors as security in relation to the lease contracts and in relation to the funding of future maintenance events.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 108 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 18.
Trade and other receivables continued Impairment of trade and other receivables 2017 2016 million million Impaired receivables other receivables - - Allowances on impaired receivables other receivables - - After considering all of the available objective evidence, the Group made full impairment for all receivables that are overdue by more than 60 days.
All receivables are due within 60 days.
Financial assets available for sale 2017 2016 million million Unit-linked insurance serving as security deposit 1.0 1.0 Total financial assets available for sale 1.0 1.0 Financial assets available for sale represent a unit-linked insurance product which is invested in government bonds by the insurer.
This insurance serves as a security for the acquirer bank which collects card payments for the Group.
The Group was required to place a security deposit of 300 million Hungarian Forints approximately one million EUR behind this insurance.
Derivative financial instruments 2017 2016 million million Assets Non-current derivatives Cash flow hedges 0.1 - Current derivatives Cash flow hedges 10.0 1.7 Total derivative financial assets 10.1 1.7 Liabilities Non-current derivatives Cash flow hedges 0.8 1.2 Current derivatives Cash flow hedges 1.1 16.4 Total derivative financial liabilities 1.8 17.6 The derivative financial instruments represent cash flow hedges see also Note 3.
The full value of a hedging derivative is classified as a current asset or current liability if the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than twelve months.
The cash flow hedges expiring in 2017 had an ineffective portion of 0.3 million 2016: 1.0 million.
The net position of assets and liabilities does match the cash flow hedging reserve in the statement of financial position because: i the hedging reserve does not include the time value of open options, only the intrinsic value: and ii hedging with non-derivatives has an impact on the hedging reserve.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 109 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 21.
Deferred interest 2017 2016 million million Non-current Deferred PDP interest 2.6 3.7 Deferred interest expense 2.1 2.3 4.7 6.0 Current Deferred PDP interest 1.2 1.2 Total deferred interest 5.9 7.2 Deferred interest expense represents the deferred initial discount adjustments calculated for non-current receivables.
Deferred PDP interest is the deferred part of PDP interest expenses incurred on leased aircraft or spare engines.
Such interest relates to aircraft or spare engine PDP payments financed by third parties, and is initially recognised under property, plant and equipment advances paid for aircraft.
When the leased aircraft or spare engine is delivered, PDP interest is reclassified to deferred interest expense.
It is then amortised on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset and the amortisation charge is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as aircraft rental expense.
Restricted cash 2017 2016 million million Non-current financial assets 154.7 100.0 Current financial assets 1.2 1.6 Total restricted cash 155.9 101.6 Restricted cash comprises cash in bank, against which there are letters of credit issued or other restrictions in place governing the use of that cash, resulting from agreements with aircraft lessors or other business partners.
Restricted cash is excluded from cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow statement.
The increase versus 2016 was related to letters of credit issued to lessors for maintenance reserves and lease security deposits.
Restricted cash during the 2017 financial year was held mainly on current account in Euros, earning no interest.
Borrowings 2017 2016 million million Non-current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 5.3 5.9 Total non-current borrowings 5.3 5.9 Current liabilities Finance lease liabilities 0.6 0.5 Total current borrowings 0.6 0.5 Total borrowings 5.9 6.4 Finance lease liabilities relate to an aircraft flight simulator asset and a maintenance hangar building leased by the Group.
2017 2016 million million Gross finance liabilities minimum lease payments No later than one year 1.0 1.0 Later than one year and no later than five years 4.0 4.0 Later than five years 3.3 4.3 8.3 9.3 Future finance charges on finance lease liabilities 2.4 2.9 Present value of finance lease liabilities 5.9 6.4 2017 2016 million million Present value of finance liabilities No later than one year 0.6 0.5 Later than one year and no later than five years 0.6 2.5 Later than five years 4.7 3.4 Present value of finance lease liabilities 5.9 6.4 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 110 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 24.
Convertible debt 2017 2016 million million Non-current financial liabilities 26.8 26.9 Current financial liabilities 0.3 0.3 Total convertible debt 27.1 27.2 Convertible debt is Convertible Notes held by Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP Indigo.
Principal and any accrued interest on the Convertible Notes are convertible into Ordinary Shares in Wizz Air Holdings Plc at conversion factors in the range of 1.01.5 for one share.
Such Ordinary Shares issued as a result of conversion in certain cases might be subject to restrictions on voting and dividend rights.
Until the notes are converted, interest on the notes is payable in cash with a coupon rate of interest of 8 per cent.
per annum, twice a year in February and in August.
Convertible Notes are guaranteed by Wizz Air Hungary Kft see Note 31.
For more information about the Groups exposure to interest rate risk, see Note 3.
Trade and other payables 2017 2016 million million Current liabilities Trade payables 72.1 46.2 Other trade payables 7.2 6.4 Accrued expenses 118.4 124.7 Total trade and other payables 197.7 177.3 26.
Deferred income 2017 2016 million million Non-current financial liabilities Deferred income 107.9 96.6 Current financial liabilities Unflown revenue 260.0 207.7 Other 20.9 17.3 280.9 225.0 Total deferred income 388.8 321.6 Non-current deferred income represents the value of benefit for the Group coming from concessions cash credits and free aircraft components received from aircraft and certain component suppliers, that will be recognised as a credit an aircraft rentals expenses decreasing item on a straight-line basis over the lease term of the respective asset.
Current deferred income represents the value of tickets paid by passengers for which the flight service is yet to be performed and the current part of the value of supplier credits received.
Employee benefits Share based payments The share based payment charge in the financial statements for the year relates to three types of instruments that are in issue at 31 March 2017: share awards issued to Directors of the Board during 2006-2013, and employee share options issued i during 2005-2015 under the 2005 International Employee Share Option Plan ESOP and ii in July 2015 and 2016 under the 2014 Employee Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP of the Group.
The awards and options are classified as equity-settled share based payments.
The Company issues new shares for any options exercised, irrespective of the method of exercise.
The fair value of the awards and options is recognised as staff cost over the estimated vesting period with a corresponding charge to equity.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 111 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Employee benefits continued Share based payments continued The expenses other than social security recognised in relation to these instruments were the following: 2017 2016 million million Director share awards - 0.1 ESOP options 0.4 0.4 LTIP options 0.6 0.7 Total share based payments charge 1.0 1.2 Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP Share options issued during the financial year Terms and conditions: Restricted Performance Options Options Number of options 30,000 218,770 Exercise price nil nil Vesting period 3 years 3 years Termination 10 years 10 years There are no individual performance conditions set for the employees to exercise their options after the threeyear vesting period other than that the employee must be in employment with one of the Group entities until and on the date of exercise of the options.
For the Performance Options the performance conditions are set as follows, with 50 per cent.
weighting for each: total shareholder return TSR of the Group relative to the TSR of certain selected European airlines over the three-year period following the award: and absolute growth in underlying, fully diluted earnings per share of the Group, measured over the period from 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019.
The percentage of Performance Options that will vest will be determined on a pro-rata basis payout rate to the extent that the target levels for these performance conditions will be met by the Group.
The fair value of options granted was determined by using the Black-Scholes model, resulting in 17.89 per share.
The total cost of the grant was determined based on: i the fair value of options: ii the number of options expected to vest: and iii the estimated payout rate for Performance Options.
Share options in issue The number of LTIP share options in issue at year end is as follows: Restricted Performance Options Options Outstanding at the beginning of the year 30,750 201,648 Granted during the year 30,000 218,770 Exercised during the year - - Forfeited during the year 5,500 95,845 Outstanding at the end of the year 55,250 324,573 Exercisable at the end of the year - - Employee Share Option Plan ESOP Share options issued during the financial year There were no share options issued either during the year or in the prior year.
The last options under the ESOP were issued in January 2015.
There are no individual performance conditions set for the employees to exercise their options after the threeyear vesting period other than that the employees must be in employment with one of the Group entities until and on the date of exercise of the options.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 112 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 27.
Employee benefits continued Share based payments continued Employee Share Option Plan ESOP continued Share options in issue The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options are as follows: 2017 2016 Weighted Weighted average 2017 average 2016 exercise price Number exercise price Number of options of options Outstanding at the beginning of the year 5.15 1,025,390 4.11 1,667,446 Granted during the year - - - - Exercised during the year 2.76 482,800 2.51 642,056 Forfeited during the year 2.00 13,890 - - Outstanding at the end of the year 7.41 528,700 5.15 1,025,390 Exercisable at the end of the year 2.55 288,700 2.74 765,390 The range of exercise prices on options outstanding at the year end was 2.5013.68 2016: 2.0013.68.
At the end of the financial year, the outstanding options had a weighted average outstanding contractual life of two years and eight months 2016: four years and seven months.
Non-Executive Director share award programme 371,832 shares were awarded to Directors during 20062013.
Of these shares 174,082 were granted to persons who were no longer a Director of the Company at 31 March 2017.
The shares were awarded subject to restrictions such as the Directors may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge, exchange, encumber or dispose of any of the award shares for a period of three years or until an IPO, whichever is later.
These restrictions expired for all award shares by July 2016.
Taxation Under the terms of each of the three programmes all taxes payable on share options and awards are the liability of the recipients of these benefits.
However, in certain cases the Company or one of its subsidiaries has a legal obligation to pay the employer social security on the income realised by the recipients.
To the extent the additional social security obligations can be estimated, the Group makes a provision for these already during the vesting period of the instruments.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 113 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 28.
Capital and reserves continued Ordinary Shares The holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Convertible Shares In March 2015, linked to the listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange, certain convertible loans and notes including accrued interest were converted into non-voting non-participating Convertible Shares of the Company.
There were 44,830,503 Convertible Shares in issue at 31 March 2017, all fully paid 2016: 44,830,503.
The Convertible Shares are held by Indigo and can be converted into Ordinary Shares of the Company by Indigo on the condition of meeting certain criteria post-conversion regarding the overall shareholding structure of the Company.
Capital reserves Share premium Share premium has two main components.
207.2 million was recognised as a result of the Group reorganisation in October 2009.
It represents the estimated fair value of the Group at the date of the transaction.
The remaining 171.0 million as at 31 March 2017 was recognised as a result of new share issues made since October 2009.
These new share issues comprised the primary offering on the initial public offering of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange in March 2015, the conversion of some of the convertible debt instruments into shares and the conversion of certain employee share options into shares.
Within this, during the 2017 financial year 1.2 million increase was recorded in the share premium, all related to conversion of employee share options.
Reorganisation reserve Reorganisation reserve of 193.0 million was recognised as a result of the Group reorganisation in October 2009.
It is equal to the difference between the fair value of the Group at the date of reorganisation 209.0 million and the share capital of the Group at the same date 16.0 million.
Equity part of convertible debt The equity part of convertible debt in equity comprises the equity component of compound instruments issued by the Company.
The amount of the convertible debts classified as equity of 8.3 million 2016: 8.3 million is net of attributable transaction costs of 0.5 million.
Share based payment charge The share based payment balance of 3.9 million credit 2016: 2.9 million corresponds to the recognised cumulative charge of share options and share awards provided to the employees and Directors under longterm incentive schemes.
This balance is recognised directly in retained earnings.
Cash flow hedging reserve The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative unrealised net change in the intrinsic part of the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges Aircraft maintenance Other Total million million million At 1 April 2015 50.6 1.8 52.4 Capitalised within property, plant and equipment 41.0 - 41.0 Charged to comprehensive income - 0.8 0.8 Used during the year 7.9 1.4 9.3 At 31 March 2016 83.7 1.2 84.9 Non-current provisions 41.2 - 41.2 Current provisions 42.5 1.2 43.7 Capitalised within property, plant and equipment 67.9 - 67.9 Charged to comprehensive income - 1.2 1.2 Used during the year 39.8 0.5 40.3 At 31 March 2017 111.8 1.9 113.7 Non-current provisions 77.5 - 77.5 Current provisions 34.3 1.9 36.2 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 114 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 29.
Provisions for other liabilities and charges continued Non-current provisions relate to future aircraft maintenance obligations of the Group on leased aircraft and spare engines, falling due beyond one year from the balance sheet date.
Current aircraft maintenance provisions relate to heavy maintenance obligations expected to be fulfilled in the coming financial year.
The amount of provision reflects managements estimates of the cost of heavy maintenance work that will be required in the future to discharge obligations under the Groups operating lease agreements see Note 4.
Maintenance provisions in relation to engines covered by FHA agreements are netted off with the FHA prepayments made to the engine maintenance service provider in respect of the same group of engines.
The increase in current maintenance provisions from 2016 to 2017 relates primarily to new provisions made for engine Life Limited Part LLP replacements.
Other provisions relate to future liabilities under the Groups customer loyalty programme, all within one year.
Financial instruments Fair values The fair values of the financial instruments of the Group together with their carrying amounts shown in the statement of financial position are as follows: Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2017 2016 2016 million million million million Trade and other receivables due after more than one year 67.3 67.3 71.2 71.2 Restricted cash 155.9 155.9 101.6 101.6 Financial assets available for sale 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Derivative financial assets 10.1 10.1 1.7 1.7 Trade and other receivables due within one year 141.4 141.4 126.5 126.5 Cash and cash equivalents 774.0 774.0 645.6 645.6 Trade and other payables due within one year 197.7 197.7 177.3 177.3 Derivative financial liabilities 1.9 1.9 17.6 17.6 Convertible debt 27.1 27.1 27.2 27.2 Borrowings 5.9 5.9 6.4 6.4 Net balance of financial instruments asset 917.1 917.1 719.1 719.1 The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market such as long-term deposits among the non-current other receivables is determined by estimated discounted cash flows.
The carrying value less impairment provision of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values due to the short-term nature of trade receivables and payables.
Long-term financial assets and liabilities which are classified as fair value through profit and loss are recognised on fair value.
Trade and other receivables due after more than one year are almost exclusively maintenance reserves, with an average term of approximately four years.
The fair value of these assets is determined by discounting at a rate of interest of four-years US Dollar swap rate prevailing on the last day of the financial year.
The fair value of derivative financial instruments is based on their actual mark-to-market evaluation of the financial institutions.
During the year a 24.5 million loss 2016: 71.0 million was realised on derivative financial assets and liabilities in the income statement.
During the year a 16,000 gain 2016: 48,000 loss was realised on financial assets available for sale.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 115 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 30.
Financial instruments continued Effective interest rates analysis Interest-bearing financial liabilities The following table indicates the effective interest rate of the interest-bearing liabilities of the Group on the statement of financial position date and the periods in which they mature.
Convertible loans and notes are denominated in EUR, while the other short-term loans are denominated in US Dollars.
2017 2016 Within One to Two to Above Within One to Two to Above Effective one two five five Effective one two five five interest Total year years years years interest Total year years years years rate million million million million million rate million million million million million - - Convertible Notes 7.4% 27.1 0.3 - 26.8 7.4% 27.2 0.3 - 26.9 Finance lease liability 1 8.4% 3.4 0.5 0.5 1.7 0.7 8.4% 3.8 0.4 0.4 1.6 1.4 Finance lease liability 2 7.4% 2.5 0.1 0.1 0.5 1.8 7.4% 2.6 0.1 0.1 0.4 2.0 Interest earning financial assets The Group invests excess cash in a conservative way, primarily in in short-term time deposits on market rate at major banking groups.
Financial guarantees The Company has provided parent guarantees to certain lessors of its aircraft fleet, to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiaries under the respective lease contracts.
The Company has provided parent guarantee to the Hungarian Government, to guarantee the performance of its airline subsidiary in relation to a public services contract for the scheduled transport of passengers between Hungary and five West-Balkan countries.
The Company has provided parent guarantees to certain hedging counterparties, to guarantee the performance of Wizz Air Hungary Kft, under the respective hedge contracts.
The note purchase agreement for Convertible Notes contains a guarantee and indemnity, pursuant to which Wizz Air Hungary Kft, inter alia, guarantees to Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP the punctual performance by the Company of its obligations under the note purchase agreement.
Lease commitments The total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease rentals are as follows: 2017 2016 million million Payments due: Within one year 309.7 244.8 Between one and five years 1,269.5 950.1 More than five years 831.1 563.5 Total operating lease commitments 2,410.3 1,758.3 The majority 99 per cent.
of the commitments relate to aircraft operating lease contracts.
The above table includes also the lease costs of those aircraft that are not yet delivered but for which the lease contract was already signed before the statement of financial position date.
The lease payments are not subject to future escalation, but nine of the aircraft lease contracts are on a floating rate and thus the lease payments for these vary with the US Dollar market rates of interest.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 116 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 33.
Capital commitments At 31 March 2017 the Group had the following capital commitments: a commitment to purchase 133 Airbus aircraft of the A320 family in the period 20172024.
Of the 133 aircraft 23 relate to the ceo version of the A320 family from purchase orders placed prior to 2015 while the remaining 110 relate to the neo version from the purchase order placed in June 2015.
The total commitment is valued at US$16.5 billion 15.4 billion at list prices in 2017 US Dollar terms as at 31 March 2016: US$17.5 billion 15.5 billion, valued at 2016 list prices.
As at the date of approval of this document 23 of the 133 aircraft are covered by a sale and leaseback agreement: and a commitment to purchase 18 IAE spare aircraft engines in the period 20172024.
Of the 18 engines two relate to the ceo version of the IAE engines from purchase orders placed prior to 2015 while the remaining 16 to the neo version.
With regards to the neo engines, the Group in July 2016 entered into an engine selection agreement with Pratt & Whitney that, among other matters, included a commitment for the Group to purchase 16 spare engines starting from 2019.
The total commitment is valued at US$146.4 million 136.9 million at list prices in 2017 US Dollar terms as at March 2016: US$63.8 million 56.2 million, valued at 2016 list prices, related to six engines at the time.
As at the date of approval of this document the 18 engines are not yet financed.
Contingent liabilities Legal disputes European Commission state aid investigations Six of the European Commissions ongoing state aid investigations which are in their formal phase concern arrangements between Wizz Air and certain airports to which it flies, namely, Timioara, Cluj-Napoca, Trgu Mure, Beauvais and Girona.
Wizz Air has submitted its legal observations and supporting economic analyses of these arrangements to the European Commission.
Ultimately, an adverse decision by the European Commission could result in a repayment order for the recovery from Wizz Air of any amount determined by the European Commission to be illegal state aid.
None of these ongoing investigations are expected to lead to exposure that is material to the Group.
The European Commission has given notice that the state aid investigations involving Wizz Air will be assessed on the basis of new EU Guidelines on State aid to airports and airlines which were adopted by the European Commission on 20 February 2014.
Where relevant, Wizz Air has made further submissions to the European Commission in connection with this notification.
Claims by Carpatair Carpatair, a regional airline based in Romania, started a number of cases in the Romanian courts during 2012 and 2013 which relate to Carpatairs allegations that Timioara airport granted unlawful state aid to Wizz Air pursuant to an agreement between the parties or by virtue of the publicly available scheme of charges published by Timioara airport.
Wizz Air is intervening in the defence of these claims, either in its own right or in support of Timioara airport.
One of these cases determined that state aid existed in the 2010 scheme of charges, but failed to substantiate that decision or to quantify the amount involved.
Following this decision, Carpatair began a case in which both Timioara airport and Wizz Air are named as defendants and, pursuant to which, Carpatair aims to have the alleged state aid under the 2010 scheme of charges quantified and a repayment order issued.
Wizz Air understands that the Romanian Chamber of Accounts has issued a decision requiring Timioara airport to recover from Wizz Air an amount of approximately 3 million in respect of the state aid attributable to the 2010 and 2011 scheme of charges despite there having been no expert quantification of the amount and the airport has now started proceedings which Wizz Air is defending.
In January 2016 Carpatair filed a new legal action registered with the Bucharest Tribunal against Timioara airport, the Romanian Ministry of Transports, the Ministry of Public Finances representing the Romanian State and Wizz Air.
By the said legal action Carpatair asked the court to order the four defendants to pay, jointly, to Carpatair damages preliminarily estimated to amount to 92 million and interest related to the said amount, resulting from alleged state aid granted by Timioara airport to Wizz Air, from the existence of a marketing agreement between Timioara airport and Wizz Air and from an abuse of dominant position on the part of Timioara airport.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 117 ACCOUNTS AND OTHER INFORMATION NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 34.
Contingent liabilities continued Legal disputes continued Claims by Carpatair continued The courts decision delivered on 20 December 2016 upheld the objection raised by the Company that the Bucharest Tribunal lacked jurisdiction to hear the case and that the case should be heard by the Administrative Litigation Section of the Bucharest Court of Appeals.
The case was therefore forwarded to the Bucharest Court of Appeals Administrative and Fiscal Litigation Section where a hearing is scheduled on 18 May 2017.
Management estimates that the maximum potential exposure for these cases could be in the region of 113 million including the 3 million and the 92 million specifically mentioned above.
No provision has been made by the Group in relation to these issues because there is currently no reason to believe that the Group will incur charges from these cases.
Subsequent events There were no matters arising, between the statement of financial position date and the date on which these financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors, requiring adjustment or disclosure in accordance with IAS 10, Events after the reporting period.
Related parties Identity of related parties Related parties are: Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP collectively referred to as Indigo here, because it appointed three Directors to the Board of Directors all in service at 31 March 2017 : key management personnel Directors and Officers : and den Rent Kft.
one of the logistics suppliers of the Group, because one of the Officers of the Group due to equity investment has joint control over this entity.
Indigo, Directors and Officers altogether held 23.3 per cent.
of the voting shares of the Company at 31 March 2017 2016: 24.7 per cent..
Transactions with related parties There were no transactions with related parties during the fiscal year except as indicated below.
Transactions with Indigo At 31 March 2017 Indigo held 10,740,633 Ordinary Shares equal to 18.7 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital and 44,830,503 Convertible Shares of the Company 2016: 10,740,633 Ordinary Shares and 44,830,503 Convertible Shares.
Indigo has interest in convertible debt instruments issued by the Company see Note 24.
The Companys liability to Indigo, including principal and accrued interest, was 27.1 million at 31 March 2017 2016: 27.2 million.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 the Company entered into transactions with Indigo as follows: the Company recognised interest expense on convertible debt instruments held by Indigo in the amount of 2.0 million 2016: 2.0 million : and fees of 0.1 million 2016: 0.1 million were paid to Indigo in respect of the remuneration of two of the Directors who were delegated by Indigo to the Board of Directors of the Company.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 118 Accounts and other information NOTES FORMING PART OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED 36.
Related parties continued Transactions with related parties continued Transactions with key management personnel Officers members of executive management and Directors of the Board are considered to be key management personnel.
The compensation of key management personnel, including Non-Executive Directors, is as follows: 2017 2016 million million Salaries and other short-term employee benefits 4.3 6.6 Social security costs 0.7 1.3 Share based payments 0.6 0.9 Amounts paid to third parties in respect of Directors service 0.2 0.2 Total key management compensation expense 5.7 9.1 The total key management compensation expense was lower than in 2016 primarily because under the Shortterm Incentive Plan there was significantly lower payout to Officers in 2017 than in 2016.
Transactions with den Rent Kft.
During the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group recognised operating expenses in the amount of 3.0 million in relation to services provided by den Rent Kft.
The Group had trade liabilities towards den Rent Kft.
in the amount of 0.2 million at 31 March 2017 2016: 0.1 million.
The contract with den Rent Kft.
for transportation services has six months termination notice.
Assuming normal operations of the Group, this is equivalent to approximately 1.5 million purchase commitment existing at 31 March 2017 2016: 1.2m.
The relationship with den Rent Kft.
is subject to the Groups Conflict of Interest policy and, in accordance with that policy, the relevant Officer is excluded from all discussions and decisions related to this supplier.
Ultimate controlling party In the opinion of the Directors there is no individual controlling party in relation to the Company's issued Ordinary Shares.
As at 28 April 2017 approximately 51.6 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in the Company were owned by Qualifying Nationals.
Shareholders and potential investors are reminded that the Groups Hungarian operating licence depends, inter alia, on Qualifying Nationals owning more than 50 per cent.
The Companys articles of association enable the Directors to take action to ensure that the amount of Ordinary Shares held by Non-Qualifying Nationals does not reach a level that could jeopardise the Groups entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the benefit of any operating licence that benefits the Group.
Qualifying Nationals include: i EEA nationals, ii nationals of Switzerland and iii in respect of any undertaking, an undertaking that satisfies the conditions as to nationality of ownership and control of undertakings granted an operating licence contained in Article 4 f of the Air Services Regulation, as such conditions may be amended, varied, supplemented or replaced from time to time, or as provided for in any agreement between the EU and any third country whether or not such undertaking is itself granted an operating licence.
A Non-Qualifying National is any person who is not a Qualifying National in accordance with the definition above.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 119
