150 151 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
General information determined that its application will result in the statement of earnings with Comparative figures depreciation, and an interest expense no changes in its revenue recognition.
As Centamin plc the Company is a listed Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the financial statement presentation adopted for the current year.
These the majority of gold sales are not subject to component recognised for each lease, in public company, incorporated and are categorisation changes for comparison purposes only and have no effect on results as previously reported.
The changes included: line with finance lease accounting under pricing adjustments, a significant impact is domiciled in Jersey and operating through Year ended Year ended not anticipated.
The new standard will be IAS 17 Leases.
The groups leases will subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities 31 December 31 December come on balance sheet on adoption of effective for annual periods beginning on operating in Egypt, Burkina Faso, Cte 2017 2016 or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 and the impact is still being US$000 US$000 dIvoire, United Kingdom and Australia.
IFRS 16 will be applied for annual 1 It is the parent company of the group, Stock obsolescence provision reallocated to inventories IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 periods beginning on or after 1 January comprising the Company and its addresses the financial reporting of Decrease in inventory 5,136 2,500 2019 with the cumulative effect of initially subsidiaries and joint arrangements.
financial assets and financial liabilities.
Decrease in provisions 5,136 2,500 applying the standard recognised at the This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Registered office and principal place date of initial application.
instruments: recognition and of business: 2 Prepayments reallocation measurement.
IFRS 9 requires financial Centamin plc Increase in prepayments 6,272 5,480 assets to be classified into three 3.
Summary of significant 2 Mulcaster Street measurement categories: those measured Decrease in inventory 6,272 5,480 accounting policies St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ at fair value through profit and loss, those 1 Per IAS 2 Inventories, it is required to show the provision for obsolete inventory within the inventory note as the inventory balance in the statement of Basis of preparation financial position should be net of such a provision: as such this has been reclassified from provisions to inventory.
The nature of the groups operations and measured at fair value through other These financial statements are 2 Prepayments for items within the inventory balance were identified by management for which the risks and rewards of ownership had not passed, and as its principal activities are set out in the comprehensive income and those denominated in US dollars US$, which is such these have been reclassified from inventory to prepayments.
directors report and the strategic report measured at amortised cost.
The the presentational currency of Centamin plc.
determination is made at initial recognition.
All companies in the group use the US$ as Principles of consolidation recorded in the income statement and below profit after tax of Centamin, which The classification depends on the entitys their functional currency except for the UK statement of financial position below profit will lead to a reduction in the earnings per business model for managing its financial The consolidated financial statements subsidiaries which are denominated in 2.
Adoption of new and after tax, as the EMRA profit share, on the share.
instruments and the contractual cash flow are prepared by combining the financial Great British pounds GBP and the revised accounting standards date that a net production surplus characteristics of the instrument.
For statements of all the entities that Going concern Australian subsidiaries which are Standards not affecting the becomes available.
Payment made to financial liabilities, the standard retains comprise the consolidated entity, being These financial statements for the year denominated in Australian dollars AUD.
reported results or the financial position EMRA pursuant to the provisions of the most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The the Company the parent entity and its All financial information presented in US ended 31 December 2017 have been In the current year, the new and revised Concession Agreement is based on the net impairment model, hedging rules and subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities prepared on a going concern basis, which dollars has been rounded to the nearest standards and interpretations that have production surplus available as at 30 June, derecognition rules have also been including structured entities over which thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
contemplate the realisation of assets and been adopted have not had a significant being SGMs financial year end.
Pursuant to amended under IFRS 9.
The group believes the group has control, as defined in liquidation of liabilities during the normal impact on the amounts reported in these The financial statements have been the Concession Agreement, the provisions there is no material impact of IFRS 9 on IFRS 10 Consolidated financial course of operations.
prepared in accordance with International of which are described more fully below, current results, had it been effective in the statements.
Consistent accounting Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The group meets its daytoday working whilst PGM is responsible for funding New standards, amendments and year ended 31 December 2017, as it does policies are employed in the preparation issued by the International Accounting capital requirements through existing cash interpretations not yet adopted SGMs activities, PGM is also entitled to not enter into formal hedge accounting and presentation of the consolidated Standards Board IASB and adopted for resources.
As discussed in note 22, the recover the following costs and expenses Standards and interpretations issued but arrangements, has no long term trade or financial statements.
use by the European Union and operation of the mine has been affected by payable from sales revenue excluding the not yet effective up to the date of issuance other receivables and does not hold The consolidated financial statements interpretations issued from time to time two legal actions.
The first of these royalty payable to the Arab Republic of of the financial statements are listed below.
financial liabilities at fair value.
The group include the information and results of each by the IFRS Interpretations Committee followed from a decision taken by Egyptian Egypt ARE : a all current operating This listing of standards and interpretations has considered the impact of IFRS 9 on the subsidiary from the date on which the IFRS IC both as adopted by the General Petroleum Corporation EGPC expenses incurred and paid after the initial issued are those that the group reasonably accounting for assets currently held as Company obtains control and until such European Union EU and which are to charge international, not local commercial production: b exploration expects to have an impact on disclosures, availableforsale and determined it not be time as the Company ceases to control such mandatory for EU reporting as at subsidised prices for the supply of DFO, costs, including those accumulated to the financial position or performance when material.
The new standard will be effective entity.
The group controls an entity when 31 December 2017, the Companies Jersey and the second arose as a result of a commencement of commercial production applied at a future date.
for annual periods beginning on or after the group is exposed to, or has rights to, Law 1991, and IFRS as issued by the IASB judgment of the Administrative Court of at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with variable returns from its involvement with and interpretations issued from time to first instance in relation to, amongst other cost per annum : and c exploitation customers.
The new standard replaces IFRS 16 Leases.
The new standard will the entity and has the ability to affect those 2 time by the IFRS IC which are mandatory matters, the Companys 160km capital costs, including those accumulated IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction replace IAS 17 Leases and eliminates the returns through its power over the entity.
The group has not exploitation lease.
In relation to the first prior to the commencement of commercial contracts and provides a fivestep classification of leases as either operating early adopted any other amendments, decision, the Company remains confident In preparing the consolidated financial production at the rate of 33.3% of total framework for application to customer or finance leases by the lessee.
standards or interpretations that have been that in the event that it is required to statements, all intercompany balances and accumulated cost per annum.
contracts: identification of customer Classification of leases by the lessor under issued but are not yet mandatory.
continue to pay international prices, the transactions, and unrealised profits arising contract: identification of the contract EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% of IFRS 16 continues as either an operating or mine at Sukari will remain commercially within the consolidated entity, are The consolidated financial statements have SGMs net production surplus which is performance obligations: determination of a finance lease, as was the treatment under viable.
Similarly, the Company remains eliminated in full.
been prepared on a going concern basis the contract price: allocation of the defined as revenue less payment of the IAS 17 Leases.
The treatment of leases by confident that the appeal it has lodged in and under the historical cost convention, as Sukari Gold Mine SGM is jointly owned fixed royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt contract price to the contract performance the lessee will require capitalisation of relation to the decision of the modified by availableforsale financial by PGM and EMRA on a 50% basis.
For ARE and recoverable costs.
However, obligations: and revenue recognition as most leases resulting in accounting Administrative Court will ultimately be assets, and financial assets and financial accounting purposes, SGM is wholly in accordance with the terms of the performance obligations are satisfied.
A treatment similar to finance leases under successful, although final resolution of it liabilities including derivative instruments consolidated within the Centamin group of Concession Agreement, in the first and new requirement where revenue is variable IAS 17 Leases.
Exemptions for leases of may take some time.
On 20 March 2013 the at fair value through profit and loss.
companies, reflecting the substance and second years in which there is a profit stipulates that revenue may only be very low value or short term leases will be Supreme Administrative Court upheld the economic reality of the Concession share, PGM will be entitled to an additional recognised to the extent that it is highly applicable.
The new standard will result in Companys application to suspend the Agreement see note 23 and will therefore 10% of net production surplus and an probable that significant reversal of an increase in lease assets and liabilities for decision until the merits of the Companys recognise a noncontrolling interest NCI additional 5% in the third and fourth years.
Under the new standard the appeal were considered and ruled on, thus for EMRAs participation.
Furthermore, Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and treatment of all lease expense is aligned in providing assurance that normal operations based on the requirements of the these provisions of the Concession will be able to continue during this process.
Concession Agreement, payments to NCI Agreement will be recognised as a variable meet the definition of a liability and will be charge in the income statement
