Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Directors Estimates The directors are responsible for the determination of The preparation of the financial statements in conformity theinvestment policy of the Company on the advice of with US GAAP requires management to make estimates the Investment Manager and have overall responsibility and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the for the Companys activities.
This includes the periodic consolidated financial statements and accompanying review of the Investment Managers compliance with notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
theCompanys investment policies and procedures Investments andthe approval of certain investments.
A majority of Investments are stated at fair value in accordance with directors must be independent directors and not affiliated the Companys investment valuation policy.
The inputs with HarbourVest or any affiliate ofHarbourVest.
used to determine fair value include financial statements NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT provided by the investment partnerships which typically include fair market value capital account balances.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Inreviewing the underlying financial statements and The following accounting policies have been applied capital account balances, the Company considers consistently in dealing with items which are considered compliance with ASC 820, the currency in which the material in relation to the Companys consolidated investment is denominated, and other information financial position.
The fair value of the Companys Basis of Presentation investments is based on the most recent financial The consolidated financial statements include the accounts information provided by the Investment Manager, adjusted of HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited and its five for known investment operating expenses and subsequent wholly owned subsidiaries: HVGPE Domestic A L. P. transactions, including investments, realisations, changes HVGPE Domestic B L. P. HVGPE Domestic C L. P. in foreign currency exchange rates, and changes in value HVGPE International A L. P. and HVGPE International B of public securities.
This valuation does not necessarily L. P. together the undertakings.
Each of the subsidiaries is reflect amounts that might ultimately berealised from the a Cayman Islands limited partnership formed to facilitate the investment and the difference canbe material.
All intercompany accounts Securities for which a public market does exist are valued and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
by the Company at quoted market prices at the balance Certain comparative amounts have been reclassified to sheet date.
Generally, the partnership investments have conform to the current year presentation.
adefined term and cannot be transferred without the consent of the General Partner of the limited partnership Method of Accounting in which the investment has been made.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with US generally accepted accounting Foreign Currency Transactions principles US GAAP, The Companies Guernsey Law, The currency in which the Company operates is 2008 as amended, and the Principal Documents.
Under USdollars, which is also the presentation currency.
applicable rules of English law implementing the EU Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are Transparency Directive, the Company is allowed to recorded in the local currency at the exchange rate prepare its financial statements in accordance with US ineffect at the transaction dates.
Foreign currency GAAP instead of IFRS.
investments, investment commitments, cash and The Company is an investment company following equivalents, and other assets and liabilities are translated theaccounting and reporting guidance of the Financial at the rates in effect at the balance sheet date.
Foreign Accounting Standards Boards FASB Accounting currency translation gains and losses are included in Standards Codification ASC Topic 946 Financial realised and unrealised gains losses on investments as Services Investment Companies.
The Company does not segregate that portion of realised or unrealised gains and losses attributable toforeign currency translation on investments.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements continued Cash and Equivalents and the Company will be charged an annual exemption The Company considers all highly liquid investments fee of 1,200 included as other expenses in the withanoriginal maturity of three months or less to be cash Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The carrying amount included in the balance Income may be subject to withholding taxes imposed sheet for cash and equivalents approximates their fair value.
bythe US or other countries which will impact the The Company maintains bank accounts denominated in US Companys effective tax rate.
dollars, in euros, and in pounds sterling.
The Company may invest excess cash balances in highly liquid instruments Investments made in entities that generate US source such as certificates of deposit, sovereign debt obligations of income may subject the Company to certain US federal certain countries, and money market funds that are highly and state income tax consequences.
A US withholding rated by the credit rating agencies.
The associated credit tax at the rate of 30% may be applied on the distributive risk of the cash and equivalents is monitored by the Board share of any US source dividends and interest subject and the Investment Manager on a regular basis.
The Board tocertain exemptions and certain other income that is has authorised the Investment Manager to manage the received directly or through one or more entities treated cash balances on a daily basis according to the terms set as either partnerships or disregarded entities for US out in the treasury policies created by the Board.
Furthermore, investments made in entities that generate income that is effectively Investment Income connected with a US trade or business may also subject Investment income includes interest from cash and the Company to certain US federal and state income equivalents and dividends.
Dividends are recorded when taxconsequences.
The US requires withholding on they are declared and interest is recorded when earned.
effectively connected income at the highest US rate generally 35%.
In addition, the Company may also be Operating Expenses subject to a branch profits tax which can be imposed Operating expenses include amounts directly incurred ata rate of up to 30% of any after-tax, effectively bythe Company as part of its operations, and do not connected income associated with a US trade or include amounts incurred from the operations of the business.
However, no amounts have been accrued.
The Company accounts for income taxes under the Net Realised Gains and Losses on Investments provisions of ASC 740, Income Taxes.
This standard For investments in private equity funds, the Company establishes consistent thresholds as it relates to accounting records its share of realised gains and losses as reported for income taxes.
It defines the threshold for recognising the by the Investment Manager including fund level related benefits of tax-return positions in the financial statements expenses and management fees, and is net of any carry  to be sustained by the taxing allocation.
Realised gains and losses are calculated authority and requires measurement of a tax position asthe difference between proceeds received and the meeting the more-likely-than-not criterion, based on the related cost of the investment.
largest benefit that is more than 50% likely to be realised.
For the year ended 31 January 2017, the Investment Net Change in Unrealised Appreciation and Manager has analysed the Companys inventory of tax Depreciation on Investments positions taken with respect to all applicable income tax For investments in private equity funds, the Company issues for all open tax years in each respective jurisdiction, records its share of change in unrealised gains and losses and has concluded that no provision for income tax is as reported by the investment manager as an increase required in the Companys financial statements.
ordecrease in unrealised appreciation or depreciation ofinvestments and is net of any carry allocation.
When an Shareholders in certain jurisdictions may have individual investment is realised, the related unrealised appreciation tax consequences from ownership of the Companys or depreciation is recognised as realised.
The Company has not accounted for any such tax consequences in these consolidated financial statements.
Income Taxes The Company is registered in Guernsey as a tax exempt company.
The States of Guernsey Income Tax Authority has granted the Company exemption from Guernsey income tax under the provision of the Income Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance 1989 as amended 94 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
