150 151 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
General information determined that its application will result in the statement of earnings with Comparative figures depreciation, and an interest expense no changes in its revenue recognition.
As Centamin plc the Company is a listed Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the financial statement presentation adopted for the current year.
These the majority of gold sales are not subject to component recognised for each lease, in public company, incorporated and are categorisation changes for comparison purposes only and have no effect on results as previously reported.
The changes included: line with finance lease accounting under pricing adjustments, a significant impact is domiciled in Jersey and operating through Year ended Year ended not anticipated.
The new standard will be IAS 17 Leases.
The groups leases will subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities 31 December 31 December come on balance sheet on adoption of effective for annual periods beginning on operating in Egypt, Burkina Faso, Cte 2017 2016 or after 1 January 2018.
IFRS 16 and the impact is still being US$000 US$000 dIvoire, United Kingdom and Australia.
IFRS 16 will be applied for annual 1 It is the parent company of the group, Stock obsolescence provision reallocated to inventories IFRS 9 Financial instruments.
IFRS 9 periods beginning on or after 1 January comprising the Company and its addresses the financial reporting of Decrease in inventory 5,136 2,500 2019 with the cumulative effect of initially subsidiaries and joint arrangements.
financial assets and financial liabilities.
Decrease in provisions 5,136 2,500 applying the standard recognised at the This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Registered office and principal place date of initial application.
instruments: recognition and of business: 2 Prepayments reallocation measurement.
IFRS 9 requires financial Centamin plc Increase in prepayments 6,272 5,480 assets to be classified into three 3.
Summary of significant 2 Mulcaster Street measurement categories: those measured Decrease in inventory 6,272 5,480 accounting policies St Helier, Jersey JE2 3NJ at fair value through profit and loss, those 1 Per IAS 2 Inventories, it is required to show the provision for obsolete inventory within the inventory note as the inventory balance in the statement of Basis of preparation financial position should be net of such a provision: as such this has been reclassified from provisions to inventory.
The nature of the groups operations and measured at fair value through other These financial statements are 2 Prepayments for items within the inventory balance were identified by management for which the risks and rewards of ownership had not passed, and as its principal activities are set out in the comprehensive income and those denominated in US dollars US$, which is such these have been reclassified from inventory to prepayments.
directors report and the strategic report measured at amortised cost.
The the presentational currency of Centamin plc.
determination is made at initial recognition.
All companies in the group use the US$ as Principles of consolidation recorded in the income statement and below profit after tax of Centamin, which The classification depends on the entitys their functional currency except for the UK statement of financial position below profit will lead to a reduction in the earnings per business model for managing its financial The consolidated financial statements subsidiaries which are denominated in 2.
Adoption of new and after tax, as the EMRA profit share, on the share.
instruments and the contractual cash flow are prepared by combining the financial Great British pounds GBP and the revised accounting standards date that a net production surplus characteristics of the instrument.
For statements of all the entities that Going concern Australian subsidiaries which are Standards not affecting the becomes available.
Payment made to financial liabilities, the standard retains comprise the consolidated entity, being These financial statements for the year denominated in Australian dollars AUD.
reported results or the financial position EMRA pursuant to the provisions of the most of the IAS 39 requirements.
The the Company the parent entity and its All financial information presented in US ended 31 December 2017 have been In the current year, the new and revised Concession Agreement is based on the net impairment model, hedging rules and subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries are all entities prepared on a going concern basis, which dollars has been rounded to the nearest standards and interpretations that have production surplus available as at 30 June, derecognition rules have also been including structured entities over which thousand dollars, unless otherwise stated.
contemplate the realisation of assets and been adopted have not had a significant being SGMs financial year end.
Pursuant to amended under IFRS 9.
The group believes the group has control, as defined in liquidation of liabilities during the normal impact on the amounts reported in these The financial statements have been the Concession Agreement, the provisions there is no material impact of IFRS 9 on IFRS 10 Consolidated financial course of operations.
prepared in accordance with International of which are described more fully below, current results, had it been effective in the statements.
Consistent accounting Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as The group meets its daytoday working whilst PGM is responsible for funding New standards, amendments and year ended 31 December 2017, as it does policies are employed in the preparation issued by the International Accounting capital requirements through existing cash interpretations not yet adopted SGMs activities, PGM is also entitled to not enter into formal hedge accounting and presentation of the consolidated Standards Board IASB and adopted for resources.
As discussed in note 22, the recover the following costs and expenses Standards and interpretations issued but arrangements, has no long term trade or financial statements.
use by the European Union and operation of the mine has been affected by payable from sales revenue excluding the not yet effective up to the date of issuance other receivables and does not hold The consolidated financial statements interpretations issued from time to time two legal actions.
The first of these royalty payable to the Arab Republic of of the financial statements are listed below.
financial liabilities at fair value.
The group include the information and results of each by the IFRS Interpretations Committee followed from a decision taken by Egyptian Egypt ARE : a all current operating This listing of standards and interpretations has considered the impact of IFRS 9 on the subsidiary from the date on which the IFRS IC both as adopted by the General Petroleum Corporation EGPC expenses incurred and paid after the initial issued are those that the group reasonably accounting for assets currently held as Company obtains control and until such European Union EU and which are to charge international, not local commercial production: b exploration expects to have an impact on disclosures, availableforsale and determined it not be time as the Company ceases to control such mandatory for EU reporting as at subsidised prices for the supply of DFO, costs, including those accumulated to the financial position or performance when material.
The new standard will be effective entity.
The group controls an entity when 31 December 2017, the Companies Jersey and the second arose as a result of a commencement of commercial production applied at a future date.
for annual periods beginning on or after the group is exposed to, or has rights to, Law 1991, and IFRS as issued by the IASB judgment of the Administrative Court of at the rate of 33.3% of total accumulated 1 January 2018.
IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with variable returns from its involvement with and interpretations issued from time to first instance in relation to, amongst other cost per annum : and c exploitation customers.
The new standard replaces IFRS 16 Leases.
The new standard will the entity and has the ability to affect those 2 time by the IFRS IC which are mandatory matters, the Companys 160km capital costs, including those accumulated IAS 18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction replace IAS 17 Leases and eliminates the returns through its power over the entity.
The group has not exploitation lease.
In relation to the first prior to the commencement of commercial contracts and provides a fivestep classification of leases as either operating early adopted any other amendments, decision, the Company remains confident In preparing the consolidated financial production at the rate of 33.3% of total framework for application to customer or finance leases by the lessee.
standards or interpretations that have been that in the event that it is required to statements, all intercompany balances and accumulated cost per annum.
contracts: identification of customer Classification of leases by the lessor under issued but are not yet mandatory.
continue to pay international prices, the transactions, and unrealised profits arising contract: identification of the contract EMRA is entitled to a share of 50% of IFRS 16 continues as either an operating or mine at Sukari will remain commercially within the consolidated entity, are The consolidated financial statements have SGMs net production surplus which is performance obligations: determination of a finance lease, as was the treatment under viable.
Similarly, the Company remains eliminated in full.
been prepared on a going concern basis the contract price: allocation of the defined as revenue less payment of the IAS 17 Leases.
The treatment of leases by confident that the appeal it has lodged in and under the historical cost convention, as Sukari Gold Mine SGM is jointly owned fixed royalty to Arab Republic of Egypt contract price to the contract performance the lessee will require capitalisation of relation to the decision of the modified by availableforsale financial by PGM and EMRA on a 50% basis.
For ARE and recoverable costs.
However, obligations: and revenue recognition as most leases resulting in accounting Administrative Court will ultimately be assets, and financial assets and financial accounting purposes, SGM is wholly in accordance with the terms of the performance obligations are satisfied.
A treatment similar to finance leases under successful, although final resolution of it liabilities including derivative instruments consolidated within the Centamin group of Concession Agreement, in the first and new requirement where revenue is variable IAS 17 Leases.
Exemptions for leases of may take some time.
On 20 March 2013 the at fair value through profit and loss.
companies, reflecting the substance and second years in which there is a profit stipulates that revenue may only be very low value or short term leases will be Supreme Administrative Court upheld the economic reality of the Concession share, PGM will be entitled to an additional recognised to the extent that it is highly applicable.
The new standard will result in Companys application to suspend the Agreement see note 23 and will therefore 10% of net production surplus and an probable that significant reversal of an increase in lease assets and liabilities for decision until the merits of the Companys recognise a noncontrolling interest NCI additional 5% in the third and fourth years.
Under the new standard the appeal were considered and ruled on, thus for EMRAs participation.
Furthermore, Any payment made to EMRA pursuant to assessed the impact of IFRS 15 and treatment of all lease expense is aligned in providing assurance that normal operations based on the requirements of the these provisions of the Concession will be able to continue during this process.
Concession Agreement, payments to NCI Agreement will be recognised as a variable meet the definition of a liability and will be charge in the income statement 152 153 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 Superannuation recoverable amount, but only to the extent 3.
Summary of significant Other financial liabilities monetary assets, which are recognised With the exception of availableforsale accounting policies continued directly in profit or loss.
Where the equity instruments, if, in a subsequent that the increased carrying amount does The Company contributes to, but does not Other financial liabilities, including not exceed the carrying amount that would Going concern continued investment is disposed of or is determined period, the amount of the impairment loss borrowings, are initially measured at participate in, compulsory superannuation to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss decreases and the decrease can be related have been determined had no impairment funds defined contribution schemes on In the unlikely event that the group is fair value, net of transaction costs.
loss been recognised for the asset in previously recognised in the investments objectively to an event occurring after the unsuccessful in either or both of its legal Other financial liabilities are subsequently behalf of the employees and directors in revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit impairment was recognised, the previously previous years.
actions, and that the operating activities respect of salaries and directors fees paid.
measured at amortised cost using the or loss.
recognised impairment loss is reversed are restricted to a reduced area, it is the effective interest method, with interest Contributions are charged against income Where a decision is made to proceed with through profit or loss to the extent the directors belief that the group will be able as they are made.
expense recognised on an effective development in respect of a particular area Dividends on AFS equity instruments are carrying amount of the investment at the to continue as going concern.
recognised in profit or loss when the Exploration, evaluation of interest, the relevant exploration and date the impairment is reversed does not and development expenditure evaluation asset is tested for impairment, Derecognition of financial liabilities groups right to receive the dividends is Having assessed the principal risks and the exceed what the amortised cost would established.
reclassified to mine development properties, other matters discussed in connection with Exploration and evaluation expenditures in The group derecognises financial liabilities have been had the impairment not been and then amortised over the life of the relation to each separate area of interest the long term viability statement refer to when, and only when, the groups The fair value of AFS monetary assets recognised.
reserves associated with the area of interest the risk management report included are recognised as an exploration and obligations are discharged, cancelled or denominated in a foreign currency is In respect of AFS equity instruments, any once mining operations have commenced.
evaluation asset in the year in which they within the annual report, the directors they expire.
determined in that foreign currency and subsequent increase in fair value after an considered it appropriate to adopt the are incurred where the following conditions translated at the spot rate at the balance Mine development expenditure is Financial assets impairment loss is recognised in other are satisfied: going concern basis of accounting in recognised at cost less accumulated sheet date.
The foreign exchange gains and Financial assets are recognised when, and comprehensive income.
losses that are recognised in profit or loss amortisation and any impairment losses.
the rights to tenure of the area of only when, the entity becomes a party to Derecognition of financial assets When commercial production in an area of Accounting policies are determined based on the amortised interest are current: and the contractual provisions of the cost of the monetary asset.
Other foreign interest has commenced, the associated The group derecognises a financial asset Accounting policies are selected and at least one of the following conditions instrument, and are initially measured at costs are amortised over the estimated exchange gains and losses are recognised only when the contractual rights to the applied in a manner which ensures that the fair value, net of transaction costs except is also met: in other comprehensive income.
economic life of the mine on a units of cash flows from the asset expire, or when resulting financial statements satisfy the for those financial assets classified as at fair the exploration and evaluation production basis.
it transfers the financial asset and concepts of relevance and reliability, value through the profit or loss which are Loans and receivables expenditures are expected to be substantially all the risks and rewards of thereby ensuring that the substance of the initially measured at fair value.
recouped through successful Changes in factors such as estimates of Trade receivables, loans and other ownership of the asset to another entity.
underlying transactions or other events is development and exploration of the proved and probable reserves that affect receivables that have fixed or determinable Subsequent to initial recognition, If the group neither transfers nor retains reported.
These policies have been area of interest, or alternatively, by unit of production calculations are dealt payments that are not quoted in an active investments in subsidiaries are measured at substantially all the risks and rewards of consistently applied to all the years its sale: or with on a prospective basis.
market are classified as loans and cost in the Companys financial statements.
ownership and continues to control the presented, unless otherwise stated.
Loans and receivables are exploration and evaluation activities Other financial assets are loans and Foreign currencies transferred asset, the group recognises its in the area of interest have not at the measured at amortised cost using the The following significant policies have been receivables.
The classification depends on The individual financial statements of each retained interest in the asset and an effective interest rate method less reporting date reached a stage adopted in the preparation and the nature and purpose of the financial group entity are presented in its functional associated liability for amounts it may have which permits a reasonable impairment.
Interest is recognised by presentation of these financial statements: assets and is determined at the time of currency being the currency of the primary to pay.
If the group retains substantially all applying the effective interest rate except assessment of the existence or initial recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents economic environment in which the entity the risks and rewards of ownership of a otherwise of economically for short term receivables when the operates.
For the purpose of the Cash comprises cash on hand and demand An entity shall derecognise a financial transferred financial asset, the group recognition of interest would be immaterial.
recoverable reserves, and active and consolidated financial statements, the deposits.
Cash equivalents are short term, asset when, and only when the contractual continues to recognise the financial asset significant operations in, or in Impairment of financial assets results and financial position of each entity highly liquid investments that are readily rights to the cash flows from the financial and also recognises a collateralised relation to, the area of interest are are expressed in US dollars, which is the Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, convertible to known amounts of cash and asset expire or it transfers the financial borrowing for the proceeds received.
functional currency of most companies in are assessed for indicators of impairment which are subject to an insignificant risk of asset by transferring its rights to the related Employee benefits Exploration and evaluation assets are the group and the presentation currency at each reporting date.
Financial assets are changes in value.
A liability is recognised for benefits for the consolidated financial statements impaired where there is objective evidence initially measured at cost and include Financial instruments Effective interest method accruing to employees in respect of wages acquisition of rights to explore, studies, except for the UK subsidiaries which are that as a result of one or more events that Financial assets and financial liabilities are The effective interest method is a method and salaries, annual leave, long service denominated in Great British pounds and occurred after the initial recognition of the exploration drilling, trenching and recognised in the groups balance sheet of calculating the amortised cost of a leave and sick leave when it is probable sampling and associated activities.
General the Australian subsidiaries which are financial asset the estimated future cash when the group becomes a party to the financial asset and of allocating interest that settlement will be required and they denominated in Australian dollars.
flows of the investment have been impacted.
and administrative costs are only included contractual provisions of the instrument.
income over the relevant period.
The are capable of being measured reliably.
in the measurement of exploration and For financial assets carried at amortised cost, In preparing the financial statements of the effective interest rate is the rate that Financial liabilities and equity the amount of the impairment is the Liabilities recognised in respect of evaluation costs where they are related individual entities, transactions in currencies exactly discounts estimated future cash employee benefits expected to be settled directly to operational activities in a Debt and equity instruments are classified difference between the assets carrying other than the entitys functional currency receipts through the expected life of the as either financial liabilities or as equity in amount and the present value of estimated within twelve months, are measured at particular area of interest.
are recorded at the rates of exchange financial asset, or, where appropriate, a their nominal values using the accordance with the substance of the future cash flows, discounted at the original Exploration and evaluation assets are prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
shorter period, to the net carrying amount contractual arrangement as defined below.
remuneration rate expected to apply at the At each reporting date, monetary items assessed for impairment when facts and on initial recognition.
Liabilities recognised in Equity instruments circumstances as defined in IFRS 6 denominated in foreign currencies are The carrying amount of the financial asset Availableforsale AFS financial assets respect of employee benefits which are not retranslated at the rates prevailing at the is reduced by the impairment loss directly Exploration for and evaluation of mineral An equity instrument is any contract that expected to be settled within twelve Listed shares and listed redeemable notes resources suggest that the carrying reporting date.
Nonmonetary items evidences a residual interest in the assets for all financial assets with the exception of held by the group that are traded in an months are measured at the present value carried at fair value that are denominated in trade receivables where the carrying amount of exploration and evaluation of an entity after deducting all of its of the estimated future cash flows to be active market are classified as being AFS assets may exceed its recoverable amount.
foreign currencies are retranslated at the liabilities.
Equity instruments issued by the amount is reduced through the use of an and are stated at fair value.
Fair value is made by the consolidated entity in respect rates prevailing on the date when the fair allowance account.
When a trade The recoverable amount of the exploration group are recognised at the proceeds of services provided by employees up to determined in the manner described in and evaluation assets or the cash value was determined.
received, net of direct issue costs.
receivable is uncollectible, it is written off note 28.
Gains and losses arising from reporting date.
Subsequent generating unit s to which it has been Nonmonetary items that are measured in changes in fair value are recognised in allocated, being no larger than the relevant recoveries of amounts previously written terms of historical cost in a foreign currency other comprehensive income and off are credited against the allowance area of interest is estimated to determine are not retranslated.
Exchange differences accumulated profits with the exception of the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Changes in the carrying amount are recognised in profit or loss in the impairment losses, interest calculated of the allowance account are recognised in Where an impairment loss subsequently period in which they arise.
using the effective interest method and reverses, the carrying amount of the asset profit or loss.
foreign exchange gains and losses on is increased to the revised estimate of its 154 155 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 Preproduction revenues 3.
Summary of significant Operating lease payments are recognised as Mine development properties the entity can identify the component Recoverable amount is the higher of fair accounting policies continued of the orebody for which access has value loss costs to sell and value in use.
In an expense on a straightline basis over the Income derived by the entity prior to the Where mining of a mineral resource has Accounting policies continued lease term, except where other systematic been improved: and assessing value in use, the estimated future commenced, the accumulated costs are date of commercial production is offset cash flows are discounted to their present Segment reporting basis is more representative of the time against the expenditure capitalised and transferred from exploration and evaluation the costs relating to the stripping pattern in which economic benefits from value using a pretax discount rate that Operating segments are reported in assets to mine development properties, activity associated with that component carried in the consolidated statement of reflects current market assessment of the the leased asset are consumed.
All revenues recognised a manner consistent with the internal net of any preproduction revenues.
rentals arising under operating leases are time value of money and the risks specific reporting provided to the chief operating after commencement of commercial Amortisation is first charged to new mine When the costs of the stripping activity to the asset for which the estimates of recognised as an expense in the period in production are recognised in accordance decisionmaker.
The chief operating development ventures from the date of asset and the inventory produced are not which they are incurred.
future flows have not been adjusted.
decisionmaker, who is responsible with the revenue policy stated above.
Amortisation separately identifiable, production The commencement date of commercial for allocating resources and assessing Property, plant and equipment PPE If the recoverable amount of a cash of mine properties is on a unit of stripping costs are allocated between the performance of the operating production is determined when stable generating unit is estimated to be less than PPE is stated at cost less accumulated production basis resulting in an inventory produced and the stripping and sustained production capacity has segments, has been identified as the its carrying amount, the carrying amount of depreciation and impairment.
PPE will amortisation charge proportional to the activity asset by using an allocation basis board of directors.
the cash generating unit is reduced to its include capitalised development depletion of the proved and probable ore that is based on a relevant production recoverable amount.
Where an impairment Production royalty Inventories expenditure.
The unit of production can be on measure.
A stripping activity asset is loss subsequently reverses, the carrying that is directly attributable to the a tonnes or an ounce depleted basis.
accounted for as an addition to, or as an The Arab Republic of Egypt ARE is Inventories are valued at the lower of cost amount of the cash generating unit is acquisition of the item as well as the enhancement of, an existing asset and entitled to a royalty of 3% of net sales and net realisable value.
Costs including an Capitalised underground development increased to the revised estimate of its estimated cost of abandonment.
In the classified as tangible or intangible revenue revenue net of freight and refining appropriate portion of fixed and variable costs incurred to enable access to specific recoverable amount, but only to the extent event that settlement of all or part of the according to the nature of the existing costs as defined from the sale of gold and overhead expenses are assigned to ore blocks or areas of the underground that the increased carrying amount does purchase consideration is deferred, cost is asset of which it forms part.
A stripping associated minerals from the Sukari Gold inventory on hand by the method mine, and which only provide an economic not exceed the carrying amount that would determined by discounting the amounts activity asset is initially measured at cost Mine.
This royalty is calculated and appropriate to each particular class of benefit over the period of mining that ore have been determined had no impairment payable in the future to their present value and subsequently carried at cost or its recognised on receipt of the final certificate inventory, with the majority being valued block or area, are depreciated on a unit of loss been recognised for the cash as at the date of acquisition.
Subsequent revalued amount less depreciation or of analysis document received from the on a weighted average cost basis.
Net production basis, whereby the generating unit in prior years.
costs are included in the assets carrying amortisation and impairment losses.
Due to its nature, this royalty is not realisable value represents the estimated denominator is estimated ounces of gold in amount or recognised as a separate asset, A stripping activity asset is depreciated or recognised in cost of sales but rather in selling price less all estimated costs of A reversal of an impairment loss is proven and probable reserves within that as appropriate, only when it is probable amortised on a systematic basis, over the other operating costs.
completion and costs necessary to make recognised immediately in profit or loss, ore block or area where it is considered that future economic benefits associated expected useful life of the identified the sale.
unless the relevant asset is carried at a Other income probable that those resources will be with the item will flow to the group and the component of the orebody that becomes revalued amount, in which case the reversal Interest income Inventory comprises ore stockpiles, gold extracted economically.
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
more accessible as a result of the stripping of an impairment loss is treated as a in circuit and finished goods which are Interest income is recognised when it is Stripping activity assets The carrying amount of the replaced part is activity.
The stripping activity asset is revaluation increase.
valued by applying absorption costing probable that the economic benefits will The group defers stripping costs incurred derecognised.
All other repairs and depreciated using a unit of production methodology.
flow to the group and the amount of Revenue removal of mine waste materials which maintenance are charged to the income method based on the total ounces to be income can be measured reliably.
Interest Revenue is measured at the fair value of the Interests in joint arrangements provide improved access to further statement during the financial period in produced over the life of the component income is accrued on a time basis, by consideration received or receivable for The group applies IFRS 11 Joint quantities of material that will be mined in which they are incurred.
The cost of PPE of the orebody.
reference to the principal outstanding and goods and services in the normal course of future periods.
This waste removal activity arrangements.
Under IFRS 11, investments includes the estimated restoration costs Deferred stripping costs are included in at the effective interest rate applicable, business, net of discounts, VAT and other in joint arrangements are classified as is known as stripping.
There can be two associated with the asset.
stripping assets, within tangible assets.
which is the rate that exactly discounts salesrelated taxes.
benefits accruing to the entity from the either joint operations or joint ventures Depreciation is provided on PPE.
These form part of the total investment in estimated future cash receipts through the depending on the contractual rights and stripping activity: Sale of goods Depreciation is calculated on a straightline the relevant cash generating unit, which is expected life of the financial asset to that obligations each investor.
Joint ventures Revenue from the sale of mineral basis so as to write off the net cost or other usable ore that can be used to produce reviewed for impairment if events or a assets net carrying amount.
are accounted for using the equity method.
production is recognised when the group inventory: and revalued amount of each asset over its change in circumstances indicate that the Sharebased payments In relation to its interests in joint has passed the significant risks and rewards expected useful life to its estimated improved access to further quantities of carrying value may not be recoverable.
operations, the group recognises its share Equity settled sharebased payments with of ownership of the mineral production to residual value.
material that will be mined in future Amortisation of deferred stripping costs is of assets and liabilities: revenue from the employees and others providing similar the buyer, it is probable that economic periods.
The estimated useful lives, residual values sale of its share of the output: and its share services are measured at the fair value of benefits associated with the transaction will and depreciation method are reviewed at The costs of stripping activity to be As at 31 December 2017, no stripping costs of expenses.
the equity instrument at grant date.
Fair flow to the group, the sales price can be the end of each annual financial period, accounted for in accordance with the have been deferred.
value is measured by the use of the measured reliably, and the group has no SGM is wholly consolidated within the with the effect of any changes recognised principles of IAS 2 Inventories to the BlackScholes model.
Where sharebased Impairment of assets significant continuing involvement and the Centamin group of companies, reflecting on a prospective basis.
extent that the benefit from the stripping payments are subject to market conditions, other than exploration and costs incurred or to be incurred in respect the substance and economic reality of the activity is realised in the form of inventory evaluation and financial assets fair value was measured by the use of a Freehold land is not depreciated.
of the transaction can be measured Concession Agreement see note 23. produced.
The costs of stripping activity MonteCarlo simulation.
The fair value At each reporting date, the group reviews reliably.
This is when insurance risk has The following estimated useful lives are Leased assets which provides a benefit in the form of determined at the grant date of the equity the carrying amounts of its tangible and passed to the buyer and the goods have used in the calculation of depreciation: Leased assets are classified as finance improved access to ore is recognised as a settled sharebased payments is expensed intangible assets to determine whether there been collected at the agreed location.
leases when the terms of the lease transfer noncurrent stripping activity asset where Plant and equipment 2 20 years over the vesting period, based on the is any indication that those assets have Where the terms of the executed sales substantially all the risks and rewards the following criteria are met: consolidated entitys estimate of shares Office equipment 3 7 years suffered an impairment loss.
If any such agreement allow for an adjustment to the incidental to ownership of the leased asset Mining equipment 2 13 years that will eventually vest.
indication exists, the recoverable amount of it is probable that the future economic sales price based on a survey of the mineral to the lessee.
All other leases are classified Buildings 4 20 years the asset is estimated in order to determine benefit improved access to the production by the buyer for instance an as operating leases.
the extent of the impairment loss if any.
orebody associated with the stripping The gain or loss arising on the disposal or assay for gold content, recognition of the For the purposes of assessing impairment, activity will flow to the entity: scrappage of an asset is determined as the revenue from the sale of mineral production assets are grouped at the lowest levels for difference between the sales proceeds and is based on the most recently determined which there are largely independent cash the carrying amount of the asset and is estimate of product specifications.
