184 185 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued COMPANY LEGAL FORM AND STRUCTURE for the year ended 31 December 2017 30.
Related party transactions continued Centamin plc, number 109180 the The Articles of Association were adopted Directors indemnity insurance h Transactions with other related parties Company is a mineral exploration, on 15 December 2011 and, together with In accordance with the Companys Articles development and mining company dual the Memorandum of Association, are of Association and to the extent permitted Other related parties include the parent entity, subsidiaries, and other related parties.
listed on the London Stock Exchange available for inspection at the Companys by law, the Company may indemnify its During the financial period, the Company recognised tax payable in respect of the tax liabilities of its wholly owned subsidiaries.
LSE: CEY and the Toronto Stock Exchange registered office during normal office directors out of its own funds to cover Payments to from the Company are made in accordance with terms of the tax funding arrangement.
liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
During the financial period the Company provided funds to and received funding from subsidiaries.
The Company is incorporated in the island The liability of each member arising from The Company has entered into indemnity of Jersey with company number 109180. the members respective holding of a share agreements with each director to All amounts advanced to related parties are unsecured.
No expense has been recognised in the period for bad or doubtful debts in The Company conducts limited activity in in the Company is limited to the amount indemnify each director to the extent respect of amounts owed by related parties.
its own right, with certain of the subsidiary if any unpaid on it.
The Company has permitted by applicable law and excluding Transactions and balances between the Company and its subsidiaries were eliminated in the preparation of the consolidated financial entities carrying out exploration, unrestricted corporate capacity.
any matters involving fraud, dishonesty, statements of the group.
Details of wilful default or bad faith on the part of a Directors all subsidiaries are listed in note 23 to the director.
Directors may be appointed by ordinary financial statements.
The board may appoint a During the year, the Company paid a The Companys principal asset, the Sukari director but such a director may hold office premium in respect of a contract insuring The dividends paid in 2017 were US$184,388,830 and are reflected in the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the period Gold Mine, is operated by the Sukari Gold only until the dissolution of the next annual the directors and officers of the Company 2016: US$46,072,599.
Mining Company, a joint stock company general meeting after his appointment and any related corporate body against a A final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 of 10.0 US cents per share, totalling approximately US$115.2 million has established under the laws of Egypt, which unless he is reappointed during that liability incurred as a director or officer to been proposed by the board of directors and is subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 26 March 2018.
These is owned 50% by Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, meeting.
Each appointed director shall the extent permitted by law.
This provides financial statements do not reflect this dividend payable.
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, retire from office at each annual general insurance cover for any claim brought As announced on 9 January 2017, the update to the Companys dividend policy sets a minimum payout level relative to cash flow while and 50% held by the Egyptian Mineral meeting and may, if willing to act, be against directors or officers for wrongful considering the financial condition of, and outlook for, the Company.
When determining the amount to be paid, the board will take into Resource Authority.
acts in connection with their positions.
consideration the underlying profitability of the Company and significant known or expected funding commitments.
Specifically, the The insurance provided does not extend Articles of Association All directors must notify the Company of board will aim to approve an annual dividend of at least 30% of the Companys net cash flow after sustaining capital costs and following to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty The Articles of Association govern many any shares held, acquired or disposed of in the payment of profit share due to the government of Egypt.
and it does not provide cover for civil or aspects of the management of the the Company.
A register of director criminal fines or penalties imposed by law.
The Articles may only be shareholdings is held at the registered amended by a special resolution at a office which is open to inspection by the 32.
Subsequent events general meeting of the shareholders.
The directors are also required As referred to in note 31, subsequent to the year end, the board proposed a final dividend for 2017 of 10.0 US cents per share.
to disclose shares held by their connected Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting on 26 March 2018, the final dividend will be paid on 6 April 2018 parties.
Details of the interests of directors to shareholders on the record date of 23 March 2018. and their connected persons in the There were no other significant events occurring after the reporting date requiring disclosure in the financial statements.
Companys shares are outlined in the directors remuneration report.
Capital structure The capital structure of the Company is detailed in the schedule below, which reflects the total issued shares in the Company at 31 December 2017 and those held by trustees pursuant to the Companys share plans.
As at 31 December 2017 Issued capital including shares issued and held under the DBSP 1,152,107,984 Total shares in issue under the DBSP 939,716 The issued capital of the Company at the date of this report is 1,152,107,984 ordinary shares.
The Company may from time to time pass an ordinary resolution by a simple majority authorising the board to allot relevant securities up to the amount specified in the resolution.
The authority shall expire on the day specified in the resolution, not being more than five years after the date on which the resolution is passed.
Details of the share capital and reserves are set out in notes 18 and 19 to the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2017 AGM to purchase in the market up to 5% of the Companys issued shares, as permitted under the Companys Articles.
No shares were bought back under this authority during the year ended 31 December 2017.
This standard authority is renewable annually and the directors will seek to renew this authority at the 2018 AGM.
This resolution shall expire on 30 June 2018.
