Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Investment Manager Indemnifications NOTE 8 PUBLICATION AND Consistent with standard business practices in the CALCULATION OF NET ASSET VALUE normal course of business, the Company has provided The NAV of the Company is equal to the value of its total general indemnifications to the Investment Manager, any assets less its total liabilities.
The NAV per share is affiliate of the Investment Manager and any person acting calculated by dividing the net asset value by the number on behalf of the Investment Manager or such affiliate of shares in issue on that day.
The Company publishes when they act in good faith, in the best interest of the the NAV per share of the Ordinary shares as calculated, Company.
The Company is unable to develop an monthly in arrears, at each month-end, generally within estimate of the maximum potential amount of future 15 days.
payments that could potentially result from any NOTE 9 RELATED PARTY hypothetical future claim, but expects the risk of having to make any payments under these general business TRANSACTIONS indemnifications to be remote.
Other amounts payable to HarbourVest Advisers L. P. of $246,933 represent expenses of the Company incurred Directors and Officers Indemnifications in the ordinary course of business, which have been paid The Companys articles of incorporation provide that the by and are reimbursable to HarbourVest Advisers L. P. directors, managers or other officers of the Company at31 January 2017. shall be fully indemnified by the Company from and HarbourVest fund-of-funds invest in partnerships against all actions, expenses and liabilities which they managed by Sofinnova Partners, of which director may incur by reason of any contract entered into or any Jean-Bernard Schmidt is a former Managing Partner.
act in or about the execution of their offices, except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own negligence, Board-related expenses, primarily compensation, default, breach of duty or breach of trust respectively.
of$572,744 were incurred during the year ended 31January 2017.
NOTE 11 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS In the preparation of the financial statements, the Director Andrew Moore was also a director of Company has evaluated the effects, if any, of events HarbourVest Structured Solutions II GP Ltd. HVSS, occurring after 31 January 2017 to 11 May 2017, the date the general partner of HarbourVest Structured Solutions that the financial statements were issued.
II L. P. Andrew Moore resigned as a director of HVSS on25 February 2016.
On 31 March 2017, the Company committed $30 million to the HarbourVest 2017 Global Fund, a global multiNOTE 10 INDEMNIFICATIONS strategy fund-of-funds.
General Indemnifications On 31 March 2017, the Company committed $25 million In the normal course of business, the Company to HIPEP VIII Partnership Fund, a HarbourVest mayenter into contracts that contain a variety of international fund-of-funds programme.
representations and warranties and which provide for general indemnifications.
The Companys maximum On 28 April 2017, the Company committed an additional exposure under these arrangements is unknown, asthis $10 million to the HarbourVest 2017 Global Fund and an would involve future claims that may be made against the additional $32 million toHIPEP VIII Partnership Fund.
Company that have not yet occurred.
Basedon the prior There were no other events or material transactions experience of the Investment Manager, the Company subsequent to 31 January 2017 that required recognition expects the risk of loss underthese indemnifications or disclosure in the financial statements.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 99
