Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements At 31 January 2017, the Companys ordinary shares were NOTE 1 COMPANY ORGANISATION listed on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol AND INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE HVPE.
The Company delisted from Euronext Amsterdam HarbourVest Global Private Equity Limited the by NYSE Euronext in October 2016.
At 31 January 2017, Company or HVPE is a closed-end investment there were 79,862,486 ordinary shares issued and company registered with the Registrar of Companies in outstanding.
The ordinary shares are entitled to the Guernsey under The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 income and increases and decreases in the net asset as amended.
The Companys registered office is value NAV of the Company, and to any dividends Ground Floor, Dorey Court, Admiral Park, St Peter Port, declared and paid, and have full voting rights.
The Company was incorporated and may be declared by the Board of Directors and paid from registered in Guernsey on 18 October 2007.
HVPE is available assets subject to the directors being satisfied designed to offer shareholders long-term capital that the Company will, immediately after payment of the appreciation by investing in a diversified portfolio of dividend, satisfy the statutory solvency test prescribed by private equity investments.
TheCompany invests in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended.
private equity through private equity funds and may make co-investments or other opportunistic investments.
The Dividends will be paid to shareholders pro rata to their Company is managed by HarbourVest Advisers L. P. the shareholdings.
Investment Manager, an affiliate of HarbourVest The ordinary shareholders must approve any amendment Partners, LLC HarbourVest, a private equity fund-ofto the Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation.
The Company isintended to invest in approval of 75% of the ordinary shares is required in and alongside existing and newly-formed HarbourVest respect of any changes that are administrative in nature, funds.
HarbourVest is a global private equity fund-ofany material change from the investment strategy and or funds manager and typically invests capital in primary investment objective of the Company, or any change to partnerships, secondary investments, and direct the terms of the investment management agreement.
investments across vintage years, geographies, industries, and strategies.
There is no minimum statutory capital requirement under Guernsey law.
Operations of the Company commenced on 6 December 2007, following the initial global offering of the Class A Investment Manager, Company Secretary, ordinary shares.
andAdministrator The directors have delegated certain day-to-day Share Capital operations of the Company to the Investment Manager On 9 September 2015, HVPEs ordinary shares were and the Company Secretary and Fund Administrator, admitted to the Main Market of the London Stock under advice to the directors, pursuant to service Exchange.
The Companys market quote on the London agreements with those parties.
The Investment Manager Stock Exchange has been redenominated into sterling.
is responsible for, among other things, selecting, There has been no change to the legal form or nature acquiring, and disposing of the Companys investments, ofthe shares as a result of the redenomination of the carrying out financing, cash management, and risk market quote.
The 101 Class B shares wererepurchased management activities, providing investment advisory and cancelled during the year ended 31January 2016. services, including with respect to HVPEs investment The Company incurred non-recurring expenses of policies and procedures, and arranging for personnel $12,710 related to the listing which are included in the and support staff of the Investment Manager to assist in Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year the administrative and executive functions of the Company.
92 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
