156 157 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 extraction operation can be established.
Summary of significant Where the Company or other members of recognised to the extent that it is probable the same basis as the related asset, unless date of 30 June 2017.
The group reports its accounting policies continued that there will be sufficient taxable profits the present obligation arises from the mineral resources and ore reserves in Such estimates and assumptions may the consolidated group purchase the change from period to period as new Accounting policies continued Companys equity share capital, the against which to utilise the benefits of the production of the inventory in the period, accordance with NI 43101.
The most temporary differences and they are in which case the amount is included in the current statement has used an assumed information becomes available.
If, Sharebased payments continued consideration paid is deducted from the gold price of US$1,300 per ounce as a subsequent to the exploration and total shareholders equity of the group expected to reverse in the foreseeable cost of production for the period.
Changes Equity settled sharebased transactions future.
in the estimate of the provision of basis of preparation.
The information on evaluation expenditure being capitalised, and or of the Company as treasury shares with other parties are measured at the the mineral resources and ore reserves is a judgment is made that recovery of until they are cancelled.
Where such shares restoration and rehabilitation are treated in fair value of the goods or services received, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets the same manner, except that the prepared by qualified persons as defined the expenditure is unlikely or the project are subsequently sold or reissued, any except where the fair value cannot be is reviewed at the end of each reporting by the instrument.
is to be abandoned, the relevant consideration received is included in unwinding of the effect of discounting on estimated reliably, in which case they are period and reduced to the extent that it is the provision is recognised as a finance capitalised amount will be written off to shareholders equity of the group and or measured at the fair value of the equity There are numerous uncertainties inherent no longer probable that sufficient taxable the income statement.
cost within other operating costs rather instruments granted, measured at the profits will be available to allow all or part in estimating mineral resources and ore than being capitalised into the cost of the date the entity obtains the goods or the Litigation Taxation reserves.
Assumptions that are valid at the of the asset to be recovered.
The fair time of estimation may change significantly The group exercises judgment in Income tax expense represents the sum of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are value of the employee services received when new information becomes available.
measuring and recognising provisions the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
measured at the tax rates that are in exchange for the grant of the options and the exposures to contingent liabilities 4.
Critical accounting judgments Impairment of assets Current tax expected to apply in the period in which is recognised as an expense.
The total related to pending litigation, as well as other than exploration and Critical judgments in applying the liability is settled or the asset realised, The tax currently payable is based on amount to be expensed is determined other contingent liabilities see note 22 to evaluation and financial assets the entitys accounting policies based on tax rates and tax laws that have taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit by reference to the fair value of the the financial statements.
Judgment is IFRS requires management to test for The following are the critical judgments been enacted or substantively enacted by differs from profit as reported in the options granted: necessary in assessing the likelihood that a impairment if events or changes in that management has made in the process the end of the reporting period.
The consolidated statement of comprehensive pending claim will succeed, or a liability will including any market performance circumstances indicate that the carrying of applying the groups accounting policies measurement of deferred tax liabilities and income because of items of income or arise, and to quantify the possible range of conditions for example, an entitys amount of a finite live asset may not be and that have the most significant effect assets reflects the tax consequences that expense that are taxable or deductible in the financial settlement.
Management has concluded on the amounts recognised in the would follow from the manner in which the other periods and items that are never that there is no indication that an excluding the impact of any service and financial statements.
group expects, at the end of the reporting The group is currently a party to two legal taxable or deductible.
The groups liability impairment exists, nor have any indicators nonmarket performance vesting period, to recover or settle the carrying actions, both of which could affect its for current tax is calculated using tax rates Management has discussed its critical arisen after the reporting period, and are conditions for example, profitability amount of its assets and liabilities.
ability to operate the mine at Sukari in the that have been enacted or substantively accounting judgments and associated therefore not required to perform a full and remaining an employee of the manner in which it is currently operated enacted by the end of the reporting period.
disclosures with the Companys audit and Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset impairment review under IAS 36. entity over a specified time period : and and adversely affect its profitability.
Deferred tax when there is a legally enforceable right to including the impact of any nonvesting details of this litigation, which relate to the In making its assessment as to the set off current tax assets against current tax Deferred tax is recognised on temporary Ore reserves conditions for example, the loss of the Egyptian national subsidy for possibility of whether impairment losses liabilities and when they relate to income differences between the carrying amounts Estimates of recoverable quantities of requirement for employees to save Diesel Fuel Oil and the Concession having arisen, management considered the taxes levied by the same taxation authority of assets and liabilities in the financial reserves include assumptions on or holding shares for a specific period Agreement under which Sukari operates, following indications: and the group intends to settle its current statements and the corresponding tax commodity prices, exchange rates, of time.
are given in note 22 to the financial tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
bases used in the computation of taxable internal sources of information: discount rates and production costs for statements and in the most recently filed When the options are exercised, the profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally Restoration and rehabilitation future cash flows.
It also involves external sources of information: and Annual Information Form AIF which is Company issues new shares.
The proceeds recognised for all taxable temporary assessment and judgment of complex A provision for restoration and litigation.
available on SEDAR at www.
received net of any directly attributable differences.
Deferred tax assets are geological models.
The economic, rehabilitation is recognised when there is Although it is possible to quantify the The key assumptions previously applied in transaction costs are credited to share generally recognised for all deductible geological and technical factors used to a present legal or constructive obligation effects of the loss of the national fuel impairment reviews are: capital nominal value and share premium.
temporary differences to the extent that it estimate ore reserves may change from as a result of exploration, development subsidy, it is not currently possible to is probable that taxable profits will be forecast gold prices: The expected life used in the model has period to period.
Changes in ore reserves and production activities undertaken, quantify with sufficient precision the available against which those deductible affect the carrying values of mine been adjusted, based on managements it is probable that an outflow of economic discount rate: impact of any restrictions placed on the temporary differences can be utilised.
Such best estimate, for the effects of properties, property, plant and equipment, benefits will be required to settle the production volumes: terms of the groups operations under the deferred tax assets and liabilities are not provision for rehabilitation assets and nontransferability, exercise restrictions, obligation, and the amount of the Concession Agreement.
reserves and resources report: and recognised if the temporary difference and behavioural considerations.
Ore reserves are integral to provision can be measured reliably.
Every action is being taken to contest these arises from goodwill or from the initial the amount of depreciation and details on how the fair value of equity The estimated future obligations include decisions, including the making of formal recognition other than in a business Recovery of capitalised settled sharebased transactions has been amortisation charged to the consolidated the costs of dismantling and removal of legal appeals and, although their resolution exploration evaluation combination of other assets and liabilities statement of comprehensive income and determined can be found in note 20.
At facilities, restoration and monitoring of and development expenditure may still take some time, management in a transaction that affects neither the each reporting date, the group revises its the calculation in the valuation of inventory.
The provision for future remains confident that a satisfactory taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The groups accounting policy for estimate of the number of equity restoration costs is the best estimate of the Production forecasts from the underground outcome will ultimately be achieved.
exploration and evaluation expenditure instruments expected to vest.
The impact present value of the expenditure required Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for mine at Sukari are partly based on In the meantime, however, the group is results in exploration and evaluation of the revision of the original estimates, if to settle the restoration obligation at the taxable temporary differences associated estimates regarding future resource and continuing to pay international prices for expenditure being capitalised for those any, is recognised in profit or loss over the reporting date.
Future restoration costs are with investments in subsidiaries and reserve growth.
It should be specifically Diesel Fuel Oil.
With respect to the projects where such expenditure is remaining vesting period, with reviewed annually and any changes in the associates, and interests in joint ventures, noted that the potential quantity and grade Administrative Court ruling, on 20 March considered likely to be recoverable through corresponding adjustment to the equity estimate are reflected in the present value except where the group is able to control from the Sukari underground mine is 2013 the Supreme Administrative Court future extraction activity or sale or where settled employee benefits reserve.
of the restoration provision at each the reversal of the temporary difference conceptual in nature, that there has been upheld the Companys application to the exploration activities have not reached reporting date.
and it is probable that the temporary Issued capital insufficient exploration to define a mineral suspend this decision until the merits of a stage which permits a reasonable difference will not reverse in the resource and that it is uncertain if further The initial estimate of the restoration and Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
the Companys appeal are considered and assessment of the existence of reserves.
Deferred tax assets exploration will result in the target being Incremental costs directly attributable to rehabilitation provision relating to ruled on, thus providing assurance that arising from deductible temporary This policy requires management to make delineated as a mineral resource.
exploration, development and mining the issue of new shares or options are normal operations will be able to continue certain estimates and assumptions as to differences associated with such shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, production activities is capitalised into the during this process.
Mineral reserve and resource statement investments and interests are only future events and circumstances, in cost of the related asset and amortised on from the proceeds.
The group published a mineral reserve and particular whether the group will proceed resource statement for the Sukari Gold with development based on existence of Mine on 10 January 2018 with an effective reserves or whether an economically viable
