140 141 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Centamin plc Directors responsibilities The directors are also responsible for The financial statements have been audited Report on the audit of the financial Independence Key Audit Matters in respect of the annual report by the independent audit and accounting statements safeguarding the assets of the group and We remained independent of the group in The appeal before the Supreme and financial statements hence for taking reasonable steps for the firm,  LLP, who Opinion accordance with the ethical requirements Administrative Court in Egypt The directors are responsible for preparing were given unrestricted access to all prevention and detection of fraud and In our opinion, Centamin Plcs group that are relevant to our audit of the financial concerning the validity of the Sukari the annual report and the financial other irregularities.
financial records and related information, financial statements the financial statements in the UK, which includes the Concession Agreement.
statements in accordance with applicable including minutes of all shareholder, board statements : FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to The claim before the Administrative The directors are responsible for the law and regulations.
listed entities, and we have fulfilled our Court concerning diesel fuel disputes.
maintenance and integrity of the give a true and fair view of the state of other ethical responsibilities in accordance Company law requires the directors to Companys website.
Legislation in the The financial statements were approved by Amounts due to government with the groups affairs as at 31 December with these requirements.
prepare financial statements for each United Kingdom and Jersey governing the the board of directors on 31 January 2018 respect to operating and exploration 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for financial year.
Under that law the directors preparation and dissemination of financial and signed on their behalf by Andrew Our audit approach properties.
the year then ended: have prepared the group financial statements may differ from legislation in Pardey CEO and Ross Jerrard CFO.
Overview Impairment of Exploration and have been properly prepared in statements in accordance with International other jurisdictions.
Evaluation Assets in West Africa.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Overall group materiality: $9.5 million Each of the directors, whose names and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as the European Union: and 2016: $6.78 million, based on 5%of Reserves and Resources Statement.
functions are listed in the directors report, The directors consider that the annual adopted by the European Union.
Under three year average of profit before tax, report and financial statements, taken as a confirm that, to the best of their have been prepared in accordance with The scope of our audit company law the directors must not after exceptional items, weighted on knowledge: the requirements of the Companies whole, is fair, balanced and understandable As part of designing our audit, we approve the group financial statements production.
and provides the information necessary for Jersey Law 1991. determined materiality and assessed the the group financial statements, which unless they are satisfied that they give a We focused our audit procedures on shareholders to assess the groups We have audited the financial statements, risks of material misstatement in the have been prepared in accordance with true and fair view of the state of affairs of performance, business model and strategy.
the Sukari Gold Mine, as well as financial statements.
In particular, we IFRSs as adopted by the European included within the Annual Report, which the group and of the profit or loss of the performing audit procedures over the comprise: the consolidated statement of looked at where the directors made The directors have undertaken a robust Union, give a true and fair view of the group for that period.
In preparing the Groups significant exploration and subjective judgements, for example in assessment of the principal risks impacting assets, liabilities, financial position and financial position as at 31 December 2017: financial statements, the directors are corporate operations.
One component the consolidated statement of respect of significant accounting estimates the Company.
The assessment identified profit of the group: and required to: and the parent entity were subject to an that involved making assumptions and strategic and operational risks at a comprehensive income, the consolidated the strategic report includes a fair select suitable accounting policies and audit of their complete financial statement of cash flows, and the considering future events that are corporate level and principal risks review of the development and then apply them consistently: information whilst a further four were inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits impacting our operations in Egypt and consolidated statement of changes in performance of the business and the subject to specific audit procedures state whether applicable IFRSs as equity for the year then ended: and the we also addressed the risk of management West Africa.
Details of the risk assessment position of the group, together with a over material balances.
Audit adopted by the European Union have override of internal controls, including can be found in the audit and risk report on notes to the financial statements, which description of the principal risks and procedures were performed in Egypt been followed, subject to any material include a description of the significant testing journals and evaluating whether pages 137 and 138 and the risk uncertainties that it faces.
departures disclosed and explained in there was evidence of bias by the directors management section on pages 34 to 37. accounting policies.
In the case of each director in office at the the financial statements: All audit work on key audit matters was that represented a risk of material Basis for opinion The board receives written assurances from date the directors report is approved: performed by the Group make judgments and accounting misstatement due to fraud.
We conducted our audit in accordance the CEO and CFO that to the best of their engagement team.
estimates that are reasonable and so far as the director is aware, there is Key audit matters knowledge and belief, the groups financial with International Standards on Auditing prudent: and no relevant audit information of which UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our Key audit matters are those matters that, in position presents a true and fair view and prepare the financial statements on the the groups auditors are unaware: and the auditors professional judgement, were that the financial statements are founded responsibilities under ISAs UK are further going concern basis unless it is they have taken all the steps that they described in the Auditors responsibilities of most significance in the audit of the on a sound system of risk management, inappropriate to presume that the ought to have taken as a director in financial statements of the current period internal compliance and control.
Further, for the audit of the financial statements group will continue in business.
order to make themselves aware of any Materiality they confirm that the groups risk section of our report.
We believe that the and include the most significant assessed relevant audit information and to The directors are responsible for keeping risks of material misstatement whether or management and internal compliance is audit evidence we have obtained is establish that the groups auditors are adequate accounting records that are operating efficiently and effectively.
The sufficient and appropriate to provide a not due to fraud identified by the auditors, aware of that information.
sufficient to show and explain the groups including those which had the greatest board recognises that internal control basis for our opinion.
Audit transactions and disclose with reasonable assurances from the CEO and CFO can Scope effect on: the overall audit strategy: the On behalf of the board: accuracy at any time the financial position allocation of resources in the audit: and only be reasonable rather than absolute, of the group and enable them to ensure and therefore they are not and cannot be directing the efforts of the engagement that the financial statements and the team.
These matters, and any comments designed to detect all weaknesses in Key Audit directors remuneration report comply with control procedures.
we make on the results of our procedures Matters The Companies Jersey Law, 1991 and, as thereon, were addressed in the context of regards the group financial statements, our audit of the financial statements as a Andrew Pardey Ross Jerrard Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, Chief executive officer Chief financial officer and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list 31 January 2018 31 January 2018 of all risks identified by our audit.
