172 173 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued for the year ended 31 December 2017 20.
Sharebased payments continued As at the date of this document, no decision had been taken by the courts regarding this matter.
The group has received an Deferred bonus share plan DBSP continued unfavourable State Commissioners report in the case: however, the report is nonbinding and the groups legal advisers remain of the view that the group has a strong case.
The group remains of the view that an instant move to international fuel prices is not a reasonable DBSP awards granted during the period: outcome and will look to recover funds advanced thus far should the court action be successfully concluded.
However, management DBSP 2017 recognises the practical difficulties associated with reclaiming funds from the government and for this reason has fully provided against Grant date 4 June 2017 the prepayment of US$274 million.
Refer to note 12 of these financial statements for further details on the impact of this provision on the Number of instruments 300,000 groups results for 31 December 2017.
1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 1 1.66 No provision has been made in respect of the historic subsidies prior to January 2012 as, based on legal advice, the Company believes 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 1 US$ 2.13 that, notwithstanding the unfavourable State Commissioners report, the prospects of a court finding in its favour in relation to this 1 matter remain very strong.
Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 2 1.61 1 Concession Agreement court case Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 2 US$ 2.06 1 On 30 October 2012, the Administrative Court in Egypt handed down a judgment in relation to a claim brought by, amongst others, Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 3 1.54 an independent member of a previous parliament, in which he argued for the nullification of the agreement that confers on the group 1 Share price fair value at grant date Tranche 3 US$ 1.97 rights to operate in Egypt.
This agreement, the Concession Agreement, was entered into between the Arab Republic of Egypt, the 2 Vesting period Tranche 1 years 1 Egyptian Mineral Resources Authority and Centamins wholly owned subsidiary Pharaoh Gold Mines, and was approved by the Peoples 2 Assembly as Law 222 of 1994.
Vesting period Tranche 2 years 2 2 In summary that judgment states that, although the Concession Agreement itself remains valid and in force, insufficient evidence had Vesting period Tranche 3 years 3 2 been submitted to court in order to demonstrate that the 160km exploitation lease between PGM and EMRA had received approval Expected dividend yield Tranche 1 % 3.67% from the relevant minister as required by the terms of the Concession Agreement.
Accordingly, the Court found that the exploitation Expected dividend yield Tranche 2 % 3.40% 2 lease in respect of the area of 160km was not valid although it stated that there was in existence such a lease in respect of an area of 2 2 3km.
Centamin, however, is in possession of the executed original lease documentation which clearly shows that the 160km Expected dividend yield Tranche 3 % 3.73% exploitation lease was approved by the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources.
It appears that an executed original document 1 The fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP were calculated by using the closing share price on grant date, converted at the closing GBP:US$ foreign exchange rate on that day.
No other factors were taken into account in determining the fair value of the shares awarded under the DBSP.
was not supplied to the court in the first instance.
2 Variable vesting dependent on one to three years of continuous employment.
Upon notification of the judgment the group took various steps to protect its ability to continue to operate the mine at Sukari.
These included lodging a formal appeal before the Supreme Administrative Court on 26 November 2012.
In addition, in conjunction with the 21.
Commitments formal appeal the group applied to the Supreme Administrative Court to suspend the initial decision until such time as the court was The following is a summary of the Companys outstanding commitments as at 31 December 2017: able to consider and rule on the merits of the appeal.
On 20 March 2013 the Court upheld this application thus suspending the initial decision and providing assurance that normal operations would be able to continue whilst the appeal process was underway.
Operating lease commitments The future aggregate minimum lease payments under noncancellable operating leases are as follows: EMRA lodged its own appeal in relation to this matter on 27 November 2012, the day after the Companys appeal was lodged, supporting the groups view in this matter.
Furthermore, in late December 2012, the Minister of Petroleum lodged a supporting appeal 31 December 31 December and shortly thereafter publicly indicated that, in his view, the terms of the Concession Agreement were fair and that the exploitation 2017 2016 lease was valid.
The Minister of Petroleum also expressed support for the investment and expertise that Centamin brings to the country.
US$000 US$000 The Company believes this demonstrates the governments commitment to the groups investment at Sukari and the governments Office premises desire to stimulate further investment in the Egyptian mining industry.
No longer than one year 85 56 The Supreme Administrative Court has stayed the Concession Agreement appeal until the Supreme Constitutional Court has ruled on Longer than one year and not longer than five years 340 47 the validity of Law no.
32 of 2014 restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge contractual agreements Longer than five years 297 between the Egyptian government and an investor.
This law, whilst in force and ratified by the new parliament, is currently under review by the Supreme Constitutional Court SCC.
During Q2 2017, the SCC rereferred the case to the state commissioner to prepare a 722 103 complementary report to an initial report provided by the state commissioner in Q1 2017 which found Law no.
Operating lease commitments are limited to office premises in Jersey.
The state commissioners report and complementary report are advisory and nonbinding on the SCC.
The Company continues to believe that it has a strong legal position and that in the event that the SCC rules that Law no.
32 is invalid, the group remains confident that its own appeal will be successful on the merits.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets Contingent liabilities The Company does not yet know when the appeal will conclude, although it is aware of the potential for the process in Egypt to be Fuel supply lengthy.
The Company has taken extensive legal advice on the merits of its appeal from a number of leading Egyptian law firms who have confirmed that the proper steps were followed with regard to the grant of the 160km lease.
It therefore remains of the view that As set out in note 12 above, in January 2012, the group received a letter from Chevron to the effect that Chevron would only be able to supply DFO Diesel Fuel Oil to the mine at Sukari at international prices rather than at local subsidised prices.
It is understood that the the appeal is based on strong legal grounds and will ultimately be successful.
In the event that the appellate court fails to be persuaded of the merits of the case put forward by the group, the operations at Sukari may be adversely effected to the extent that the groups reason that this letter was issued was that Chevron had received a letter instructing it to do so from the EGPC.
It is further understood that EGPC itself issued this instruction because it had received legal advice from the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State operation exceeds the exploitation lease area of 3km referred to in the original court decision.
an internal government advisory department that companies operating in the gold mining sector in Egypt were not entitled to such The Company remains confident that normal operations at Sukari will be maintained whilst the appeal case is heard.
In November 2012, the group received a further demand from Chevron for the repayment of fuel subsidies received during Contingent assets the period from late 2009 through to January 2012, for EGP403 million approximately US$22.7 million at current exchange rates.
There were no contingent assets at year end 31 December 2016: nil.
The group has taken detailed legal advice on this matter and, in particular, on the opinion given by the Legal Advice Department of the Council of State and in June 2012 lodged an appeal against EGPCs decision in the Administrative Courts.
Again, the group believes that its grounds for appeal are strong and that there is a good prospect of success.
However, as a practical matter, and in order to ensure the continuation of supply whilst the matter is resolved, the group has since January 2012 advanced funds to its fuel supplier, based on the international price for fuel.
