Strategic report Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2018 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Mark Dixon and Dominik fide Daniel.
IWG plc is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey and registered and domiciled in Switzerland.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
IWG plc owns a network of business centres which are utilised by a variety of business customers.
Information on the Groups structure is provided in note 32, and information on other related party relationships of the Group is provided in note 31.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991 and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The Company prepares its parent company annual accounts in accordance with accounting policies based on the Swiss Code of Obligations: extracts from these are presented on page 126.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the parent company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in joint ventures.
The extract from the parent company annual accounts presents information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
Amendments to adopted IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC with an effective date from 1 January 2017 did not have a material effect on the Group financial statements, unless otherwise indicated.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to standards were adopted by the Group for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017: IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses Amendments to IAS 12 Various Annual Improvements 2012 2014 Cycle Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the consolidated financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 33.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, with the exception of certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as described in note 24.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements on pages 80 to 125.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors have considered the further information included in the business activities commentary as set out on pages 24 to 27 as well as the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 38 to 43.
Further details on the going concern basis of preparation can be found in note 24 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
These Group consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is IWG plcs functional currency, and all values are in million pounds, rounded to one decimal place, except where indicated otherwise.
The attributable results of those companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the periods of ownership.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases or the joint venture qualifies as a disposal group, at which point the investment is carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in a joint venture, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of a joint venture.
