INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF IWG PLC The key audit matter OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM There is a risk that the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill OUR AUDIT and intangible assets will be more than the estimated recoverable 1.
Our opinion is unmodified amount, if future cash flows are not sufficient to recover the We have audited the consolidated financial statements of IWG plc Groups investment.
This could occur if forecasted cash flows for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the decline in certain markets or where revenue and costs are subject consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement to significant fluctuations.
The recoverability of goodwill is spread of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the across multiple geographies and economies, and is dependent on consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated individual businesses acquired achieving or sustaining sufficient cash flow statement and the related accounting policies and notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their We focus on this area due to the inherent uncertainty involved preparation is Jersey Law and International Financial Reporting in forecasting and discounting future cash flows, particularly in Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
projected revenue growth, which forms the basis of the assessment In our opinion: of recoverability.
the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of How the matter was addressed in our audit the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group as at 31 Our audit procedures in this area included, among others, assessing December 2017 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Groups impairment model for each group of CGUs and the consolidated financial statements have been properly evaluating the assumptions used by the Group in the model, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting specifically the cash flow projections, perpetuity rates and Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and discount rates.
We considered the historical accuracy of the consolidated financial statements have been properly the Groups forecasts.
We obtained and documented our prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies understanding of the impairment testing process and tested Jersey Law 1991. the design and implementation of the relevant controls therein.
We used valuation specialists to assist us in evaluating the Basis for opinion judgements and methodologies used by the Group, in particular We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards those relating to the discount rate used to determine the present on Auditing ISAs.
Our responsibilities under those standards are value of the cash flow projections.
further described in the Auditors Responsibilities section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the We compared the Groups assumptions, where possible, to ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial externally derived data and performed our own assessment in statements in Jersey, together with the International Ethics relation to key model inputs.
We checked the mathematical Standards Board for Accountants' Code of Ethics for Professional accuracy of the model.
We examined the sensitivity analysis Accountants IESBA Code and we have fulfilled our other ethical performed by Group management and performed our own responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
sensitivity analysis in relation to the key assumptions.
We also compared the sum of projected discounted cash flows to the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient market capitalization of the Group to assess whether the projected and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
We also assessed whether the 2.
Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of disclosures as set out in Note 12 were appropriate and in material misstatement compliance with IAS 36.
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional As a result of our work, noting that no impairments were identified judgment, were of most significance in the audit of the financial by the Group, we found that these judgements were supported by statements and include the most significant assessed risks of reasonable assumptions.
We found the disclosures to be adequate.
material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall Taxation current tax liabilities of 21.6m 2016: 17.7m : audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing deferred tax assets of 23.0m 2016: 29.3m and the efforts of the engagement team.
deferred tax liabilities of 1.3m 2016: 2.4m Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee, page 90 These matters were addressed, and our results are based on accounting policy and Note 9 to the Group Financial Statements.
procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and The key audit matter in forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental The Group operates in numerous tax jurisdictions around the world.
to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on As a result, the tax charge on profits is determined according to a these matters.
variety of complex tax laws and regulations.
The Group encounters In arriving at our audit opinion above, the key audit matters, challenges by tax authorities on a range of tax matters during the in decreasing order of significance, were as follows: normal course of business and recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes Goodwill and intangible assets of 712.1m will be due.
The calculation of these liabilities is underpinned by 2016: 738.1m judgemental assumptions as the ultimate tax determination is Refer to page 59 Report of the Audit Committee, page 88 uncertain.
The related deferred tax assets and liabilities require accounting policy and Notes 12 and 13 to the Group judgement in determining the amounts to be recognized with Financial Statements.
consideration to the timing and level of future taxable income.
