Notes to the financial statements 1.
Accounting policies Corporate information Glencore plc the Company, Parent, the Group or Glencore, is a leading integrated producer and marketer ofnatural resources, with worldwide activities in the production, refinement, processing, storage, transport and marketing of metals and minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
Glencore operates on a global scale, marketing and distributing physical commodities sourced from third party producers and own production to industrial consumers, such as those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and food processing industries.
Glencore also provides financing, logistics and other services to producers and consumers of commodities.
In this regard, Glencore seeks to capture value throughout the commodity supply chain.
Glencores long experience as a commodity producer and merchant has allowed it to develop and build upon its expertise in the commodities which it markets and cultivate long-term relationships with a broad supplier and customer base across diverse industries and in multiple geographicregions.
Glencore plc is a publicly traded limited company incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Switzerland.
Its ordinary shares are traded on the London and Johannesburg stockexchanges.
On 31 January 2018, the Company delisted its shares from the HongKong stockexchange.
These consolidated financial statements were authorised forissue in accordance with a Directors resolution on 1 March 2018.
Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and interpretations as adopted by the European Union EU effective as of 31December2017, and IFRS and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB effective as of 31December 2017 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as well as the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date ofthe financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Estimates and assumptions are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable and relevant under the circumstances, independent estimates, quoted market prices and common, industry standard modelling techniques.
Actual outcomes could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets orliabilities affected in futureperiods.
Glencore has identified the following areas as being critical tounderstanding Glencores financial position as they require management to make complex and or subjective judgements, estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherentlyuncertain: Critical accounting judgements In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made the following judgements based onthe relevant facts and circumstances including macro-economic circumstances and, where applicable, interpretation of underlying agreements, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the consolidated financialstatements.
i Determination of control of subsidiaries and joint arrangements note 33 Judgement is required to determine when Glencore has control of subsidiaries or joint control of joint arrangements.
This requires an assessment of the relevant activities those relating to the operating and capital decisions of the arrangement, such as: theapproval of the capital expenditure programme for each year, and appointing, remunerating andterminating the key management personnel or service providers of the operations and when the decisions in relation to those activities are under the control of Glencore orrequire unanimous consent.
See note 24 for a summary of the acquisitions of subsidiaries completed during the year and the key judgements made in determining control thereof.
Judgement is also required in determining the classification of ajoint arrangement between a joint venture or a joint operation through an evaluation of the rights and obligations arising from the arrangement and in particular, if the joint arrangement has been structured through a separate vehicle, further consideration is required of whether: 1 the legal form of the separate vehicle gives the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities: 2 the contractual terms and conditions give the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities: and 3 other facts and circumstances give the parties rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities.
Joint arrangements in which the primary activity is the provision of output to the shareholders, typically convey substantially all the economic benefits of the assets to the parties and judgement is required in assessing whether the terms of the offtake agreements and any other obligations forliabilities of the arrangement result in the parties being substantially the only source of cash flows contributing to thecontinuity of the operations of the arrangement.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 128 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Certain joint arrangements that are structured through separate vehicles including Collahuasi, Glencore Agri and QHG are accounted for as joint ventures.
The Collahuasi arrangement isprimarily designed for the provision of output to the shareholders sharing joint control, the offtake terms of which are at prevailing market prices and the parties are not obligated to cover any potential funding shortfalls.
In managements judgement, Glencore is not the only possible source of funding and does not have a direct or indirect obligation to the liabilities of the arrangement, but rather shares in its net assets and, therefore, such arrangements have been accounted for as jointventures.
Differing conclusions around these judgements, may materially impact how these businesses are presented in the consolidated financial statements under the full consolidation method, equity method or recognition of Glencores share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, including any assets or liabilities held jointly.
See note 9 for a summary of these joint arrangements and the key judgements made in determining the applicable accounting treatment for the material joint arrangements entered during theyear.
ii Credit and performance risk note 25 The Groups global marketing operations expose it to credit and performance the risk that counterparties fail to sell or purchase physical commodities on agreed terms risks: these arise particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility with limited liquidity and terminal markets and when global and or regional macro-economic conditions areweak.
Continuously, but particularly during such times, judgement is required to determine whether receivables, loans and advances are recoverable and if contracted product deliveries will be received.
Judgements about recoverability and contractual performance may materially impact both non-current and current assets as recognised in the statement of financialposition.
Any estimation uncertainty related to these judgements is not anticipated to result in a material change to the carrying value of these assets within the next financial year.
iii Classification of transactions which contain a financing element notes 19, 20 and 23 Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain a financing element such as extended payment terms.
Judgement is required to determine the most appropriate classification and presentation of these transactions within the statements of cash flows and financial position.
In determining the appropriate classification, management considers the underlying economic substance of the transaction and the significance of the financing element to the transaction.
Typically the economic substance ofthe transaction is determined to be operating in nature, i. e. predominantly related to the sale or purchase of commodities as the financing element is insignificant and the entire cash flow will therefore be presented as operating in the statement of cash flow with acorresponding trade receivable or payable in the statement of financial position.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty In the process of applying Glencores accounting policies, management has made key estimates and assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty.
The key assumptions and estimates at the reporting date that have a significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are described below.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and may materially affect financial results or the financial position reported in futureperiods.
i Recognition of deferred tax assets note 6 Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent it is considered probable that those assets will be recoverable.
This involves an assessment of when those deferred tax assets are likely to reverse, and a judgement as to whether there will be sufficient taxable income available to offset the tax assets when they do reverse.
These judgements and estimates are subject to risk and uncertainty and therefore, to the extent assumptions regarding future profitability change, there can be a material increase or decrease in the amounts recognised in the consolidated statement of income in the period in which the change occurs.
The recoverability of deferred tax assets including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly bymanagement.
ii Impairments and impairment reversals notes 4 and 5 Investments in associates and joint ventures, other investments, advances and loans, property, plant and equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be fully recoverable or at least annually for goodwill and other indefinite life intangible assets.
If an assets recoverable amount is less than the assets carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
For those assets which were impaired in prior periods, if their recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount, an impairment reversal is recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
Future cash flow estimates which are used to calculate the assets fair value are discounted using asset specific discount rates and are based on expectations about future operations, primarily comprising estimates about production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, reserves and resources, operating costs, rehabilitation and restoration costs and capital expenditures.
Estimates are reviewed regularly by management.
Changes in such estimates and in particular, deterioration in the pricing outlook, could impact the recoverable values of these assets, whereby some or all of the carrying amount may be impaired or the impairment charge reversed if pricing outlook improves significantly with the impact recorded in the statement of income.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 129 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iii Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs note 21 A provision for future restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs requires estimates and assumptions tobe made around the relevant regulatory framework, the magnitude of the possible disturbance and the timing, extent and costs of the required closure and rehabilitation activities.
Most of these rehabilitation and decommissioning events are expected to take place many years in the future and the currently estimated requirements and costs that will have to be met when the restoration event occurs are inherently uncertain and could materially change over time.
In calculating the appropriate provision for the expected restoration, rehabilitation or decommissioning obligations, cost estimates of the future potential cash outflows based on current studies of the expected rehabilitation activities and timing thereof, are prepared.
These forecasts are then discounted to their present value using a risk free rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated.
Any changes in the expected future costs are initially reflected in both the provision and the asset and subsequently in the consolidated statement of income over the remaining economic life of the asset.
As the actual future costs can differ from the estimates due to changes in laws, regulations, technology, costs and timing, the provisions including the estimates and assumptions contained therein are reviewed regularly by management.
Change in estimate In the prior year, estimates for potential likely prolongation of the underlying timing assumptions and an anticipated benefit of eventually realising costs lower than those estimated, were combined with the country currency specific risk free rates in deriving applicable liability specific discount rates.
In the current year, these cost and timing considerations have been incorporated directly into the underlying cash flow forecasts with the revised estimates discounted using a risk free rate specific to the liability and currency in which the forecasts are denominated.
As a result of this change in estimate, there was no initial impact on equity as the rehabilitation provision increased by $312 million, with a resulting equivalent increase in property, plant and equipment.
iv Fair value measurements notes 9, 11, 24, 26 and 27 In addition to recognising derivative instruments at fair value, as discussed below, an assessment of the fair value of assets and liabilities is also required in accounting for other transactions, most notably, business combinations and marketing inventories and disclosures related to fair values offinancial assets and liabilities.
In such instances, fair value measurements are estimated based on the amounts for which the assets and liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date or reporting period end, and are therefore not necessarily reflective of the likely cash flow upon actual settlements.
Where fair value measurements cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and other valuation methods.
Tothe extent possible, the assumptions and inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs.
However, such information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where comparable market-based transactions often do notexist.
Derivative instruments are carried at fair value for which Glencore evaluates the quality and reliability of the assumptions and data used to measure fair value in the three hierarchy levels, Level 1, 2 and 3, as prescribed by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair values are determined in the following ways: externally verified via comparison to quoted market prices in active markets Level 1 : by using models with externally verifiable inputs Level 2 : or by using alternative procedures such as comparison to comparable instruments and or using models with unobservable market inputs requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions Level 3.
Level 3 inputs therefore include the highest level ofestimation uncertainty.
Adoption of revised standards In the current year, Glencore has applied revised IFRS standards which were adopted as of 1 January 2017: i Amendments to IAS 12 Recognition of deferred tax assets for unrealised losses The amendment to IAS 12 clarifies the accounting treatment for deferred tax assets related to debt instruments measured at fair value.
The adoption of this amendment has had no material impact on the Group.
ii Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of cash flows: Disclosure initiative The amendment to IAS 7 requires entities to provide disclosures about changes in their liabilities arising from financing activities, including changes arising from financing cash flows and non-cash changes such as foreign exchange movements.
The Group has included a reconciliation of cash flow movements in borrowings in note 19 to comply with this amendment.
New and revised standards not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these consolidated financial statements, the following new and revised IFRS standards, which are applicable to Glencore, were issued but are not yeteffective: i Amendments to IFRS 2 Classification and measurement of share-based payment transactions effective for year ends beginning on or after 1January 2018 The amendments to IFRS 2 Share-based payments clarify the classification and measurement of share-based payments transactions with respect to accounting for cash-settled share-based payment transactions that include a performance obligation, the classification of share-based payment transactions with net settlement features and the accounting formodifications of share-based payment transactions from cash-settled to equity-settled.
The Group has assessed the impact of the change on its consolidated financial statements and it does not expect any material impact.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 130 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information ii IFRS 9 Financial Instruments effective for year ends beginning on or after 1 January 2018 IFRS 9 will supersede IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and covers classification and measurement offinancial assets and financial liabilities, impairment of financial assets and hedge accounting.
The Group has undertaken acomprehensive analysis of the impact of the new standard based on the financial instruments it holds and the way in which they areused.
As a result of the analysis, it is anticipated that there will be no material impact on the face of the statement of financial position or in the statement of income, however, there will be presentational changes in some of our note disclosures, as well as additional disclosures around classification and measurement of financial instruments which are summarised asfollows: Expected credit loss model The new standard introduces an expected loss impairment model for financial assets held at amortised cost, which means that anticipated as opposed to impending credit losses will be recognised resulting in the likely earlier recognition of impairment.
This change is not expected to have a material impact on the Groups results, given the low exposure to counterparty default risk as a result of the credit risk management processes that are in place.
Hedge accounting The new standard introduces a less prescriptive basis to adopt hedge accounting.
This change is not expected to materially impact the amounts recognised in relation to existing hedging arrangements.
Classification and measurement IFRS 9 modifies the classification and measurement of certain classes of financial assets and liabilities and will require the Group toreassess classification of financial assets from four to three primary categories amortised cost, fair value through profit and loss, fair value through other comprehensive income, reflecting the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
These modifications will result in presentational changes to the additional detail provided primarily in the advances and loans note 10, accounts receivable note 12 and accounts payable note 23 note disclosures to reflect the business model and cash flow characteristics of these assets and liabilities and group them into their respective IFRS 9 category or other IFRS classification.
A summary of the expected presentational changes on our 31December2017 balances is as follows: IFRS 9 Presentational changes Held at fair value Current Held at through profit Non-financial US$ million Notes presentation amortised cost and loss instruments Total Financial assets Other non-current receivables and loans 10 2,475 804 1,671 2,475 Trade receivables 12 11,915 4,623 7,292 11,915 Trade advances 12 2,110 19 2,091 2,110 Other receivables 12 2,259 621 1,638 2,259 Financial liabilities Trade payables 23 24,664 8,642 16,022 24,664 Trade advances from buyers 23 451 451 451 Other payables and accrued liabilities 23 2,216 2,015 201 2,216 Classification of other investments Upon implementation, IFRS 9 provides companies with the option to irrevocably designate investments in equity instruments as at fair value through other comprehensive income, provided certain criteria are met.
Such investments are presented as other investments in note 9.
The Group has evaluated the applicable criteria and intends to designate all its equity investments as fair value through other comprehensive income upon adoption of IFRS 9.
For the year ended 31 December 2017, the fair value movements recognised on the investments currently classified as fair value through profit or loss in the consolidated statement of income were $23 million, and as a result of the designation of these investments as fair value through other comprehensive income, the respective fair value movements will be recognised in other comprehensive income subsequent to 1 January 2018. iii IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective for year ends beginning on or after 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 applies to revenue from contracts with customers and replaces all of the revenue standards and interpretations in IFRS.
Thestandard outlines the principles an entity must apply to measure and recognise revenue and the related cash flows.
The Group has undertaken a comprehensive analysis of the impact of the new standard based on a review of the contractual terms of its principal revenue streams with the primary focus being to understand whether the timing and amount of revenue recognised could differ under IFRS 15.
As the majority of the Groups revenue is derived from arrangements in which the transfer of risks and rewards coincides with the fulfilment of performance obligations and transfer of control as defined by IFRS 15, no material changes in respect of timing and amount ofrevenue currently recognised by the Group are expected.
In addition, IFRS 15 requires that distinct promised goods or services, such as insurance and freight services to deliver the contracted goods to the customers, if material, bedeferred and recognised over time as the obligation is fulfilled.
The impact of this change is also not material, however the revenue earned from these activities is required to be separately disclosed and thus there will be presentational changes in our revenue related note disclosures.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 131 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued iv IFRS 16 Leases effective for year ends beginning on or after 1January2019 IFRS 16 provides a comprehensive model for identification of lease arrangements and their treatment on-balance sheet in thefinancial statements of both lessees and lessors.
Itsupersedes IAS 17 Leases and its associated interpretative guidance.
Under thenew standard, a lessee is required to recognise the present value of the unavoidable lease payments as a lease liability on the statement of financial position including those currently classified as operating leases with a corresponding right of use asset.
The unwind of the financial charge on the lease liability and amortisation of the leased asset are recognised in the statement ofincome based on the implied interest rate and contract term respectively.
Although the Group is still evaluating the potential impact of IFRS 16 on the financial statements and performance measures, including an assessment of whether any arrangements the Group enters into will be considered a lease under IFRS 16, the Groups recognised assets and liabilities will increase and affect the presentation and timing of related depreciation and interest charges in the consolidated statement of income.
Upon adoption of IFRS 16, the most significant impact will be the present value of the operating lease commitments see note 29 being shown as a liability on the statement of financial position together with an asset representing the right of use which are unwound and amortised to the statement of income over time.
Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention except for certain financial assets, liabilities, marketing inventories and pension obligations that are measured at revalued amounts or fair values at the end of each reporting period as explained in the accounting policies below.
Historical cost is defined as the amount of cash or cash equivalents paid or the fair value of the consideration given to acquire them at the time of their acquisition.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
The Directors have assessed that they have, at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12 months from the date ofapproval of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis ofaccounting in preparing these financial statements.
Further information on Glencores objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital and financial risks are detailed in note 25.
All amounts are expressed inmillions of United States Dollars, unless otherwise stated, consistent with the predominant functional currency of Glencores operations.
Principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company and its subsidiaries.
Control is achieved when Glencore is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee.
Specifically, Glencore controls an investee if, and only if, Glencore has all of the following: power over the investee i. e. existing rights that give it the current ability to direct the relevant activities of theinvestee exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and the ability to use its power over the investee to affect itsreturns When Glencore has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee or similar rights of an investee, it considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over the investee including: the size of Glencores holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders potential voting rights held by Glencore, other vote holders or other parties rights arising from other contractual arrangements, and any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that Glencore has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to bemade, including voting patterns at previous shareholders meetings The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one ormore of the three elements of control listed above.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when Glencore obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when Glencore loses control of the subsidiary.
Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income from the date Glencore gains control until the date when Glencore ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Company and tothe non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with theGroups accounting policies.
All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 132 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Changes in Glencores interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity transactions with any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid orreceived being recognised directly in equity and attributed to equity holders of Glencore.
When Glencore loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and is calculated as the difference between i the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and ii the previous carrying amount of the assets including goodwill, and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests.
All amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that subsidiary are accounted for as if Glencore had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities of the subsidiary i. e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred to another category of equity as specified permitted by applicable IFRSs.
The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under IAS 39, when applicable, orthe cost on the initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a jointventure.
Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates and joint ventures together Associates in which Glencore exercises significant influence or joint control are accounted for using the equity method.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies.
Significant influence is presumed if Glencore holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, unless evidence exists to the contrary.
A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint arrangement.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control over an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about relevant strategic and or key operating decisions require unanimous consent of the parties sharingcontrol.
Equity accounting involves Glencore recording its share of the Associates net income and equity.
Glencores interest in an Associate is initially recorded at cost and is subsequently adjusted for Glencores share of changes in net assets of the Associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments.
Where Glencore transacts with an Associate, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest in thatAssociate.
Changes in Glencores interests in Associates are accounted for asa gain or loss on disposal with any difference between the amount by which the carrying value of the Associate is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration received being recognised directly in the consolidated statement ofincome.
Joint operations A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement.
When Glencore undertakes its activities under joint operations, Glencore recognises in relation to its interest in ajoint operation: its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurredjointly its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation, and its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurredjointly The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance with the IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses.
Where Glencore transacts with a joint operation, unrealised profits and losses are eliminated to the extent of Glencores interest inthat joint operation.
Business combinations and goodwill Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition date fair values of the assets transferred, liabilities incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued in exchange for control of the acquiree.
The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities identifiable net assets are recognised at their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Acquisition related costs are recognised in the consolidated statement of income as incurred.
Where a business combination is achieved in stages, Glencores previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date Glencore attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 133 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose ofimpairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to the cash-generating units CGU that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss is recognised directly in profit or loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not able to be reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of the relevant CGU, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss ondisposal.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, Glencore reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted for additional information obtained during the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised at thatdate.
Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entitys net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests proportionate share of the recognised amounts of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a  basis.
Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS.
Similar procedures are applied in accounting for the purchases of interests in Associates and joint operations.
Any goodwill arising from such purchases is included within the carrying amount of the investment in Associates, but not amortised thereafter.
Any excess of Glencores share of the net fair value of the Associates identifiable net assets over the cost of the investment is included inthe consolidated statement of income in the period of thepurchase.
Non-current assets held for sale and disposal groups Non-current assets and assets and liabilities included in disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use, they are available for immediate disposal and the sale is highly probable.
Non-current assets held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised when Glencore has transferred to the buyer all significant risks and rewards of ownership of the assets sold.
Revenue excludes any applicable sales taxes and is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable to the extent that it is probable that economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the revenues and costs can be reliably measured.
In most instances sales revenue is recognised when the product is delivered to the destination specified by the customer, which is typically the vessel onwhich it is shipped, the destination port or the customerspremises.
For certain commodities, the sales price is determined on a provisional basis at the date of sale as the final selling price is subject tomovements in market prices up to the date of final pricing, normally ranging from 30 to 90 days after initial booking.
Revenue onprovisionally priced sales is recognised based on the estimated fair value of the total consideration receivable.
The revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales arrangements has the character of a commodity derivative.
Accordingly, the fair value of the final sales price adjustment is re-estimated continuously and changes in fair value are recognised as an adjustment to revenue.
In all cases, fair value is estimated by reference to forward market prices.
Royalty, interest and dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment has been established, it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to Glencore and the amount of income can be measured reliably.
Royalty revenue is recognised on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreement.
Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and the applicable effective interest rate.
Foreign currency translation Glencores reporting currency and the functional currency ofthe majority of its operations is the U. S. dollar as this is assessed to be the principal currency of the economic environment in which itoperates.
i Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the functional currency of each entity using the exchange rate prevailing at the transaction date.
Monetary assets and liabilities outstanding at year end are converted at year-end rates.
The resulting exchange differences are recorded in the consolidated statement of income.
ii Translation of financial statements For the purposes of consolidation, assets and liabilities of group companies whose functional currency is in a currency other than the U. S. dollar are translated into U. S. dollars using year-end exchange rates, while their statements of income are translated using average rates of exchange for the year.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 134 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and are translated at the closing rate.
Translation adjustments are included as a separate component of shareholders equity and have no consolidated statement of income impact to the extent that no disposal of the foreign operation has occurred.
Borrowing costs Borrowing costs are expensed as incurred except where they relate to the financing of construction or development of qualifying assets in which case they are capitalised up to the date when the qualifying asset is ready for its intended use.
Retirement benefits Glencore operates various pension schemes in accordance with local requirements and practices of the respective countries.
The annual costs for defined contribution plans that are funded by payments to separate trustee administered funds or insurance companies equal the contributions that are required under the plans and accounted for as an expense.
Glencore uses the Projected Unit Credit Actuarial method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The cost of providing pensions is charged to the consolidated statement of income so as to recognise current and past service costs, interest cost on defined benefit obligations, and the effect of any curtailments or settlements, net of expected returns on plan assets.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in other comprehensive income and will not be reclassified to the consolidated statement of income.
The retirement benefit obligation asset recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in Glencores defined benefit plans.
Any surplus resulting from this calculation is limited tothe present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to theplans.
Glencore also provides post-retirement healthcare benefits to certain employees in Canada, South Africa and the United States.
These are accounted for in a similar manner to the defined benefit pension plans, however are unfunded.
Share-based payments i Equity-settled share-based payments Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the awards based on the market value of the shares at the grant date.
Fair value excludes the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The fair value is charged to the consolidated statement of income and credited to retained earnings on a straight-line basis over the period the estimated awards are expected tovest.
At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimate ofthe number of equity instruments expected to vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions.
The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognised in the consolidated statement of income such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to retained earnings.
ii Cash-settled share-based payments For cash-settled share-based payments, a liability is initially recognised at fair value based on the estimated number of awards that are expected to vest, adjusting for market and non-market-based performance conditions.
Subsequently, ateach reporting period until the liability is settled, it is remeasured to fair value with any changes in fair value recognised in the consolidated statement ofincome.
Income taxes Income taxes consist of current and deferred income taxes.
Current taxes represent income taxes expected to be payable based on enacted or substantively enacted tax rates at the period end on expected current taxable income, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred taxes are recognised for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable income, using enacted orsubstantively enacted income tax rates which are expected to be effective atthe time of reversal of the underlying temporary difference.
Deferred tax assets and unused taxlosses are only recognised tothe extent that their recoverability is probable.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at reporting period end and amended to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related benefit will be realised.
To the extent that a deferred tax asset not previously recognised subsequently fulfils the criteria for recognition, an asset is then recognised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same authority and Glencore has both the right and the intention to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net or simultaneous basis.
The tax effect of certain temporary differences is not recognised principally with respect to the initial recognition of an asset or liability other than those arising in abusiness combination or in a manner that initially impacted accounting or taxable profit and temporary differences relating toinvestments in subsidiaries and Associates to the extent that Glencore can control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax is provided in respect offair value adjustments on acquisitions.
These adjustments may relate to assets such as extraction rights that, in general, are not eligible for income tax allowances.
Current and deferred tax are recognised as an expense or income in the consolidated statement of income, except when they relate to items that are recognised outside the consolidated statement of income whether in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or where they arise from the initial accounting for a business combination.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 135 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued Royalties, extraction taxes and other levies taxes are treated as taxation arrangements when they have the characteristics of an income tax including being imposed and determined in accordance with regulations established by the respective governments taxation authority and the amount payable is based on taxable income rather than physical quantities produced or as a percentage of revenues after adjustment for temporary differences.
For such arrangements, current and deferred tax is provided on the same basis as described above forother forms of taxation.
Obligations arising from royalty arrangements that do not satisfy these criteria are recognised ascurrent provisions and included in cost of goods sold.
Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
Inherent uncertainties exist in estimates of tax contingencies due to complexities of interpretation and changes in tax laws.
For those matters where it is probable that an adjustment will be made, the Group records its best estimate of these tax liabilities, including related interest charges.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, being the fair value of the consideration given to acquire or construct the asset, including directly attributable costs required to bring the asset tothe location or to a condition necessary for operation and thedirect cost of dismantling and removing the asset, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairmentlosses.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated to their estimated residual value over the estimated useful life of the specific asset concerned, or the estimated remaining life of the associated mine LOM, field or lease.
Depreciation commences when the asset is available for use.
Themajor categories of property, plant and equipment are depreciated amortised on a units of production UOP and or straight-line basis asfollows: Buildings 10 45 years Freehold land not depreciated Plant and equipment 3 30 years UOP Mineral and petroleum rights UOP Deferred mining costs UOP Assets under finance leases, where substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the Group as lessee, are capitalised and amortised over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
All other leases are classified as operating leases, the expenditures for which are recognised in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the leaseterm.
i Mineral and petroleum rights Mineral and petroleum reserves, resources and rights together Mineral and petroleum rights which can be reasonably valued, are recognised in the assessment of fair values on acquisition.
Mineral and petroleum rights for which values cannot be reasonably determined are not recognised.
Exploitable Mineral and petroleum rights are amortised using the UOP basis over the commercially recoverable reserves and, in certain circumstances, other mineral resources.
Mineral resources are included in amortisation calculations where there is a high degree of confidence that they will be extracted in an economicmanner.
ii Exploration and evaluation expenditure Exploration and evaluation expenditure relates to costs incurred in the exploration and evaluation of potential mineral and petroleum resources and includes costs such as exploration and production licences, researching and analysing historical exploration data, exploratory drilling, trenching, sampling and the costs of pre-feasibility studies.
Exploration and evaluation expenditure for each area of interest, other than that acquired from another entity, is charged to the consolidated statement of income as incurred except when the expenditure is expected to be recouped from future exploitation or sale of the area of interest and it is planned to continue with active and significant operations in relation to the area, or at the reporting period end, the activity has not reached a stage which permits a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially recoverable reserves, in which case the expenditure is capitalised.
As the intangible component i. e. licences represents an insignificant and indistinguishable portion of the overall expected tangible amount to be incurred and recouped from future exploitation, these costs along with other capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure are recorded as a component of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased exploration and evaluation assets are recognised at their fair value at acquisition.
As the capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure asset is not available for use, it is not depreciated.
All capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is monitored for indications of impairment.
Where a potential impairment isindicated, an assessment is performed for each area of interest or at the CGU level.
To the extent that capitalised expenditure is not expected to be recovered it is charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Administration costs that are not directly attributable to a specific exploration area are charged to the consolidated statement of income.
Licence costs paid in connection with a right to explore in an existing exploration area are capitalised and amortised over the term of the permit.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 136 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Development expenditure When commercially recoverable reserves are determined and such proposed development receives the appropriate approvals, capitalised exploration and evaluation expenditure is transferred to construction in progress, a component within the plant and equipment asset sub-category.
All subsequent development expenditure is similarly capitalised, provided commercial viability conditions continue to be satisfied.
Proceeds from the sale of product extracted during the development phase are netted against development expenditure.
Upon completion of development and commencement of production, capitalised development costs are further transferred, as required, to the appropriate plant and equipment asset category and depreciated using the unit of production method UOP or straight-line basis.
iii Deferred mining costs Mainly comprises certain capitalised costs related to underground mining as well as pre-production and in-production stripping activities as outlined below.
Deferred mining costs are amortised using the UOP basis over the life of the ore body to which those costs relate.
Deferred stripping costs Stripping costs incurred in the development of a mine or pit before production commences are capitalised as part of the cost of constructing the mine or pit and subsequently amortised over the life of the mine or pit on a UOP basis.
In-production stripping costs related to accessing an identifiable component of the ore body to realise benefits in the form of improved access to ore to be mined in the future stripping activity asset, are capitalised within deferred mining costs provided all the following conditions are met: a i t is probable that the future economic benefit associated with the stripping activity will be realised: b t he component of the ore body for which access has been improved can be identified: and c the costs relating to the stripping activity associated with the improved access can be reliably measured.
If all of the criteria are not met, the production stripping costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they areincurred.
The stripping activity asset is subsequently depreciated on a UOP basis over the life of the identified component of the ore body that became more accessible as a result of the stripping activity and is then stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
iv Biological assets Biological assets are carried at their fair value less estimated selling costs.
Any changes in fair value less estimated selling costs are included in the consolidated statement of income in the period in which they arise.
Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning Restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arising from the installation of plant and other site preparation work, discounted using a risk free rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the time such an obligation arises.
The costs are charged to the consolidated statement of income over the life of the operation through depreciation of the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site disturbance, which is created on an ongoing basis during production, are provided for at their net present values and charged to the consolidated statement of income as extraction progresses.
Changes in the estimated timing of the rehabilitation or changes to the estimated future costs are accounted for prospectively by recognising an adjustment to the rehabilitation liability and a corresponding adjustment to the asset to which it relates, provided areduction, if any, in the provision is not greater than the depreciated capitalised cost of the related asset, in which case the capitalised cost is reduced to Nil and the remaining adjustment recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
In the case of closed sites, changes to estimated costs are recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of income.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost.
The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is their fair value at the date of acquisition.
Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation calculated on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Internally generated intangibles are not capitalised.
Instead, the related expenditure is recognised in the consolidated statement of income and other comprehensive income in the period in which the expenditure is incurred.
Identifiable intangible assets with a finite life are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful life.
The amortisation method and period are reviewed annually and impairment testing is undertaken when circumstances indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Other than goodwill which is not depreciated, Glencore has no identifiable intangible assets with an indefinite life.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 137 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued The major categories of intangibles are amortised on a straight-line basis as follows: Port allocation rights 30 40 years Licences, trademarks and software 3 20 years Royalty arrangements 20 30 years Acquired offtake arrangements 5 10 years Goodwill impairment testing For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated to the CGUs, or groups of CGUs, that are expected tobenefit from the synergies of the business combination and which represent the level at which management monitors and manages the goodwill.
In assessing whether an impairment is required, the carrying value of the CGU is compared with its recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount is the higher of itsfair value less costs of disposal FVLC and its value in use VIU.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro-rata basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly in the consolidated statement of income.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods.
Other investments Equity investments, other than investments in Associates, are recorded at fair value unless such fair value is not reliably determinable in which case they are carried at cost.
Changes in fair value are recorded in the consolidated statement of income unless they are classified as available for sale, in which case fair value movements are recognised in other comprehensive income and are subsequently recognised in the consolidated statement of income when realised by sale or redemption, or when a reduction in fair value is judged to be a significant or prolonged decline.
Impairment or impairment reversals Glencore conducts, at least annually, an internal review of asset values which is used as a source of information to assess for any indications of impairment or impairment reversal.
Formal impairment tests are carried out, at least annually, for cash-generating units containing goodwill and for all other non-current assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.
A formal impairment or reversal test involves determining whether the carrying amounts are in excess or below, as the case may be of their recoverable amounts.
An assets recoverable amount is determined as the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use.
Such reviews are undertaken on an asset-by-asset basis, except where assets do not generate cash flows independent of other assets, in which case the review is undertaken at the CGU level.
If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recorded in the consolidated statement of income to reflect the asset at the lower amount.
For those assets which were impaired in prior periods, if their recoverable amount exceeds their carrying amount, an impairment reversal is recorded in the consolidated statement of income to reflect the asset at the higher amount to the extent the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying value of the asset that would have been determined had no impairment beenrecognised.
Goodwill impairments and impairments of available for sale equity investments cannot be subsequently reversed.
Provisions Provisions are recognised when Glencore has a present obligation legal or constructive, as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits that can be reliably estimated will be required to settle the liability.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation, including interpretation of specific laws and likelihood of settlement.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flow estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows when the effect of the time value of money is material.
Onerous contracts An onerous contract is considered to exist where Glencore has acontract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract.
Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions.
Unfavourable contracts An unfavourable contract is considered to exist when Glencore, in a business combination, acquires a contract under which the terms of the contract require Glencore to sell products or purchase services on terms which are economically unfavourable compared to current market terms at the time of the business combination.
Unfavourable contracts are recognised at the present value of the economic loss and amortised into the statement of income over the term ofthe contract.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 138 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Inventories The vast majority of inventories attributable to the marketing activities marketing inventories are valued at fair value less costs of disposal with the remainder valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Unrealised gains and losses from changes in fair value are reported in cost of goods sold.
Inventories held by the industrial activities production inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined using the first-in-first-out FIFO or the weighted average method and comprises material costs, labour costs and allocated production related overhead costs.
Financing and storage costs related to inventory are expensed as incurred.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held at bank, cash in hand and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
The carrying amount of these assets approximates their fair value.
Financial instruments Financial assets are classified as either financial assets at fair value through profit or loss FVTPL, loans and receivables, held-tomaturity investments or available for sale financial assets depending upon the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired.
Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value on the trade date, including, in the case of instruments not recorded at fair value through profit or loss, directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequently, financial assets are carried at fair value other investments, derivatives and marketable securities or amortised cost less impairment accounts receivable and advances and loans.
Financial liabilities other than derivatives are initially recognised at fair value of consideration received net of transaction costs as appropriate and subsequently carried at amortised cost.
i Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have beenaffected.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows.
The amount of the loss is recognised in the statement ofincome.
For financial assets that are carried at cost, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of return for a similar financial asset.
Such impairment loss will not be reversed in subsequent periods.
ii Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another party.
If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises acollateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the assets carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognised in profit or loss.
Own shares The cost of purchases of own shares is deducted from equity.
Where they are purchased, issued to employees or sold, no gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
Such gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Any proceeds received on disposal of the shares or transfers to employees are recognised in equity.
Derivatives and hedging activities Derivative instruments, which include physical contracts to sell or purchase commodities that do not meet the own use exemption, are initially recognised at fair value when Glencore becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are subsequently remeasured to fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Fair values are determined using quoted market prices, dealer price quotations or using models and other valuation techniques, the key inputs for which include current market and contractual prices for the underlying instrument, time to expiry, yield curves, volatility ofthe underlying instrument and counterpartyrisk.
Gains and losses on derivative instruments for which hedge accounting is not applied, other than the revenue adjustment mechanism embedded within provisionally priced sales, are recognised in cost of goods sold.
Those derivatives qualifying and designated as hedges are either i a Fair Value Hedge of the change in fair value of arecognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm commitment, or ii a Cash Flow Hedge of the change in cash flows to be received or paid relating to a recognised asset or liability or a highly probabletransaction.
A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Fair Value Hedge is reflected together with the change in the fair value of the hedged item in the consolidated statement ofincome.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 139 Notes to the financial statements continued 1.
Accounting policies continued A change in the fair value of derivatives designated as a Cash Flow Hedge is initially recognised as a cash flow hedge reserve in shareholders equity.
The deferred amount is then released to the consolidated statement of income in the same periods during which the hedged transaction affects the consolidated statement of income.
Hedge ineffectiveness is recorded in the consolidated statement of income when itoccurs.
When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time remains in shareholders equity and is recognised in the consolidated statement of income when the committed or forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in the consolidated statement of income.
However, if a forecast or committed transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was recognised in equity is immediately transferred to the consolidated statement of income.
A derivative may be embedded in a host contract.
Such combinations are known as hybrid instruments and at the date of issuance, the embedded derivative is separated from the host contract and accounted for as a standalone derivative if the criteria for separation are met.
The host contract is accounted for in accordance with its relevant accounting policy.
Segment information Glencore is organised and operates on a worldwide basis in three core business segments Metals and minerals, Energy products and Agricultural products, with each business segment responsible for the marketing, sourcing, hedging, logistics and industrial investment activities of their respective products and reflecting the structure used by Glencores management to assess the performance of Glencore.
The business segments contributions to the Group are primarily derived from the net margin or premium earned from physical Marketing activities net sale and purchase of physical commodities, provision of marketing and related value-add services and the margin earned from Industrial asset activities net resulting from the sale of physical commodities over the cost of production and or cost of sales and comprise the following underlying key commodities: Metals and minerals: Zinc, copper, lead, alumina, aluminium, ferroalloys, nickel, cobalt and iron ore, including smelting, refining, mining, processing and storage related operations of the relevant commodities Energy products: Crude oil, oil products, steam coal and metallurgical coal, including investments in coal mining and oil production operations, ports, vessels and storage facilities, and Agriculture products: Wheat, corn, canola, barley, rice, oil seeds, meals, edible oils, biofuels, cotton and sugar supported by investments in storage, handling, processing and portfacilities Corporate and other: consolidated statement of income amount represents unallocated Group related expenses including variable pool bonus charges.
Statement of financial position amounts represent Group related balances.
The financial performance of the segments is principally evaluated by management with reference to Adjusted EBIT EBITDA which is the net result of segmental revenue revenue including Proportionate adjustments as defined in the Alternative performance measure section less cost of goods sold and selling and administrative expenses plus share of income from associates and joint ventures, dividend income and the attributable share of Adjusted EBIT EBITDA of relevant material associates and joint ventures, which are accounted for internally by means of proportionate consolidation, excluding significant items.
The 2016 segment information includes the Agricultural products business which was disclosed as a discontinued operation until the close of its 50% sale on 1December 2016, see note 24.
Following completion of the sale, the results from Agricultural products have been combined under Marketing activities and the 2016 comparatives relating to Agricultural 2016 Industrial revenue of $3,292millionand EBITDA EBIT of $138millionand $ in respect thereof have been reclassified from Industrial to Marketing activities in the below tables, consistent with how the business performance is monitored by Glencores management.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in note 1 with the exception of relevant material associates and joint ventures.
Under IFRS 11, Glencores investments in the Antamina copper zinc mine 34% owned and the Cerrejn coal mine 33% owned are considered to be associates as they are not subject to joint control and the Collahuasi copper mine 44% owned and Glencore Agri 50% owned are considered to be joint ventures.
Associates and joint ventures are required to be accounted for in Glencores financial statements under the equity method.
For internal reporting and analysis, Glencore evaluates the performance of these investments under the proportionate consolidation method, reflecting Glencores proportionate share of the revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities of the investments.
Under IFRS 5, 100% of the results of the Agricultural business segment up to the date of completion of the sale were presented as a discontinued operation in the Groups statement of income, following the agreed sale of a 50% interest in Glencore Agri, see note 24.
Prior to completion of the sale, Glencore evaluated the performance of this segment under the full consolidation method, consistent with prior periods.
The balances as presented for internal reporting purposes are reconciled to Glencores statutory disclosures in the following tables and or in the Alternative performance measure section.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 140 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Glencore accounts for intra-segment sales and transfers where applicable as if the sales or transfers were to third parties, i. e. at arms length commercial terms.
Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2017 US$ million minerals products products and other Total 1 Revenue Marketing activities 51,017 118,199 12,611 181,827 Revenue Industrial activities 29,448 10,067 37 39,552 Revenue 80,465 128,266 12,611 37 221,379 2 Proportionate adjustment revenue 2,502 790 12,611 15,903 Revenue reported measure 77,963 127,476 37 205,476 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 2,029 1,054 316 175 3,224 Depreciation and amortisation 24 64 88 2 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 124 124 Adjusted EBIT 2,005 990 192 175 3,012 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 8,281 3,599 342 11,538 Depreciation and amortisation 3,274 1,998 38 5,310 2 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 511 177 688 Adjusted EBIT 4,496 1,424 380 5,540 Total Adjusted EBITDA 10,310 4,653 316 517 14,762 Total depreciation and amortisation 3,298 2,062 38 5,398 Total depreciation proportionate adjustment 511 177 124 812 Total Adjusted EBIT 6,501 2,414 192 555 8,552 2,3 Share of associates significant items 6 4 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 523 5 Mark-to-market valuation on certain coal hedging contracts 225 Gains on disposals and investments 1,309 Other expense net 594 Interest expense net 1,451 Income tax expense 1,759 2 Proportionate adjustment net finance and income tax expense 591 Income for the year 5,162 1 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $19,648million, Energy products segment $2,677millionand Agricultural products $Nil.
2 Refer to APMs section for definition.
3 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, primarily Century.
4 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions, i. e. before ultimate sale to a third party.
For Glencore, such adjustments arise on the sale of product, in the ordinary course of business, from its Industrial to Marketing operations.
Management assesses segment performance prior to any such adjustments, as if the sales were to third parties.
5 Represents the reversal of the 2016 open coal derivative position designated to hedge price exposure to 11milliontonnes of coal sales in 2017.
The financial effect ofsettling these contracts in 2017 is included in Energy products Industrial Adjusted EBITDA EBIT above.
Also see prior year footnote on next page.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 141 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 1 2016 US$ million minerals products products and other Total 2 Revenue Marketing activities 42,142 81,872 21,970 145,984 Revenue Industrial activities 24,196 7,149 22 31,367 Revenue 66,338 89,021 21,970 22 177,351 3 Proportionate adjustment revenue 1,826 607 1,085 3,518 Discontinued operations revenue 20,885 20,885 Revenue reported measure 64,512 88,414 22 152,948 Marketing activities Adjusted EBITDA 1,586 959 592 74 3,063 Depreciation and amortisation 24 50 74 3 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 10 10 Discontinued operations depreciation 60 60 Adjusted EBIT 1,562 909 522 74 2,919 Industrial activities Adjusted EBITDA 6,030 1,503 328 7,205 Depreciation and amortisation 3,331 2,167 1 5,499 3 Proportionate adjustment depreciation 517 178 695 Adjusted EBIT 2,182 842 329 1,011 Total Adjusted EBITDA 7,616 2,462 592 402 10,268 Total depreciation and amortisation 3,355 2,217 1 5,573 Total depreciation proportionate adjustment and discontinued operations 517 178 70 765 Total Adjusted EBIT 3,744 67 522 403 3,930 3,5 Share of associates significant items 132 6 Unrealised intergroup profit elimination adjustments 374 7 Mark-to-market valuation on certain coal hedging contracts 225 Gains on disposals and investments 489 Other expense net 1,626 Interest expense net 1,533 Income tax expense 638 3 Proportionate adjustment net finance and income tax expense 609 4 Discontinued operations net finance and income tax expense 1,654 Income for the year from continuing and discontinued operations 936 1 Includes Glencores proportionate share of the Agricultural products business 50% since the disposal of Glencore Agri on 1December2016, see note 24.
2 Balance is net of intra-segment sales arising from transactions between the Industrial and Marketing activities.
Metals and minerals segment: $16,602million, Energy products segment $2,263million and Agricultural products $2,253million.
3 Refer to APMs section for definition.
4 Comprise of gain on disposal of investments of $1,881 million, other expense of $26 million, net finance costs of $70millionand tax expense of $131 million, see note 24.
5 Share of associates significant items comprise Glencores share of significant charges booked directly by various associates, primarily impairment charges recognised within coal shipping investments.
6 Represents the required adjustment to eliminate unrealised profit or losses arising on intergroup transactions.
7 Represents an accounting measurement mismatch between the fair value of coal derivative positions in respect of portfolio risk management hedging activities initiated in Q2 2016 and the anticipated future revenue to be generated from the sale of future unsold coal production.
The derivative positions manage forward sales price exposure relating to some 11million tonnes of future attributable coal production, which is expected to be settled before 31December 2017.
The derivative positions include pre-existing trading contracts, for which mark-to-market movements, up until the time of them being ring-fenced for hedging activities, were included in trading results.
These transactions were not able to be designated as hedging instruments under IFRS, which would have allowed for the deferment of any income statement effect until performance of the underlying future sale transactions.
The fair value movements in the derivative portfolio will be offset against future revenue in the segment information as the related sales of production are realised.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 142 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2017 US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 32,642 15,464 936 47,170 Current liabilities 16,603 17,676 574 34,853 Allocatable current capital employed 16,039 2,212 1,510 12,317 Property, plant and equipment 37,030 19,607 409 57,046 Intangible assets 3,643 3,127 17 6,787 Investments in associates and other investments 8,767 4,868 3,321 16,956 Non-current advances and loans 1,128 1,773 75 2,976 Inventory 369 369 Allocatable non-current capital employed 50,937 29,375 3,321 501 84,134 1 Other assets 4,289 4,289 2 Other liabilities 51,285 51,285 Total net assets 66,976 27,163 3,321 48,005 49,455 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 17 79 118 214 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 3,232 742 46 4,020 Capital expenditure 3,249 821 118 46 4,234 3 Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 439 54 118 611 Capital expenditure reported measure 2,810 767 46 3,623 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets, cash and cash equivalents and assets held for sale.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions, non-current financial liabilities and liabilities held for sale.
Metals and Energy Agricultural Corporate 2016 US$ million minerals products products and other Total Current assets 23,904 17,456 466 40,894 Current liabilities 13,853 18,902 582 33,337 Allocatable current capital employed 10,051 1,446 1,048 7,557 Property, plant and equipment 32,635 20,795 396 53,826 Intangible assets 3,671 3,028 17 6,716 Investments in associates and other investments 7,963 3,721 3,155 14,839 Non-current advances and loans 1,737 1,737 9 3,483 Inventory 564 564 Allocatable non-current capital employed 46,570 29,281 3,155 422 79,428 1 Other assets 4,278 4,278 2 Other liabilities 47,482 47,482 Total net assets 56,621 27,835 3,155 43,830 43,781 Capital expenditure Marketing activities 14 27 140 1 182 Capital expenditure Industrial activities 2,695 571 49 3,315 Capital expenditure 2,709 598 140 50 3,497 3 Proportionate adjustment capital expenditure 359 33 15 407 Capital expenditure reported measure 2,350 565 125 50 3,090 1 Other assets include deferred tax assets and cash and cash equivalents.
2 Other liabilities include borrowings, non-current deferred income, deferred tax liabilities, non-current provisions and non-current financial liabilities.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 143 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Segment information continued Geographical information US$ million 2017 2016 1 Revenue from third parties The Americas 33,930 22,401 Europe 72,459 55,021 Asia 82,694 61,060 Africa 4,800 3,934 Oceania 11,593 10,532 205,476 152,948 2 Non-current assets The Americas 23,121 18,713 Europe 10,917 10,434 Asia 4,605 4,895 Africa 19,604 19,596 Oceania 19,953 20,554 78,200 74,192 1 Revenue by geographical destination is based on the country of incorporation of the sales counterparty, however this may not necessarily be the country ofthe counterparts ultimate parent and or final destination of product.
2 Non-current assets are non-current assets excluding other investments, advances and loans and deferred tax assets.
Non-current assets comprise assets in Australia of$18,353 million 2016: $19,215 million, in Peru of $10,721 million 2016: $6,093 million and the DRC of $8,166 million 2016: $8,349 million.
Gains on disposals and investments US$million 2017 2016 Gain on sale of HG Storage 674 Gain on sale of Zinc Africa 232 Gain on sale of GRail 430 Gain on sale of other operations 173 22 1 Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 230 37 Total 1,309 489 1 2017 primarily comprises the gain on sale of a royalty portfolio, see below.
HG Storage InDecember2017, Glencore disposed of a 51% interest in HG Storage, its petroleum products and logistics business, resulting in a gain of $674 million, including remeasurement of the retained investment to its fair value see note 24.
Zinc Africa In August 2017, Glencore disposed of its African zinc operations Perkoa and Rosh Pinah, resulting in a gain of $232million see note 24.
GRail InDecember2016, Glencore disposed of its New South Wales coal rail haulage business, resulting in a gain of $430million see note 24.
Other The gain on sale of other operations arose primarily from the disposal of Eland Platinum, which resulted in a gain of $147 million, mainly on account of recycling foreign currency translation reserves to income see note 24.
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment Royalty portfolio InDecember2017, Glencore disposed of a portfolio of selected base metals royalty assets for a combination of cash $150 million and a 50% interest in a new base metals streaming and royalties joint venture BaseCore Metals, resulting in a gain on disposal of$210million see note 9.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 144 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 4.
Other expense net US$ million Notes 2017 2016 Impairments net 5 628 1,268 Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading 290 121 Net foreign exchange losses 80 70 Legal settlement 75 92 Katanga restatement 78 1 Other expenses net 23 75 Total 594 1,626 1 Other expenses net for the year ended 31December 2016 comprised restructuring and closure costs of $47million and asettlement of a financial guarantee in relation to Optimum of $28million.
Together with foreign exchange movements and mark-to-market movements on investments held for trading, other expense includes other items of income and expense which due to their non-operational nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them are reported separately from operating segment results.
Other expenses net includes, but is not limited to, gain loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment and restructuring and closure costs.
Net changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading Primarily relates to movements on interests in investments classified as held for trading see note 9 and the ARM Coal nondiscretionary dividend obligation see note 27 carried at fair value.
Legal settlement Glencore Ltd GLtd, the U. S. branch of Glencore AG, is a defendant in a case relating to an alumina refinery located in St. Croix, U. S. Virgin Islands which was acquired by Virgin Islands Alumina Corporation Vialco, a former affiliate of GLtd in 1989, and was subsequently disposed of by Vialco in 2005.
GLtd guaranteed the obligations of Vialco under the 1989 agreement which included certain environmental and other indemnities.
The complaint alleges that GLtd is contractually obligated to indemnify the previous owners for two environmental lawsuits arising out of ownership and operation of the refinery.
GLtd intends to vigorously defend the contention, but has nevertheless reserved $75millionfor the possibility the plaintiff might prevail in the whole of its claims.
In September 2016, a subsidiary of the Group reached a settlement with U. S. agencies to pay a penalty of $27million and retire around $65million of credits in relation to compliance with a U. S. biofuels programme in the years 2011 12.
Katanga restatement During the year, Katanga Mining Limited Katanga, an 86.3% controlled subsidiary of the Group listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, identified certain accounting matters affecting its results reported in prior years, the impact of which was considered material for Katanga but not for the Group.
Consequently, for the years ended 31December2016 and earlier, Katanga has restated its financial statements, however the cumulative impact has only been corrected in the Group financial statements for the year ended 31December2017.
Had the Groups results been restated, income before taxes for the 2016 year would have been lower by $10million.
Impairments US$million Notes 2017 2016 1 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets net 7 8 378 1,268 Investments 9 101 Advances and loans non-current 149 2 Total impairments 628 1,268 1 Includes impairment reversals of $243million relating to Energy products as detailed below.
2 Impairments recognised during the year are allocated to Glencores operating segments as follows: Metals and minerals $318million 2016: $50million andEnergy products $310million 2016: $1,218million.
As part of a regular portfolio review, Glencore carries out an assessment of whether there is an indication of asset impairment orwhether a previously recorded impairment may no longer be required.
The recoverable amounts of the property, plant and equipment and intangible assets were measured based on fair value less costs of disposal FVLCD, determined by discounted cash flow techniques based on the most recent approved financial budgets and three-year business plans, which are underpinned and supported by life of mine plans of the respective operations.
The valuation models use the most recent reserve and resource estimates, relevant cost assumptions generally based on past experience and where possible, market forecasts of commodity price and foreign exchange rate assumptions discounted using operation specific discount rates ranging from 7% 12% 2016: 7% 11%.
The valuations remain sensitive to price and a deterioration improvement in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairments reversals.
The determination of FVLCD uses Level 3 valuation techniques for both years.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 145 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Impairments continued As a result of the regular impairment assessment, the following significant impairment charges resulted: 2017 Property, plant and equipment Following a modest downward revision, compared to prior year, of the long-term oil price assumption used to determine the remaining recoverable value of the E&P assets, offset by a combination of improved pricing differentials for the Chad crude oilblend Doba and further cost savings, an overall impairment charge of $278millionhas been recognised in the Chad oil operations Energy products segment.
The remaining recoverable value of the Chad oil operations is $1,221 million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration or improvement in the pricing outlook may result in additional or reversal of impairment.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $535millionof impairment or reversal would be recognised.
In January 2018, a farm-down agreement to divest a 50% interest in the Bolongo licence in Cameroon was signed.
As a result, theremaining recoverable value of the retained 37.5% working interest on the assumption that the Cameroon State National Oil Company will exercise its back-in right to the Oak development was impaired by $81 million, to its recoverable value of $142million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration or improvement in the pricing outlook may result in additional orreversal of impairment.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $13millionof impairment or reversal would be recognised.
The Alen field gas production in Equatorial Guinea is currently reinjected back into the field.
A project to commercialise gas production has now progressed sufficiently, resulting in a partial reversal of impairments of $243millionin the Equatorial Guinea oil operations Energy products segment and an increase in the recoverable value to $394 million.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions and the Henry Hub price assumption used in the valuation were $65 $70 per barrel and $3 permillionBtu respectively.
Should these decrease or increase by 10%, a further $75millionof impairment or reversal would be recognised.
As a result of certain life of mine optimisation and design updates, alongside the finalisation phase of Katangas whole ore leach project and its successful commissioning in late 2017, it was determined that certain processing equipment and non-current inventories were no longer required and therefore the full carrying value of these assets were impaired by $76 million.
The balance of property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material relates tospecific assets where utilisation is no longer required or projects progressed due to changes in production and development plans.
As a result, the full carrying value of these assets projects was impaired, with $186millionrecognised in our Metals and mineralssegment.
Investments Following strategic reviews of a copper and gold exploration investment and a coal investment it was determined, for the time being, to cease further development and, as a result, the full carrying value of each investment, $56millionand $45million respectively, was impaired.
Advances and loans non-current Glencore has reviewed the carrying value of its interest in subordinated debt and preference shares of a coal port following the insolvencies of certain third party shippers which impact the expected return on these investments and as a result, such loans were impaired by $149 million, to their estimated recoverable amount of $139 million.
2016 Property, plant and equipment Due to changes in estimated reserve life and revised mining plans, the estimated mine life of Tahmoor in Australia Energy products segment was reduced from 2020 to 2017.
As a result, the carrying value of this operation was impaired by $168million, to its estimated recoverable amount of $100million, which is expected to be depleted over the following year as the mine approaches itscompletion.
As a result of a write down of appraisal expenditure and certain operational challenges at the Equatorial Guinea oil operations Energy products segment, an impairment charge of $311million has been recognised resulting in a remaining recoverable value of $194million.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and further deterioration in the pricing outlook may result in additional impairment.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $50 $75 per barrel and should these fall by 10%, a further $46million of impairment would be recognised.
During 2016, Glencores long-term oil price assumptions were revised downwards, which together with delayed work programmes, resulted in a $622million impairment of the onshore Chad oil operations Energy products segment, to their estimated recoverable amount of $1,480million.
The shortto long-term Brent crude oil price assumptions used in the valuation were between $50 $75 per barrel and should these fall by 10%, a further $695million of impairment would be recognised.
The balance of property, plant and equipment related impairment charges none of which were individually material arose due to changes in production and development plans and resulted in impairments of $50million and $117million being recognised in our Metals and minerals and Energy products segments respectively.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 146 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 6.
Income taxes Income taxes consist of the following: US$ million 2017 2016 Current income tax expense 1,367 765 Adjustments in respect of prior year income tax 18 3 Deferred income tax expense credit 370 117 Adjustments in respect of prior year deferred income tax 4 7 Total tax expense reported in the statement of income 1,759 638 Current income tax expense credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income Deferred income tax expense credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income 37 24 Total tax expense credit recognised directly in other comprehensive income 37 24 The effective Group tax rate is different from the statutory Swiss income tax rate applicable to the Company for the followingreasons: US$ million 2017 2016 Income loss before income taxes and attribution from continuing operations 6,921 549 Income before income taxes and attribution from discontinued operations 2,254 Income before income taxes and attribution from continuing and discontinued operations 6,921 1,705 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures from continuing operations 1,158 11 Less: Share of income from associates and joint ventures from discontinued operations 15 Parent Companys and subsidiaries income before income tax and attribution from continuing and discontinued operations 5,763 1,679 Income tax expense calculated at the Swiss income tax rate of 15% 2016: 15% 864 252 Tax effects of: Different tax rates from the standard Swiss income tax rate 333 205 Tax exempt income $125million 2016: $160million from recurring items and $248million 2016: $283million from non-recurring items 373 443 Items not tax deductible $316million 2016: $365million from recurring items and $279million 2016:$269million from non-recurring items 595 634 Foreign exchange fluctuations 30 19 Changes in tax rates $5million 2016: $3million from recurring items and $188million 2016: $Nil from non-recurring items 193 3 Utilisation and changes in recognition of tax losses and temporary differences 290 41 Tax losses not recognised 412 483 Adjustments in respect of prior years 22 10 Other 27 1 Income tax expense 1,759 769 Income tax expense reported in the statement of income 1,759 638 Income tax expense attributable to discontinued operations 131 The non-tax deductible items of $826 million 2016: $634million primarily relate to non-deductible exploration charges, financing costs, impairments and various other expenses.
The impact of tax exempt income of $332million 2016: $443million primarily relates to non-taxable intra-group dividends, income that is not effectively connected to the taxable jurisdiction, and various otheritems.
The tax impact of foreign exchange fluctuations relates to the foreign currency movements on deferred tax balances where the underlying tax balances are denominated in a currency different to the functional currency determined for accounting purposes.
The impact of change in tax rates of $193million arises primarily from significant corporate tax rate changes in the U. S. following the announced U. S. tax reform.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 147 Notes to the financial statements continued 6.
Income taxes continued Deferred taxes as at 31December2017 and 2016 are attributable to the items in the table below: Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange US$ million 2017 of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2016 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,523 131 1 1,653 Other 210 50 14 2 18 47 107 Total 1,733 81 14 2 19 47 1,760 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 6,855 265 5 914 142 17 5,546 Mark-to-market valuations 65 20 5 4 76 Other 104 48 13 5 4 42 Total 7,024 293 23 914 151 21 5,664 Total Deferred tax net 5,291 374 37 912 132 68 3,904 Recognised Business Foreign Recognised in in other combination currency the statement comprehensive and disposal exchange of income income of subsidiaries movements Other 2015 US$ million 2016 1 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carried forward 1,653 70 97 1,680 Other 107 85 31 7 2 166 Total 1,760 15 31 104 2 1,846 1 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciation and amortisation 5,546 27 94 130 5,483 Mark-to-market valuations 76 154 9 1 238 Other 42 60 7 101 1 19 56 Total 5,664 67 7 204 132 19 5,777 Total Deferred tax net 3,904 52 24 100 130 19 3,931 1 Asset and liability positions in the same category reflect the impact of tax assets and liabilities arising in local tax jurisdictions that cannot be offset against tax assets and liabilities arising in other tax jurisdictions.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for tax losses carried forward only to the extent that realisation of the related tax benefit isprobable.
As at 31 December 2017, $2,404million 2016: $2,898million of deferred tax assets related to available loss carry forwards have been brought to account, of which $1,523million 2016: $1,653million are disclosed as deferred tax assets withthe remaining balance being offset against deferred tax liabilities arising in the same tax entity.
This balance is primarily comprised of: $470million 2016: $462million in entities domiciled in the DRC Katanga Mining Group, where these entities have been loss making for tax purposes in both 2017 and 2016 $478million 2016: $657million in entities domiciled in Switzerland, and $425million 2016: $430million in entities domiciled in the U. S. In evaluating whether it is probable that taxable profits will be earned in future accounting periods prior to any tax loss expiry as may be the case, all available evidence was considered, including approved budgets, forecasts and business plans and, in certain cases, analysis of historical operating results.
These forecasts are consistent with those prepared and used internally for business planning and impairment testing purposes.
Following this evaluation, it was determined there would be sufficient taxable income generated to realise the benefit of the deferred tax assets and that no reasonably possible change in any of the key assumptions would result in a material reduction in forecast headroom of tax profits so that the recognised deferred tax asset would not be realised, other than the potential developments in the DRC discussed below.
The losses carried forward in the DRC have an unlimited carry forward period, subject to an annual utilisation limitation.
Katanga Mining has recently resumed operations and is expected to generate sufficient taxable profits in the future.
Should these expectations fully materialise, up to $633 million of available unrecognised tax effected losses could be recognised.
However, in January 2018, the DRC parliament passed a revised mining code which raises taxes and ceases existing tax stability agreements.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 148 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information At 31 December 2017, these revisions were not substantively enacted and therefore do not impact the recognition of deferred taxes at year end.
However, if enacted as currently contemplated, the changes could significantly impact the currently recognised tax losses, along with any unrecognised tax losses.
The recognised losses carried forward in Switzerland primarily relate to non-recurring events in 2011 and 2012.
Based on the core business activities conducted in Switzerland and taxable income in 2017, sufficient taxable profits are expected to fully utilise the recognised tax losses prior to expiration.
The recognised losses carried forward in the U. S. primarily relate to non-recurring events in 2011 and have a carry forward period of 20 years.
The U. S. entities comprise our core U. S. marketing activities and based on taxable income in 2017 and forecasts going forward, sufficient taxable profits are expected to fully utilise the recognised tax losses prior to expiration.
Available gross tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the consolidated financial statements, are detailed below and will expire as follows: US$ million 2017 2016 1 year 110 34 2 years 955 320 3 years 66 2,408 Thereafter 2,140 13,507 Unlimited 3,303 2,149 Total 6,574 18,418 As at 31December2017, unremitted earnings of $60,014million 2016: $40,088million have been retained by subsidiaries forreinvestment.
No provision is made for income taxes.
Plant and equipment includes expenditure for construction in progress of $4,454million 2016: $4,599million and a net book value of $527million 2016: $592million of lease assets under finance lease agreements.
Mineral and petroleum rights include biological assets of $21million 2016: $21million.
Depreciation expenses included in cost of goods sold are $5,272million 2016:$5,457million, in selling and administrative expenses $19million 2016: $20million and in discontinued operations $Nil 2016:$60million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 149 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Property, plant and equipment continued During 2017, $42million 2016: $49million of interest was capitalised.
With the exception of project specific borrowings, the rate used to determine the amount of borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation was 3% 2016: 3%.
As at 31 December 2017, except for the purposes of finance leases, no property, plant or equipment was pledged as security for borrowings 2016: $Nil.
Intangible assets Licences, Port allocation trademarks Royalty US$million Notes Goodwill rights and software and other Total Cost: 1 January 2017 13,293 1,408 385 258 15,344 Business combination 24 76 76 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 2 2 4 Additions 6 17 23 Disposals 39 105 144 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 147 1 1 149 2 Reclassification to held for sale 1 1 Other movements 42 14 56 31 December 2017 13,293 1,555 468 183 15,499 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2017 8,243 100 163 122 8,628 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 1 1 1 Amortisation expense 36 53 18 107 Impairments 5 Disposals 19 51 70 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 13 1 14 Other movements 40 6 34 31 December 2017 8,243 149 237 83 8,712 Net carrying amount 31 December 2017 5,050 1,406 231 100 6,787 1 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Licences, Port allocation trademarks Royalty US$million Notes Goodwill rights and software and other Total Cost: 1 January 2016 14,122 1,252 394 318 16,086 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 829 15 8 98 950 Additions 13 3 16 Disposals 1 15 16 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 166 2 2 170 Other movements 6 1 33 38 31 December 2016 13,293 1,408 385 258 15,344 Accumulated amortisation and impairment: 1 January 2016 8,243 67 156 104 8,570 Disposal of subsidiaries 24 9 5 20 34 1 Amortisation expense 28 31 36 95 Impairments 5 5 5 Disposals 15 15 Effect of foreign currency exchange movements 14 1 15 Other movements 10 2 8 31 December 2016 8,243 100 163 122 8,628 Net carrying amount 31 December 2016 5,050 1,308 222 136 6,716 1 Recognised in cost of goods sold.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 151 Notes to the financial statements continued 8.
Intangible assets continued Goodwill The carrying amount of goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units CGUs, or groups of CGUs as follows: US$million 2017 2016 Metals and minerals marketing businesses 3,326 3,326 Coal marketing business 1,674 1,674 Metals warehousing business 50 50 Total 5,050 5,050 Metals and minerals and coal marketing businesses Goodwill of $3,326million and $1,674million was recognised in connection with previous business combinations and was allocated to the metals and minerals marketing and coal marketing CGUs respectively, based on the annual synergies expected to accrue to the respective marketing departments as a result of increased volumes, blending opportunities and freight and logistics arbitrage opportunities.
Metals warehousing business Goodwill of $50million 2016: $50million relates to the Access World former Pacorini logistics business CGU.
Port allocation rights Port allocation rights represent contractual entitlements to export certain amounts of coal on an annual basis from Richard Bay Coal Terminal in South Africa recognised as part of previous business combinations.
The rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated economic life of the port of 40 years.
Licences, trademarks and software Intangibles related to internally developed technology and patents were recognised in previous business combinations and are amortised over the estimated economic life of the technology which ranges between 10 15 years.
Royalty The fair value of a royalty income stream related to output from the Antamina copper mine was recognised as part of a previous business combination.
This amount was being amortised on a unit of production basis.
In December 2017, this royalty was disposed of, see note 3.
Goodwill impairment testing Given the nature of each CGUs activities, information on its fair value is usually difficult to obtain unless negotiations with potential purchasers or similar transactions are taking place.
Consequently, the recoverable amount for each of the marketing CGUs is determined by reference to the FVLCD which utilises a price to earnings multiple approach based on the 2017 approved financial budget which includes factors such as marketing volumes handled and operating, interest and income tax charges, generally based on past experience.
The price to earnings multiple of 15.0 times 2016: 13.5 times is derived from observable market data for broadly comparable businesses: and Glencore believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the recoverable amount to fall below the carrying value of the CGU.
The determination of FVLCD for each of the marketing CGUs used Level 3 valuation techniques inboth years.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 152 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 9.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments Investments in associates and joint ventures US$million Notes 2017 2016 1 January 13,086 11,337 Additions 8 15 Disposals 12 9 Share of income from associates and joint ventures 1,158 11 Share of income from associates and joint ventures from discontinued operations 24 15 Share of other comprehensive income from associates and joint ventures 93 Fair value of retained interest in HG Storage and other 2016: Glencore Agri 24 563 3,125 Disposal of equity accounted investments 24 170 624 Investment in Trevali 242 Investment in BaseCore Metals 4 150 Impairments 5 101 Dividends received 1,081 833 Other movements 62 49 31 December 13,998 13,086 Of which: Investments in associates 7,643 6,910 Investments in joint ventures 6,355 6,176 As at 31 December 2017, the fair value of listed associates and joint ventures, which have a carrying value of $808million 2016:$555million, using published price quotations a Level 1 fair value measurement was $1,340million 2016: $424million.
As at 31December 2017, the balance mainly comprises Century Aluminum and Trevali which have a carrying value of $478million 2016: $460million and $239million 2016: $Nil respectively.
As at 31 December 2017, $270million 2016: $Nil of the carrying value of Century Aluminum was secured under a loan facility, with proceeds received and recognised in current borrowings of $170million 2016: $Nil.
HG Storage In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a 51% interest in HG Storage, its petroleum products and logistics business, for $530million see note 24, subsequently accounting for its remaining share using the equity method.
Trevali In August 2017, Glencore disposed of its African zinc operations Perkoa and Rosh Pinah for a combination of cash and a 25% $222million interest in Trevali see note 24.
BaseCore Metals In December 2017, Glencore disposed of a portfolio of selected base metals royalty assets for a combination of cash and a 50% $150million interest in BaseCore Metals LP see note 3, subsequently accounting for its share using the equity method.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 153 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued Details of material associates and joint ventures Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures, is set out below.
Total material Total associates Total material and material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures 2017 Non-current assets 2,646 4,383 7,029 4,629 4,732 9,361 16,390 Current assets 880 1,174 2,054 1,363 5,839 7,202 9,256 Non-current liabilities 612 1,098 1,710 1,084 855 1,939 3,649 Current liabilities 522 747 1,269 636 5,687 6,323 7,592 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 148 56 204 166 146 312 516 1 Current financial liabilities 2 39 41 2 3,273 3,275 3,316 1 Non-current financial liabilities 120 120 77 564 641 761 Net assets 31 December 2017 2,392 3,712 6,104 4,272 4,029 8,301 14,405 Glencores ownership interest 33.3% 33.8% 44.0% 50.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 967 1,973 2,940 1,154 1,307 2,461 5,401 Carrying value 1,764 3,228 4,992 3,034 3,321 6,355 11,347 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31December2017, including group adjustments relating to alignment of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Total material Total associates Total material and material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures 2017 Revenue 2,371 3,550 5,921 2,960 25,222 28,182 34,103 Income for the year 388 1,300 1,688 841 198 1,039 2,727 Other comprehensive loss 11 3 14 14 Total comprehensive income 388 1,300 1,688 830 195 1,025 2,713 Glencores share of dividends paid 147 493 640 356 356 996 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 533 766 1,299 574 248 822 2,121 1 Interest income 23 23 2 59 61 84 2 Interest expense 3 7 10 25 195 220 230 Income tax expense 240 712 952 389 50 439 1,391 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $62million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $81million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 154 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Total material Total associates Total material and material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures 2016 Non-current assets 2,487 4,313 6,800 4,504 4,461 8,965 15,765 Current assets 670 952 1,622 1,164 6,354 7,518 9,140 Non-current liabilities 604 1,064 1,668 1,032 841 1,873 3,541 Current liabilities 291 470 761 442 6,286 6,728 7,489 The above assets and liabilities include the following: Cash and cash equivalents 108 90 198 127 147 274 472 1 Current financial liabilities 1 77 78 2 3,420 3,422 3,500 1 Non-current financial liabilities 135 135 77 603 680 815 Net assets 31 December 2016 2,262 3,731 5,993 4,194 3,688 7,882 13,875 Glencores ownership interest 33.3% 33.8% 44.0% 50.0% Acquisition fair value and other adjustments 1,028 2,021 3,049 1,176 1,311 2,487 5,536 Carrying value 1,781 3,282 5,063 3,021 3,155 6,176 11,239 1 Financial liabilities exclude trade, other payables and provisions.
Summarised profit and loss in respect of Glencores associates and joint ventures, reflecting 100% of the underlying associates and joint ventures relevant figures for the year ended 31December2016, including group adjustments relating to alignment of accounting policies or fair value adjustments, is set out below.
Total material Total associates Total material and material Glencore joint joint US$ million Cerrejn Antamina associates Collahuasi Agri ventures ventures 2016 Revenue 1,822 2,429 4,251 2,285 2,170 4,455 8,706 Loss income for the year 913 584 329 459 76 535 206 Other comprehensive loss income 11 10 1 1 Total comprehensive loss income 913 584 329 448 86 534 205 Glencores share of dividends paid 105 338 443 352 352 795 The above profit for the year includes the following: Depreciation and amortisation 534 774 1,308 581 20 601 1,909 1 Interest income 28 28 1 12 13 41 2 Interest expense 14 31 45 25 11 36 81 3 Impairment, net of tax 1,036 1,036 1,036 Income tax expense 49 420 469 168 32 200 669 1 Includes foreign exchange gains and other income of $37million.
2 Includes foreign exchange losses of $49million.
3 Glencores attributable share of impairments relating to Cerrejn amounts to $345million, net of taxes of $176million, resulting from reduced near term production estimates due to increased risks related to delays in securing approvals as a result of continued social and environmental challenges to current mine plans.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% decrease of the price assumptions would result in a further impairment of $293million.
Aggregate information of associates that are not individually material: US$ million 2017 2016 The Groups share of income loss 121 122 The Groups share of other comprehensive income 99 The Groups share of total comprehensive income loss 220 122 Aggregate carrying value of the Groups interests 2,651 1,847 The amount of corporate guarantees excluding Glencore Agri in favour of associates and joint ventures as at 31 December 2017 was $476million 2016: $470million.
Issued guarantees in favour of Glencore Agri amounted to $518million as at 31 December 2017 2016: $7,339million, mainly now only relating to a $400million Viterra bond maturing in 2020.
No amounts have been claimed orprovided as at 31 December 2017.
Glencores share of joint ventures capital commitments amounts to $151million 2016: $154million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 155 Notes to the financial statements continued 9.
Investments in associates, joint ventures and other investments continued Other investments US$ million 2017 2016 Available for sale United Company Rusal plc 933 562 OAO NK Russneft 1,042 895 Yancoal 293 2,268 1,457 Fair value through profit and loss OSJC Rosneft Oil cash-settled equity swaps 307 Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
124 Century Aluminum Company cash-settled equity swaps 179 78 Other 204 94 690 296 Total 2,958 1,753 Available for sale investments Glencore accounts for its interests in United Company Rusal plc, OAO NK Russneft Russneft and Yancoal Australia Limited Yancoal as available for sale investments at fair value with mark-to-market movements recognised in other comprehensive income.
Although Glencore holds a 25% interest in Russneft, it does not exercise significant influence over its financial and operating policy decisions.
Yancoal On 27 July 2017, Glencore and Yancoal signed agreements relating to the acquisition of a 49% interest in the Hunter Valley Operations HVO coal mine in New South Wales, Australia following Yancoals acquisition of Coal & Allied from Rio Tinto.
In addition to this transaction, Glencore agreed to subscribe for $311million worth of shares in Yancoals equity raising which completed in September 2017.
The HVO acquisition is subject to regulatory approvals, which are expected to be received during the course of H1 2018.
Fair value through profit and loss Rosneft On 3 January 2017, Glencore and Qatar Investment Authority QIA entered into various agreements establishing a 50:50 consortium QHG to acquire 19.5% of OSJC Rosneft Oil Rosneft and enter into a 5 year offtake agreement with Rosneft.
The joint investments established constitute joint arrangements subject to joint control by virtue of the partnership agreements, in accordance with IFRS 11, and are accounted for under the equity method and included within investments in joint ventures.
The structure requires unanimous consent for all key decisions regarding the relevant activities of the joint investments.
As the joint arrangements are structured through separate vehicles and Glencore is not the only possible source of funding, nor does it have a direct or indirect obligation for the liabilities of the arrangements, the arrangements have been accounted for as joint ventures.
Glencores initial investment was EUR 2.
In September 2017, QHG concluded an agreement with CEFC China Energy Company Limited to dispose of the majority of the shares it held amounting to a 14.16% stake in Rosneft.
Following completion of the transaction, the margin guarantees provided by Glencore see note 30 will terminate.
The transaction, subject to customary regulatory approval processes, is expected to complete in H1 2018.
In relation to these arrangements, Glencore advanced EUR300million in the form of a total return swap over 0.57% of Rosneft shares, accounted for at fair value through profit and loss, which constitutes the substantial majority of Glencores investment in QHG.
Volcan On 9 November 2017, Glencore completed the acquisition of additional shares in Volcan, thereby increasing its total economic interest from 7.7% to 23.3% see note 24.
Prior to acquisition, Glencores interest in Volcan was accounted for at fair value through profit and loss and a gain of $235million was recognised in changes in mark-to-market valuations on investments held for trading see note 4.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 156 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 10.
Advances and loans US$ million Notes 2017 2016 Loans to associates 220 526 Rehabilitation trust fund 213 193 Pension surpluses 22 68 1 Other non-current receivables and loans 2,475 2,764 Total 2,976 3,483 1 Includes advances, net of $1,654million 2016: $2,039million provided by various banks.
Loans to associates Loans to associates generally bear interest at applicable floating market rates plus a premium.
In December 2017, loans extended to associates were impaired by $149million, see note 5.
Rehabilitation trust fund Glencore makes contributions to controlled funds that were established to meet the costs of its restoration and rehabilitation liabilities, primarily in South Africa.
These funds are not available for the general purposes of the Group, and there is no present obligation to make any further contributions.
Other non-current receivables and loans Other non-current receivables and loans comprise the following: US$ million 2017 2016 Counterparty 1 Secured marketing related financing arrangements 992 1,043 Socit Nationale dElectricit SNEL power advances 307 295 Chad State National Oil Company 339 389 Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo 123 292 Iron ore prepayment 38 89 Other 676 656 Total 2,475 2,764 1 Various marketing related financing facilities, generally secured against certain assets and or payable from the future sale of production of the counterparty.
The advances and loans are interest-bearing and on average are to be repaid over a three-year period.
SNEL power advances In early 2012, a joint agreement with Socit Nationale dlectricit SNEL, the Democratic Republic of the Congos DRC national electricity utility, was signed whereby Glencores operations will contribute $389million to a major electricity infrastructure refurbishment programme, including transmission and distribution systems.
This is expected to facilitate a progressive increase in power availability to 450 megawatts by the end of 2018.
Funding commenced in the second quarter of 2012 and will continue until Q1 2020.
The loans are being repaid via discounts on electricity purchases, which will accelerate upon completion of the refurbishment programme.
Chad State National Oil Company Glencore has provided a net $398million 2016: $418million to the Chad State National Oil Company SHT to be repaid through future oil deliveries over seven years.
As at 31 December 2017, the advance is net of $872million 2016: $972million provided by a syndicate of banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the receipt of oil due from SHT under the prepayment.
Of the net amount advanced, $339million 2016: $389million is receivable after 12 months and is presented within Other non-current receivables and loans and $59million 2016: $29million is due within 12 months and included within Accountsreceivable.
Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC Glencore has provided a net $212million 2016: $336million to SNPC repayable through future oil deliveries over five years.
As at 31December 2017, the advance is net of $549million 2016: $512million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of oil contractually due from SNPC.
Of the net amount advanced, $123million 2016: $292million is due after 12 months and is presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $89million 2016: $44million is due within 12 months and included within Accounts receivable.
Iron ore prepayment Glencore has advanced funds to iron ore suppliers to be repaid through future iron ore deliveries over two years.
As at 31December 2017, the total advance of $1,172million 2016: $1,571million is recorded net of $1,092million 2016: $1,414million provided by the bank market, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future receipt of iron ore contractually due from the counterparty.
Of the net amount advanced, $38million 2016: $89million is due after 12 months and presented within Other long-term receivables and loans and $42million 2016: $68million is due within 12 months and included within Accountsreceivable.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 157 Notes to the financial statements continued 11.
Inventories Current inventory Inventories of $24,084million 2016: $18,347million comprise $15,344million 2016: $11,323million of inventories carried at fair value less costs of disposal and $8,740million 2016: $7,024million valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
The amount of inventories and related ancillary costs recognised as an expense during the year was $185,371million 2016: $137,903million.
Fair value of inventories is a Level 2 fair value measurement see note 27 using observable market prices obtained from exchanges, traded reference indices or market survey services adjusted for relevant location and quality differentials.
There are no significant unobservable inputs in the fair value measurement of such inventories.
Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its inventories.
In each case, the inventory has not been derecognised as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
The proceeds received are recognised as current borrowings see note 19.
As at 31 December 2017, the total amount of inventory secured under such facilities was $435million 2016: $1,632million.
The proceeds received and recognised as current borrowings were $221million 2016: $1,320million and $80million 2016: $61million as non-current borrowings.
Non-current inventory $369million 2016: $564million of inventories valued at lower of cost or net realisable value are not expected to be utilised or sold within 12 months and are therefore classified as non-current inventory.
Accounts receivable US$ million 2017 2016 1 Trade receivables 11,915 10,482 1,2 Trade advances 2,110 2,116 3 Margin calls paid 3,380 4,937 1 Associated companies 517 444 Income tax receivable 178 201 1 Other receivables 2,259 1,886 Total 20,359 20,066 1 Collectively referred to as receivables presented net of allowance for doubtful debts.
2 Includes advances, net of $876million 2016: $1,004million provided by banks, the repayment terms of which are contingent upon and connected to the future delivery of contractual production over the next 12 months.
3 Includes $717million 2016: $2,181million of cash collateral payments under margin arrangements related to cross currency swaps held to hedge non-U.
The average credit period on sales of goods is 20 days 2016: 25 days.
The carrying value of trade receivables approximates fair value.
As at 31 December 2017, 7% 2016: 7% of receivables were between 1 to 60 days overdue, and 4% 2016: 4% were greater than 60days overdue.
Such receivables, although contractually past their due dates, are not considered impaired as there has not been a significant change in credit quality of the relevant counterparty, and the amounts are still considered recoverable taking into account customary payment patterns and in many cases, offsetting accounts payable balances.
The movement in allowance for doubtful accounts is detailed below: US$ million 2017 2016 1 January 295 269 Released during the year 143 58 Charged during the year 153 232 Utilised during the year 21 46 Disposal of subsidiaries 102 31 December 284 295 Glencore has a number of dedicated financing facilities, which finance a portion of its receivables.
The receivables have not been derecognised, as the Group retains the principal risks and rewards of ownership.
As at 31 December 2017, the total amount of trade receivables secured was $748million 2016: $1,917million and proceeds received and classified as current borrowings amounted to $669million 2016: $1,670million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 158 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 13.
Cash and cash equivalents US$ million 2017 2016 Bank and cash on hand 1,751 2,060 Deposits and treasury bills 373 458 Total 2,124 2,518 As at 31December2017, $35million 2016: $22million was restricted.
Assets and liabilities held for sale On 29 December 2017, Glencore completed the sale of a 51% interest in HG Storage International Ltd HG Storage, a group comprising the majority of Glencores petroleum products storage and logistics businesses to HNA Innovation Finance Group Co Ltd HNA see note 24.
Glencore and HNA also entered into a second agreement pursuant to which three of the original transaction assets located in the USA HG Storage U. S. will be sold to HG Storage in 2018 for proceeds of $196million, subject to receipt ofcustomary regulatory approvals.
In 2017, Glencore entered into an agreement to sell Tahmoor, a coal mining operation in New South Wales, as well as its manganese plants located in France and Norway, with both transactions grouped under other in the table below.
The transactions, subject tocustomary regulatory approvals and closing conditions, are expected to complete during the first half of 2018.
At the date of this report, the sale of the manganese plants had closed.
As a result, assets of $432million and liabilities of $159million have been classified as held for sale within the Metals and minerals and Energy segments as detailed below: US$million HG Storage U. S. Other 2017 Non-current assets 1 Property, plant and equipment 141 96 237 Intangible assets 1 1 Investments in associates 8 8 Deferred tax assets 33 33 150 129 279 Current assets Inventories 4 49 53 Accounts receivable 39 27 66 Other financial assets 7 7 Prepaid expenses 3 3 Cash and cash equivalents 12 12 24 58 95 153 Total assets held for sale 208 224 432 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 41 5 46 Provisions 38 38 41 43 84 Current liabilities Accounts payable 8 62 70 Income tax payable 1 4 5 9 66 75 Total liabilities held for sale 50 109 159 Total net assets held for sale 158 115 273 1 Includes additions of $16million since reclassification to held for sale.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 159 Notes to the financial statements continued 15.
Share capital and reserves Number of shares Share capital Share premium thousand US$million US$million Authorised: 31 December 2017 and 2016 Ordinary shares with a par value of $0.01 each 50,000,000 Issued and fully paid up: 1 January 2016 and 31 December 2016 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 52,338 1 January 2017 14,586,200 146 52,338 Distributions paid see note 17 998 31 December 2017 Ordinary shares 14,586,200 146 51,340 Treasury Shares Trust Shares Total Number Share Number Share Number Share of shares premium of shares premium of shares premium thousand US$million thousand US$million thousand US$million Own shares: 1 January 2016 191,459 948 174,404 764 365,863 1,712 Own shares disposed during the year 7,474 12 7,474 12 31 December 2016 191,459 948 166,930 752 358,389 1,700 1 January 2017 191,459 948 166,930 752 358,389 1,700 Own shares disposed during the year 37,080 125 37,080 125 31 December 2017 191,459 948 129,850 627 321,309 1,575 Own shares Own shares comprise shares acquired under the Companys previous share buy-back programme and shares of Glencore plc held by Group employee benefit trusts the Trusts to satisfy the potential future settlement of the Groups employee stock plans, primarily assumed as part of previous business combinations.
The Trusts also coordinate the funding and manage the delivery of ordinary shares and free share awards under certain of Glencores share plans.
The shares have been acquired by either stock market purchases or share issues from the Company.
The Trusts are permitted to sell the shares and may hold up to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company at any one time.
The Trusts have waived the right to receive distributions from the shares that they hold.
Costs relating to the administration of the Trust are expensed in the period in which they are incurred.
As at 31December2017, 321,309,725 shares 2016: 358,389,443 shares, equivalent to 2.2% 2016: 2.5% of the issued share capital were held at a cost of $1,575million 2016: $1,700million and market value of $1,694million 2016: $1,227million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 160 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Other reserves Net Net ownership Translation Cash flow unrealised changes in US$ million adjustment hedge reserve gain loss subsidiaries Total 1 January 2017 2,553 126 377 752 2,802 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 503 503 Loss on cash flow hedges, net of tax 165 165 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 500 500 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 318 318 Items recycled to the statement of income upon disposal of subsidiaries see note 24 271 128 143 31 December 2017 2,321 39 877 942 2,425 1 January 2016 3,579 21 12 831 4,419 Exchange gain on translation of foreign operations 440 440 Gain on cash flow hedges, net of tax 99 99 Gain on available for sale financial instruments 365 365 Reclassifications 31 30 1 Change in ownership interest in subsidiaries 68 68 Discontinued operations 22 21 43 Items recycled to the statement of income upon disposal of subsidiaries see note 24 595 3 10 602 31 December 2016 2,553 126 377 752 2,802 16.
Earnings per share US$ million 2017 2016 Profit loss attributable to equity holders of the Parent Continuing operations 5,777 744 Discontinued operations 2,123 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent for basic earnings per share 5,777 1,379 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share thousand 14,256,020 14,224,100 Effect of dilution: Equity-settled share-based payments thousand 167,024 134,179 Weighted average number of shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share thousand 14,423,044 14,358,279 Basic earnings loss per share US$ Continuing operations 0.41 0.05 Discontinued operations 0.15 Total basic earnings per share 0.41 0.10 Diluted earnings loss per share US$ Continuing operations 0.40 0.05 Discontinued operations 0.15 Total diluted earnings per share 0.40 0.10 Glencore Annual Report 2017 161 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Earnings per share continued Headline earnings: Headline earnings is a Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE defined performance measure.
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share, based on headline earnings as determined by the requirements of the Circular 2 2015 as issued by the SouthAfrican Institute of Chartered Accountants SAICA, is reconciled using the following data: US$ million 2017 2016 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Parent from continuing and discontinued operations for basic earnings per share 5,777 1,379 2 Net gain on disposals 1,309 2,370 Net gain on disposal non-controlling interest 7 Net gain on disposals tax 107 148 3 Impairments 479 1,789 Impairments non-controlling interest 42 16 Impairments tax 104 573 Headline and diluted earnings for the year 4,915 357 Headline earnings per share US$ 0.34 0.03 1 Diluted headline earnings per share US$ 0.34 0.03 1 In 2016 equity-settled share-based payments were only dilutive with respect to Headline earnings per share calculation.
2 2017 comprises gain on disposals of investments of $1,079 million and gain on disposals of property, plant and equipment of $230 million.
2016 comprises gain on disposals of investments of $452million, gain on disposals of property, plant and equipment of $37 million, gain on disposal of Glencore Agri of $1,848million and gain on disposals and investments as reported in discontinued operations of $33million see notes 3 and 24.
3 Comprises impairments of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investments see note 5 and impairments related to Cerrejn of $521million in 2016.
Distributions US$ million 2017 2016 Paid during the year: First tranche 2016 distribution $0.035 per ordinary share 499 Second tranche 2016 distribution $0.035 per ordinary share 499 Total 998 The proposed distribution of $0.20 per ordinary share amounting to $2.9 billion is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Distributions declared in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 are expected to be paid equally $0.10 each in May 2018 and September 2018.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 162 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 18.
Share-based payments Number Number of awards Expense Expense of awards Number of Fair value at outstanding outstanding recognised recognised 2016 2017 2016 awards granted grant date 2017 US$million thousand US$million thousand thousand US$million US$million Deferred Bonus Plan 2015 Series 14,315 36 3,909 14,315 7 2016 Series 14,851 35 14,023 14,177 34 2017 Series 16,506 64 16,506 64 45,672 34,438 28,492 71 34 Performance Share Plan 2013 Series 6 2014 Series 20,908 115 5,302 10,485 9 21 2015 Series 77,816 107 54,250 75,316 30 48 2016 Series 24,017 84 23,439 6,835 47 2017 Series 6,280 30 6,280 129,021 89,271 92,636 86 75 Total 174,693 123,710 121,128 157 109 Deferred Bonus Plan Under the Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, the payment of a portion of a participants annual bonus is deferred for a period of one to two years as an award of either ordinary shares a Bonus Share Award or cash a Bonus Cash Award.
The awards are vested at grant date with no further service conditions, however they are subject to forfeiture for malus events.
The Bonus Share Awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at settlement, including distributions paid between award and settling.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards in shares.
The associated expense is recorded in the statement of income loss as part of the expense for performance bonuses.
Performance Share Plan Under the Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP, participants are awarded PSP awards which vest in annual tranches over aspecified period, subject to continued employment and forfeiture for malus events.
At grant date, each PSP award is equivalent toone ordinary share of Glencore.
The awards vest in three or five equal tranches on 30 June, 31December or 31 January of the years following the year of grant, as may be the case.
The fair value of the awards is determined by reference to the market price of Glencores ordinary shares at grant date.
The PSP awards may be satisfied, at Glencores option, in shares by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market or in cash, with a value equal to the market value of the award at vesting, including distributions paid between award and vesting.
Share-based awards assumed in previous business combinations Weighted Total options average outstanding exercise thousands price GBP 1 January 2017 141,272 3.89 Lapsed 8,756 4.45 Exercised 7,913 1.60 31December 2017 124,603 1 January 2016 146,602 3.89 Adjustment due to share issue 322 Lapsed 5,424 2.85 Exercised 228 1.10 31December 2016 141,272 1 The weighted average share price at date of exercise of the share based awards was GBP3.45 2016: GBP2.80.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 163 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Share-based payments continued As at 31December 2017, a total of 124,602,481 options 2016: 141,271,783 options were outstanding and exercisable, having a range of exercise prices from GBP1.1 to GBP6.87 2016: GBP1.1 to GBP6.87 and a weighted average exercise price of GBP4.00 2016: GBP3.89.
These outstanding awards have expiry dates ranging from March 2018 to February 2022 2016: March 2017 to February 2022 and a weighted average contractual life of 2.97 years 2016: 3.6 years.
The awards may be satisfied at Glencores option, by the issue of new ordinary shares, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury or by the transfer of ordinary shares purchased in the market.
Glencore currently intends to settle these awards, when exercised, by the transfer of ordinary shares held in treasury.
Borrowings US$ million Notes 2017 2016 Non-current borrowings Capital market notes 22,628 21,968 Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities 994 476 Finance lease obligations 29 328 326 Other bank loans 582 418 Total non-current borrowings 24,532 23,188 Current borrowings Secured inventory receivables other facilities 9 11 12 1,060 2,990 U. S. commercial paper 1,230 Capital market notes 3,550 4,388 Finance lease obligations 29 64 75 1 Other bank loans 3,498 2,577 Total current borrowings 9,402 10,030 Total borrowings 33,934 33,218 1 Comprises various uncommitted bilateral bank credit facilities and other financings.
Reconciliation of cash flow to movement in borrowings US$ million 2017 2016 1 Cash related movements in borrowings Proceeds from issuance of capital market notes 2,026 1,366 Repayment of capital market notes 4,539 4,748 Repurchase of capital market notes 2,629 Proceeds from repayment of revolving credit facilities 501 2,644 Proceeds from repayment of other non-current borrowings 19 79 Repayment of finance lease obligations 105 125 Proceeds from U. S. commercial papers 1,180 15 Repayment of proceeds from current borrowings 1,266 1,035 2,184 7,839 Non-cash related movements in borrowings 2 Borrowings acquired disposed in business combinations 761 2,709 Foreign exchange movements 1,840 296 Hedge fair value movements 192 76 Change in finance lease obligations 73 67 Other non-cash movements 34 22 2,900 2,992 Increase decrease in borrowings for the year 716 10,831 Total borrowings opening 33,218 44,049 Total borrowings closing 33,934 33,218 1 See consolidated statement of cash flows.
2 2016 includes a settlement of debt due from Glencore Agri of $1,670 million, see note 24.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 165 Notes to the financial statements continued 19.
Borrowings continued Capital Market Notes US$ million Maturity 2017 2016 Euro 1,250million 5.25% coupon bonds Mar 2017 1,244 Euro 500million 5.25% coupon bonds Jun 2017 514 Euro 1,250 million 4.625% coupon bonds Apr 2018 1,480 Euro 1,000 million 2.625% coupon bonds Nov 2018 1,202 Eurobonds 2,682 1,758 CHF 450 million 2.625% coupon bonds Dec 2018 461 US$ 700million 3.60% coupon bonds Jan 2017 660 US$ 250million 5.50% coupon bonds Jun 2017 254 US$ 1,750million 2.70% coupon bonds Oct 2017 1,716 US$ 250million LIBOR plus 1.06% coupon bonds Apr 2018 48 US$ 500million 2.125% coupon bonds Apr 2018 159 US$ 200million LIBOR plus 1.20% coupon bonds May 2018 200 US$ bonds 407 2,630 Total current bonds 3,550 4,388 2017 Bond activities In March, issued a 10 year $1,000 million, 4% coupon bond In August, issued a 10 year $50 million, 4% coupon bond as a private placement In October, issued a 5 year $500 million, 3% coupon bond In October, issued a 10 year $500 million, 3.875% coupon bond 2016 Bond activities In May, issued a 5 year CHF 250million, 2.25% coupon bond In September, issued a 7 year Euro 1,000million, 1.875% coupon bond In October, repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $1,492million, comprising primarily 2018 and 2019 maturities InDecember, repurchased bonds with a nominal value of $1,137million, comprising primarily 2019 and 2020 maturities Committed syndicated revolving credit facilities In May 2017, Glencore signed new one-year revolving credit facilities for a total amount of $7,335 million, refinancing the $7,700million one-year revolving facilities signed in February 2016.
Funds drawn under the facilities bear interest at US$LIBOR plus a margin of 40 basis points.
Glencore also voluntarily reduced the medium term facility size from $6,800 million to $5,425 million and extended its maturity by 24 months to 2022.
As at 31December2017, the active facilities comprise: a $7,335 million one year revolving credit facility with a 12 month borrowers term-out option to May 2019 and 12 month extension option: and a $5,425 million medium-term revolving credit facility to May 2022 Secured facilities US$ million Maturity Borrowing base Interest 2017 2016 Syndicated committed metals inventory facilities Nov 2018 83 3% 100 US$ JIBAR 110 bps Syndicated uncommitted metals US$ LIBOR 1 inventory receivables facilities Feb Mar Jul 2018 1,480 75 90 160 bps 590 2,340 Syndicated uncommitted oil US$ LIBOR  Oct 2018 750 75 bps 300 550 US$ LIBOR Other secured facilities Mar 2018 170 75 bps 170 Total 2,483 1,060 2,990 1 Since year-end, in the ordinary course of business, these maturities have been rolled extended as required.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 166 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 20.
Deferred income Unfavourable US$ million contracts Prepayments Total 1 January 2017 617 1,787 2,404 Additions 675 675 Accretion in the year 164 164 Utilised in the year 64 240 304 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 32 32 31December 2017 585 2,386 2,971 Current 59 351 410 Non-current 526 2,035 2,561 1 January 2016 653 886 1,539 Additions 971 971 Accretion in the year 109 109 Utilised in the year 74 179 253 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 38 38 31December 2016 617 1,787 2,404 Current 56 82 138 Non-current 561 1,705 2,266 Unfavourable contracts In previous business combinations, Glencore recognised liabilities related to various assumed contractual agreements to deliver tonnes of coal and zinc concentrates over periods ending between 2018 and 2034 at fixed prices lower than the prevailing market prices on the respective acquisition dates.
These amounts are released to revenue as the underlying commodities are delivered to the buyers over the life of the contracts atrates consistent with the implied forward price curves at the time of the acquisitions.
Prepayments In November 2017, Glencore entered into a silver supply arrangement in exchange for an upfront advance payment of $675million.
Under the terms of the arrangement, Glencore is required to deliver an average of 19 million ounces of silver per annum, over a 3 year period.
The arrangement has been accounted for as an executory contract whereby the advance payment has been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payment is being recognised as the silver is delivered consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction.
An accretion expense, representing the time value of the upfront deposit on the deferred revenue balance, is also being recognised.
In 2015 and 2016, Glencore entered into various long-term streaming agreements for the future delivery of gold and or silver produced over the life of mine from our Antamina, Antapaccay and Ernest Henry operations in exchange for an upfront prepayment and, for Antamina and Antapaccay, an ongoing amount equal to 20% of the spot silver and gold price.
Once certain delivery thresholds have been met at Antapaccay, the ongoing cash payment increases to 30% of the spot gold and silver prices.
The arrangements have been accounted for as executory contracts whereby the advance payments have been recorded as deferred revenue.
The revenue from the advance payments is being recognised as the gold and or silver is delivered at an amount consistent with the implied forward price curve at the time of the transaction along with ongoing cash payments, if any.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 167 Notes to the financial statements continued 21.
Provisions Post-retirement Other employee employee Rehabilitation Onerous US$ million benefits entitlements costs contracts Other Total 1 January 2017 860 218 3,194 1,305 812 6,389 Provision utilised in the year 96 40 191 325 106 758 Accretion in the year 260 1 261 1 Assumed in business combination 162 38 200 1 Disposals ofsubsidiaries 2 45 10 57 2 Reclassification to held for sale 1 37 38 Additional provision in the year 35 118 786 111 424 1,474 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 48 1 51 100 31December 2017 847 294 4,180 1,092 1,158 7,571 Current 56 90 176 155 477 Non-current 847 238 4,090 916 1,003 7,094 1 January 2016 803 221 2,905 1,478 990 6,397 Provision utilised in the year 92 34 140 381 555 1,202 Accretion in the year 181 2 183 1 Assumed in business combination 5 154 84 4 247 1 Disposals ofsubsidiaries 6 6 107 78 197 Additional provision in the year 160 32 164 122 448 926 Effect of foreign currency exchange difference 5 37 3 35 31December 2016 860 218 3,194 1,305 812 6,389 Current 144 178 136 458 Non-current 860 218 3,050 1,127 676 5,931 1 See note 24.
Post-retirement employee benefits The provision for post-retirement employee benefits includes pension plan liabilities of $392 million 2016: $428 million and post-retirement medical plan liabilities of $455 million 2016: $432 million, see note 22.
Other employee entitlements The employee entitlement provision represents the value of governed employee entitlements due to employees upon their termination of employment.
The associated expenditure will occur in a pattern consistent with when employees choose to exercise their entitlements.
Rehabilitation costs Rehabilitation provision represents the accrued cost required to provide adequate restoration and rehabilitation upon the completion of production activities.
These amounts will be settled when rehabilitation is undertaken, generally at the end of a projects life, which ranges from two to in excess of 50 years with an average for all sites, weighted by closure provision, of some 21years 2016: 16 years.
As at 31December 2017, the discount rate applied in calculating the restoration and rehabilitation provision is a pre-tax risk free rate specific to the liability and the currency in which they are denominated as follows: US dollar 2.0%, SouthAfrican rand 4.0%, Australian dollar 3.0%, Canadian dollar 2.5% and Chilean peso 3.0%.
Decreasing the discount rates used by 0.5% would result in an increase in the overall rehabilitation provision by $326 million, with a resulting equal movement in property, plant and equipment.
In the following year, the depreciation expense would increase by some $15 million, with an opposite direction interest expense adjustment of $10 million.
The resulting net impact in the statement of income would be a decrease of $5million, eventually netting to $Nil over the weighted average settlement date of the provision.
As outlined in note 1, significant estimates are required in determining the rehabilitation provisions and during the year, certain cost and timing estimates that were previously incorporated into the discount rate are now incorporated into the underlying rehabilitation cash flow forecasts.
As a result of these changes in estimates, the rehabilitation provision increased by $312 million, with a resulting equivalent increase in property, plant and equipment.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 168 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Onerous contracts Onerous contracts represent liabilities related to contractual take or pay commitments for securing coal logistics capacity at fixed prices and quantities higher than the acquisition date forecasted usage and prevailing market price.
The provision is released to costs of goods sold as the underlying commitments are incurred.
Other Other comprises provisions for possible demurrage, mine concession, tax and construction related claims.
Tax disputes Glencore assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years open to audit based upon the latest information available.
The current open tax matters are spread across numerous jurisdictions and consist primarily of legacy transfer pricing matters that have been open for a number of years and may take several more years to resolve.
Reasonably possible adverse outcomes are not considered to be individually material.
Accordingly, management does not anticipate a significant risk of material change in estimates within the next financialyear.
Personnel costs and employee benefits Total personnel costs, which include salaries, wages, social security, other personnel costs and share-based payments, incurred for the years ended 31December 2017 and 2016, were $4,656 million and $4,245 million, respectively.
Personnel costs related to consolidated industrial subsidiaries of $3,593 million 2016: $3,355 million are included in cost of goods sold.
Other personnel costs, including the deferred bonus and performance share plans, are included in selling and administrative expenses.
The Company and certain subsidiaries sponsor various pension schemes in accordance with local regulations and practices.
Eligibility for participation in the various plans is either based on completion of a specified period of continuous service, or date of hire.
Among these schemes are defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans.
Defined contribution plans Glencores contributions under these plans amounted to $133 million in 2017 2016: $118 million.
Post-retirement medical plans The Company participates in a number of post-retirement medical plans, principally in Canada, which provide coverage for prescription drugs, medical, dental, hospital and life insurance to eligible retirees.
Almost all of the post-retirement medical plans in the Group are unfunded.
Defined benefit pension plans The Company operates defined benefit plans in various countries, the main locations being Canada, Switzerland, UK and the U.
Approximately 72% of the present value of obligations accrued to date relates to the defined benefit plans in Canada, which are pension plans that provide benefits to members in the form of a guaranteed level of pension payable for life.
Contributions to the Canadian plans are made to meet or exceed minimum funding requirements based on provincial statutory requirements and associated federal taxation rules.
The majority of benefit payments are from trustee-administered funds: however, there are also a number of unfunded plans where Glencore meets the benefit payments as they fall due.
Plan assets held in trusts are governed by local regulations and practices in each country.
Responsibility for governance of the plans overseeing all aspects of the plans including investment decisions and contribution schedules lies with Glencore.
Glencore has set up committees to assist in the management of the plans and has also appointed experienced, independent professional experts such as investment managers, actuaries, custodians, and trustees.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 169 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued The movement in the defined benefit pension and post-retirement medical plans over the year is as follows: Defined benefit pension plans Present value Net liability of defined Fair value for defined Post-retirement benefit of plan benefit US$ million Notes medical plans obligation assets pension plans 1 January 2017 432 2,946 2,518 428 Current service cost 8 55 55 Past service cost plan amendments 8 8 Settlement 79 75 4 Interest expense income 17 98 86 12 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 25 66 11 55 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 169 169 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 11 11 Gain loss from change in financial assumptions 15 87 87 Loss gain from actuarial experience 3 8 8 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense Actuarial gains losses recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 12 68 169 101 Employer contributions 76 76 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid directly by the Company 20 9 9 Benefits paid from plan assets 171 171 Net cash outflow inflow 20 179 103 76 Exchange differences 30 189 171 18 31December 2017 455 3,090 2,766 324 Of which: Pension surpluses 10 68 Pension deficits 21 455 392 The actual return on plan assets in respect of defined benefit pension plans amounted to a gain of $426 million 2016: $206 million, comprising interest income and the remeasurement of plan assets.
During the next financial year, the Group expects to make a contribution of $105 million to the defined benefit pension and postretirement medical plans across all countries, including current service costs and contributions required by pension legislation.
Contributions over the next five years for the Canadian plans only, based on the most recently filed actuarial reports, approximate $337 million.
Future funding requirements and contributions are reviewed and adjusted on an annual basis.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 170 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Defined benefit pension plans Present value Net liability of defined Fair value for defined Post-retirement benefit of plan benefit US$ million Notes medical plans obligation assets pension plans 1 January 2016 457 3,405 3,059 346 Current service cost 7 67 67 Past service cost plan amendments 1 3 3 Settlement 94 90 4 Termination benefit 4 4 Interest expense income 18 126 116 10 Total expense recognised in consolidated statement of income 26 100 26 74 Gain on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense net 59 59 Gain from change in demographic assumptions 13 13 Loss from change in financial assumptions 5 137 137 Gain from actuarial experience 3 3 3 Change in asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in interest expense 4 4 Actuarial losses gains recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2 117 59 58 Employer contributions 72 72 Employee contributions 1 1 Benefits paid directly by the Company 20 9 9 Benefits paid from plan assets 192 192 Net cash outflow inflow 20 200 128 72 1 Disposal of subsidiaries 48 487 529 42 Exchange differences 15 11 31 20 Other 33 476 498 22 31December 2016 432 2,946 2,518 428 Of which: Pension surpluses 10 Pension deficits 21 432 428 1 See note 24.
The defined benefit obligation accrued in Canada represents the majority for the Company.
The breakdown below provides details of the Canadian plans for both the statement of financial position and the weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 31December 2017 and 2016.
The defined benefit obligation of any of the Groups defined benefit plans outside of Canada as at 31December 2017 does not exceed $230 million 2016: $227 million.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 171 Notes to the financial statements continued 22.
Personnel costs and employee benefits continued 2017 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 425 30 455 of which: amounts owing to active members 132 4 136 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 293 26 319 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,217 873 3,090 of which: amounts owing to active members 586 389 975 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 40 214 254 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,591 270 1,861 Fair value of plan assets 2,167 599 2,766 Net defined benefit liability at 31December 2017 50 274 324 Of which: Pension surpluses 68 68 Pension deficits 118 274 392 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 17 13 2016 US$ million Canada Other Total Post-retirement medical plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 402 30 432 of which: amounts owing to active members 123 4 127 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 279 26 305 Defined benefit pension plans Present value of defined benefit obligation 2,112 834 2,946 of which: amounts owing to active members 545 383 928 of which: amounts owing to non-active members 44 241 285 of which: amounts owing to pensioners 1,523 210 1,733 Fair value of plan assets 1,981 537 2,518 Net defined benefit liability at 31December 2016 131 297 428 Of which: Pension surpluses Pension deficits 131 297 428 Weighted average duration of defined benefit obligation years 12 18 14 Estimated future benefit payments of the Canadian plans, which reflect expected future service but exclude plan expenses, up until 2027 are as follows: Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total 2018 19 124 143 2019 19 126 145 2020 20 126 146 2021 20 126 146 2022 21 125 146 2023-2027 103 610 713 Total 202 1,237 1,439 The plan assets consist of the following: US$ million 2017 2016 Cash and short-term investments 31 105 Fixed income 1,343 1,210 Equities 1,189 1,076 Other 203 127 Total 2,766 2,518 All investments have been fair valued based on quoted market prices with the exception of securities of $23 million 2016: $18 million included in Other.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 172 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information The fair value of plan assets includes none of Glencores own financial instruments and no property occupied by or other assets used by Glencore.
For many of the plans, representing a large portion of the global plan assets, asset-liability matching strategies are in place, where the fixed-income assets are invested broadly in alignment with the duration of the plan liabilities, and the proportion allocated to fixed-income assets is raised when the plan funding level increases.
The asset mix for each plan reflects the nature, expected changes in, and size of the liabilities and the assessment of long-term economic conditions, market risk, expected investment returns as considered during a formal asset mix study, including sensitivity analysis and or scenario analysis, conducted periodically for the plans.
Through its defined benefit plans, Glencore is exposed to a number of risks, the most significant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields: if plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit.
The funded plans hold a significant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform bonds in the long term while contributing volatility and risk in the short term.
Glencore believes that due to the longterm nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of Glencores long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.
Change in bond yields: A decrease in bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans bond holdings.
Inflation risk: Some of the plans benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities, although, inmost cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation.
Life expectancy: The majority of the plans obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liability.
Salary increases: Some of the plans benefit obligations related to active members are linked to their salaries.
Higher salary increases will therefore tend to lead to higher plan liabilities.
The principal weighted-average actuarial assumptions used were as follows: Post-retirement medical plans Defined benefit pension plans 2017 2016 2017 2016 Discount rate 3.8% 4.1% 3.2% 3.5% Future salary increases 2.7% 2.8% Future pension increases 0.3% 0.3% Ultimate medical cost trend rate 4.3% 4.2% Mortality assumptions are based on the latest available standard mortality tables for the individual countries concerned.
As at 31December 2017, these tables imply expected future life expectancy, for employees aged 65, 19 to 24 years for males 2016: 19 to 24 and 23 to 25 years for females 2016: 22 to 25.
The assumptions for each country are reviewed regularly and are adjusted where necessary to reflect changes in fund experience and actuarial recommendations.
The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal assumptions as at 31December2017 is set out below, assuming that all other assumptions are held constant and the effect of interrelationships is excluded.
Increase decrease in pension obligation Post-retirement Defined benefit US$ million medical plans pension plans Total Discount rate Increase by 100 basis points 71 360 431 Decrease by 100 basis points 60 428 488 Rate of future salary increase Increase by 100 basis points 38 38 Decrease by 100 basis points 35 35 Rate of future pension benefit increase Increase by 100 basis points 34 34 Decrease by 100 basis points 32 32 Medical cost trend rate Increase by 100 basis points 61 61 Decrease by 100 basis points 50 50 Life expectancy Increase in longevity by one year 15 71 86 Glencore Annual Report 2017 173 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Accounts payable US$ million 2017 2016 Trade payables 24,664 22,438 Trade advances from buyers 451 892 1 Margin calls received 443 179 Associated companies 1,052 635 Other payables and accrued liabilities 2,216 2,032 Total 28,826 26,176 1 Includes $325 million 2016: $Nil of cash collateral receipts under margin arrangements related to cross currency swaps held to hedge non-U.
Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services.
Trade payables typically have maturities up to 90 days depending on the type of material and the geographic area in which the purchase transaction occurs and the agreed terms.
The carrying value of trade payables approximates fair value.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries 2017 Acquisitions In 2017, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Volcan and other businesses, none of which are individually material.
The net cash received used in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the provisional fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: US$ million Volcan Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 4,656 43 4,699 Intangible assets 76 76 Other investments 52 52 Deferred tax assets 2 2 1 Advances and loans 32 1 33 4,816 46 4,862 Current assets Inventories 80 2 82 1 Accounts receivable 206 5 211 Other financial assets 30 30 Cash and cash equivalents 81 3 84 397 10 407 Non-controlling interest 1,733 1,733 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 629 629 Deferred tax liabilities 986 986 Provisions 174 26 200 1,789 26 1,815 Current liabilities Borrowings 175 175 Accounts payable 386 6 392 Other financial liabilities 37 37 598 6 604 Total fair value of net assets acquired 1,093 24 1,117 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 81 3 84 2 Less: amounts previously recognised as other investments 359 359 Net cash used in acquisition of subsidiaries 653 21 674 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 174 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Volcan On 9 November 2017, Glencore completed a tender offer, acquiring an additional 42.3% of the Class A common voting shares in Volcan, a Peruvian zinc mining business listed on the Lima stock exchange, for a consideration of $734 million, thereby increasing its voting shares interest from 20.7% to 63.0%.
Glencores total economic interest including the class B common non-voting shares and excluding treasury shares increased from 7.7% to 23.3%.
As Glencore holds the majority of the voting shares, providing it the ability to appoint a controlling number of directors to the board, Glencore is required to account for Volcan using the full consolidation method in accordance with IFRS 10.
The fair values are provisional due to the complexity of the valuation process and the proximity of the transaction to year end.
The finalisation of the fair value of the acquired assets and liabilities will be completed within 12 months of the acquisition.
It is expected that adjustments could be made to the allocation of value between fixed asset classes, deferred taxes, rehabilitation and other provisions.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2017, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $696 million and additional attributable income of $93 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $160 million of revenue and $Nil of attributable income.
2016 Acquisitions In 2016, Glencore acquired controlling interests in Newlands Collinsville Abbot Point Joint Venture NCA.
The net cash received in the acquisition of subsidiaries and the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date are detailed below: US$ million NCA Other Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 39 20 59 1 Advances and loans 2 2 41 20 61 Current assets Inventories 41 7 48 1 Accounts receivable 24 6 30 Cash and cash equivalents 11 11 76 13 89 Non-current liabilities Provisions 242 4 246 242 4 246 Current liabilities Borrowings 10 10 Accounts payable 33 17 50 Provisions 1 1 Other financial liabilities 8 8 42 27 69 Total fair value of net liabilities assets acquired 167 2 165 Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired 11 11 Net cash received used in acquisition of subsidiaries 178 2 176 1 There is no material difference between the gross contractual amounts for loans and advances and accounts receivable and their fair value.
NCA In September 2016, Glencore completed the acquisition of the remaining 45% interest in NCA, for cash consideration received of $167million.
This increased Glencores ownership from 55% to 100%, providing the ability to exercise control over NCA.
If the acquisition had taken place effective 1 January 2016, the operation would have contributed additional revenue of $173 million and an additional attributable loss of $21 million.
From the date of acquisition, the operation contributed $72 million and $25 million of revenue and attributable income, respectively.
The acquisition accounting for NCA has now been finalised, with no adjustments to the previously reported provisional fair values.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 175 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued 2017 Disposals In 2017, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Rosh Pinah mine in Namibia Rosh Pinah and Perkoa mine in Burkina Faso Perkoa, together referred to as Zinc Africa and 51% of the large majority of its petroleum storage and logistics businesses HG Storage.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are detailed below: US$ million Zinc Africa HG Storage Others Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 266 169 57 492 Intangible assets 3 3 Investments in associates 170 170 Advances and loans 11 11 269 350 57 676 Current assets Inventories 58 4 7 69 Accounts receivable 43 68 15 126 Cash and cash equivalents 23 28 18 69 124 100 40 264 Non-controlling interest 4 25 29 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 31 10 41 Deferred tax liabilities 50 17 5 72 Provisions 24 33 57 74 48 48 170 Current liabilities Borrowings 2 2 Accounts payable 56 67 9 132 Income tax payable 2 2 58 69 9 136 Carrying value of net assets disposed 257 333 15 605 Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 Shares received 222 222 Future consideration 13 13 Items recycled to the statement of income 22 121 143 1 Reclassified to investment in joint venture 509 54 563 Provision for guarantees 20 20 Transaction fees 12 12 1 Net gain on disposal 232 674 173 1,079 Cash and cash equivalents received 245 530 775 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 23 28 18 69 Net cash received from disposal 222 502 18 706 1 Includes a gain of $383 million attributable to the remeasurement of the retained investment to its fair value upon change in control in HG Storage $363 million and Other $20 million.
Zinc Africa On 31 August 2017, Glencore completed the transaction with Trevali Mining Corporation Trevali a TSX listed zinc company, to sell its 80.1% equity interest in Rosh Pinah and its 90.0% equity interest in Perkoa.
The aggregate consideration received was $467 million, of which $245 million was cash and the remaining balance $222 million was 193.4 million shares in Trevali.
As a result of the transaction, Glencores direct ownership in Trevali increased from 4% to 25.6%.
Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of Rosh Pinah and Perkoa and was deemed to have disposed of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its share in Trevali using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 see note 9.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 176 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information HG Storage On 29December, Glencore completed the sale of a 51% interest in HG Storage International Ltd HG Storage, a group comprising the majority of Glencores petroleum products storage and logistics businesses excluding the U. S. to HNA Innovation Finance Group Co Ltd HNA for cash consideration of $530 million, including the assumption of certain debt.
Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of HG Storage and was deemed to have disposed of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its remaining remeasured share in HG Storage using the equity method in accordance with IAS 28 see note 9.
2016 Disposals In 2016, Glencore disposed of its controlling interest in the Glencore Agricultural Products business Glencore Agri, ErnestHenry mining operation EHM and its New South Wales coal rail haulage business GRail.
The carrying value of the assets and liabilities over which control was lost and the net cash received from these disposals are detailedbelow: US$ million Glencore Agri EHM GRail Others Total Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 2,919 244 413 212 3,788 Intangible assets 892 24 916 Investments in associates 624 624 Advances and loans 116 13 129 Deferred tax assets 103 1 104 4,654 244 413 250 5,561 Current assets Inventories 2,725 6 57 2,788 Accounts receivable 2,774 1 2 77 2,854 Other financial assets 746 2 748 Cash and cash equivalents 469 27 496 6,714 7 2 163 6,886 Non-controlling interest 37 29 66 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 602 1 603 Deferred tax liabilities 138 36 30 204 Provisions 111 9 40 160 851 45 71 967 Current liabilities Borrowings 3,751 35 3,786 Accounts payable 2,315 7 5 54 2,381 Provisions 36 1 37 Other financial liabilities 629 2 631 6,731 8 5 91 6,835 Carrying value of net assets disposed 3,749 198 410 222 4,579 Cash and cash equivalents received 3,125 198 840 198 4,361 Future consideration 46 46 Items recycled to the statement of income 602 602 1 Reclassified to investment in joint venture 3,125 3,125 Transaction fees 51 51 Net gain on disposal 1,848 430 22 2,300 Cash and cash equivalents received 3,125 198 840 198 4,361 Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed 469 27 496 Settlement of debt due from Glencore Agri 1,670 1,670 Net cash received from disposal 4,326 198 840 171 5,535 1 Includes a gain of $1,252million attributable to the remeasurement of the retained Glencore Agri investment to its fair value upon change in control.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 177 Notes to the financial statements continued 24.
Acquisition and disposal of subsidiaries continued Glencore Agri On 6 April 2016, Glencore announced that it had entered into an agreement with the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board for the sale of a 40% equity interest in Glencore Agri and on 9 June 2016, entered into an agreement with British Columbia Investment Management Corporation for the sale of a 10% equity interest in Glencore Agri.
The aggregate equity consideration for the combined 50% interest, including the indirect assumption of certain levels of net working capital and debt, amounted to $3.125 billion, payable in cash upon closing.
Glencore Agri represents the entire Agricultural products operating segment and was determined to be a discontinued operation prior to the close of transaction on 1December 2016, and has been disclosed as such.
Upon closing of the sale, Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of Glencore Agri and was deemed to have disposed of its controlling interest at fair value.
The difference to the net carrying value was recognised through the statement of income, with Glencore subsequently accounting for its share of the resulting joint venture using the equity method in accordance with IFRS 11 and IAS 28 see note 9.
The results of Glencore Agri included in the consolidated statement of income until loss of control are detailed below: US$ million 2016 Revenue 20,885 Cost of goods sold 20,256 Selling and administrative expenses 175 Share of income from associates 15 Gain on disposals and investments 33 Other expense - net 26 Interest income 9 Interest expense 79 Income before income taxes from discontinued operations 406 Income tax expense 131 275 Gain on disposal of Glencore Agri, including items recycled to the statement of income of $602million 1,848 Income for the year from discontinued operations 2,123 Attributable to: Non-controlling interests Equity holders of the Parent 2,123 Earnings per share discontinued operations: Basic US$ 0.15 Diluted US$ 0.15 The net cash flows incurred by Glencore Agri are as follows: US$ million 2016 Net cash used from operating activities, after working capital changes 855 Net cash used in investing activities 11 Net cash generated in financing activities 671 Net cash used in discontinued operations 195 EHM In October 2016, Glencore entered into an agreement with Evolution Mining Limited Evolution, whereby Glencore received $669million cash in return for a 30% economic interest in the Ernest Henry Mine mining operation EHM and an entitlement to 100% of the gold produced from Glencores remaining 70% interest in EHM.
The consideration received was allocated between the two elements of the transaction sale of the 30% interest and the 70% gold prepaid streaming arrangement by estimating the fair value of the gold stream by reference to the net present value of the anticipated gold to be delivered over the life of mine $471million with the residual amount representing the consideration for the 30% interest $198million.
As part of the transaction, Glencore and Evolution entered into a 70 30 joint venture agreement governing the operations of EHM.
As Glencore is no longer able to unilaterally direct the key strategic, operating and capital decisions of EHM, it is deemed to have lost control of EHM and, together with Evolution, jointly controls it.
As the new arrangement is an unincorporated joint venture, Glencore derecognised 30% of the identified assets and liabilities of EHM against the proceeds received as noted above.
GRail InDecember2016, Glencore disposed of its New South Wales coal rail haulage business to Genesee & Wyoming for cash consideration of $840million A$1.1 billion.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 178 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information 25.
Financial and capital risk management Financial risks arising in the normal course of business from Glencores operations comprise market risk including commodity price risk, interest rate risk and currency risk, credit risk including performance risk and liquidity risk.
It is Glencores policy and practice to identify and, where appropriate and practical, actively manage such risks for management of margin risk within Glencores extensive and diversified industrial portfolio, refer net present value at risk below to support its objectives in managing its capital and future financial security and flexibility.
Glencores overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to protect its financial security and flexibility by using derivative financial instruments where possible to substantially hedge these financial risks.
Glencores finance and risk professionals, working in coordination with the commodity departments, monitor, manage and report regularly to senior management and the Board of Directors on the approach and effectiveness in managing financial risks along with the financial exposures facing the Group.
Glencores objectives in managing its capital attributable to equity holders include preserving its overall financial health and strength for the benefit of all stakeholders, maintaining an optimal capital structure in order to provide a high degree of financial flexibility at an attractive cost of capital and safeguarding its ability to continue as a going concern, while generating sustainable long-term profitability.
Central to meeting these objectives is maintaining an investment grade credit rating status.
Glencores current credit ratings are Baa2 stable from Moodys and BBB positive outlook from S&P.
Distribution policy and other capital management initiatives Glencores cash distribution policy comprises two components: 1 a fixed $1 billion component and 2 a variable element representing a minimum 25% of free cash flow generated by our industrial assets during the year.
The actual variable distribution component minimum 25% pay-out guidance will reflect prevailing balance sheet position, market conditions and outlook and be confirmed annually in respect of prior periods cash flows.
Distributions are expected to be formally declared by the Board annually with the preliminary full-year results.
Distributions, when declared, will be settled equally in May and September of the year they are declared in.
In addition, alongside our half-year results reporting, the Board could formally declare an additional distribution to be included with the distribution confirmed with respect to the prior year.
Notwithstanding that the distribution is declared and paid in U. S. dollars, shareholders will be able to elect to receive their distribution payments in Pounds Sterling, Euros or Swiss Francs based on the exchange rates in effect around the date of payment.
Shareholders on the JSE will receive their distributions in South African Rand.
Commodity price risk Glencore is exposed to price movements for the inventory it holds and the products it produces which are not held to meet priced forward contract obligations and forward priced purchase or sale contracts.
Glencore manages a significant portion of this exposure through futures and options transactions on worldwide commodity exchanges or in over the counter OTC markets, to the extent available.
Commodity price risk management activities are considered an integral part of Glencores physical commodity marketing activities and the related assets and liabilities are included in other financial assets from and other financial liabilities to derivative counterparties, including clearing brokers and exchanges.
Whilst it is Glencores policy to substantially hedge its commodity price risks, there remains the possibility that the hedging instruments chosen may not always provide effective mitigation of the underlying price risk.
The hedging instruments available to the marketing businesses may differ in specific characteristics to the risk exposure to be hedged, resulting in an ongoing and unavoidable basis risk exposure.
Residual basis risk exposures represent a key focus point for Glencores commodity department teams who actively engage in the management of such.
Value at risk One of the tools used by Glencore to monitor and limit its primary market risk exposure, principally commodity price risk related to its physical marketing activities, is of a value at risk VaR computation.
VaR is a risk measurement technique which estimates a threshold for potential loss that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in risk factors over a specified time horizon, given a specific level of confidence and based on a specific price history.
The VaR methodology is a statistically defined, probabilitybased approach that takes into account market volatilities, as well as risk diversification by recognising offsetting positions and correlations between commodities and markets.
In this way, risks can be measured consistently across markets and commodities and risk measures can be aggregated to derive a single risk value.
Glencores Board has set an unchanged consolidated VaR limit one day 95% confidence level of $100million representing less than 0.5% of total equity, which the Board reviews annually.
There were no breaches of this limit during the year.
Glencore uses a VaR approach based on Monte Carlo simulations computed at a 95% confidence level and utilising a weighted data history for a one-day time horizon.
Position sheets are regularly distributed and monitored and daily Monte Carlo simulations are applied to the various business groups net marketing positions to determine potential losses.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 179 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Financial and capital risk management continued Market risk VaR one-day 95% confidence level ranges and year-end positions were as follows: US$million 2017 2016 Year-end position 18 31 Average during the year 25 42 High during the year 41 101 Low during the year 13 16 VaR does not purport to represent actual gains or losses in fair value on earnings to be incurred by Glencore, nor does Glencore claim that these VaR results are indicative of future market movements or representative of any actual impact on its future results.
VaR should always be viewed in the context of its limitations: notably, the use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future events, market illiquidity risks and tail risks.
Glencore recognises these limitations, and thus complements and continuously refines its VaR analysis by analysing forward looking stress scenarios, benchmarking against an alternative VaR computation based on historical simulations and back testing calculated VaR against the hypothetical portfolio returns arising in the next business day.
Glencores VaR computation currently covers its business in the key base metals including aluminium, nickel, zinc, copper and lead, coal, iron ore and oil natural gas and assesses the open priced positions which are subject to price risk, including inventories of these commodities.
Due to the lack of a liquid terminal market, Glencore does not include a VaR calculation for products such as alumina, molybdenum, cobalt, freight and some risk associated with concentrates as it does not consider the nature of these markets to be suited to this type of analysis.
Alternative measures are used to monitor exposures related to these products.
Net present value at risk Glencores future cash flows related to its forecast energy and metals and minerals production activities are also exposed to commodity price movements.
Glencore manages this exposure through a combination of portfolio diversification, occasional shorter-term hedging via futures and options transactions, insurance products and continuous internal monitoring, reporting and quantification of the underlying operations estimated cash flows and valuations.
Interest rate risk Glencore is exposed to various risks associated with the effects of fluctuations in the prevailing levels of market interest rates on its assets and liabilities and cash flows.
Matching of assets and liabilities is utilised as the dominant method to hedge interest rate risks: other methods include the use of interest rate swaps and similar derivative instruments.
Floating rate debt which is predominantly used to fund fast turning working capital interest is internally charged on the funding of this working capital is primarily based on US$ LIBOR plus an appropriate premium.
Accordingly, prevailing market interest rates are continuously factored into transactional pricing and terms.
Assuming the amount of floating rate liabilities at the reporting period end were outstanding for the whole year, interest rates were 50 basis points higher lower and all other variables held constant, Glencores income and equity for the year ended 31December 2017 would decrease increase by $110 million 2016: $100 million.
Currency risk The U. S. dollar is the predominant functional currency of the Group.
Currency risk is the risk of loss from movements in exchange rates related to transactions and balances in currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
Such transactions include operating expenditure, capital expenditure and to a lesser extent purchases and sales in currencies other than the functional currency.
Purchases or sales of commodities concluded in currencies other than the functional currency, apart from certain limited domestic sales at industrial operations which act as a hedge against local operating costs, are ordinarily hedged through forward exchange contracts.
Consequently, foreign exchange movements against the U. S. dollar on recognised transactions would have an immaterial financial impact.
Glencore enters into currency hedging transactions with leading .
Glencores debt related payments both principal and interest are primarily denominated in or swapped using hedging instruments into U. S. dollars.
Glencores operating expenses, being a small portion of its revenue base, are incurred in a mix of currencies of which the U. S. dollar, Swiss Franc, Pound Sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Euro, Kazakhstan Tenge, Colombian Peso and South African Rand are the predominant currencies.
Glencore has issued Euro, Swiss Franc, Sterling, Yen and Australian dollar denominated bonds see note 19.
Cross currency swaps were concluded to hedge the currency risk on the principal and related interest payments of these bonds.
These contracts were designated as cash flow hedges of the foreign currency risks associated with the bonds.
The fair value of these derivatives is asfollows: Notional amounts Recognised fair values Average US$ million Buy Sell Assets Liabilities maturity Cross currency swap agreements 2017 15,387 421 1,137 2020 Cross currency swap agreements 2016 14,179 26 2,873 2020 1 Refer to note 19 for details.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 180 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Credit risk Credit risk arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be able to settle obligations due to Glencore within their agreed payment terms.
Financial assets which potentially expose Glencore to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and advances, derivative instruments and non-current advances and loans.
Glencores credit management process includes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of counterparty exposure on a regular basis.
Glencores cash and cash equivalents are placed overnight with a diverse group of highly credit rated financial institutions.
Credit risk with respect to receivables and advances is mitigated by the large number of customers comprising Glencores customer base, their diversity across various industries and geographical areas, as well as Glencores policy to mitigate these risks through letters of credit, netting, collateral and insurance arrangements where appropriate.
Additionally, it is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable offsetting of balances due to from a common counterparty in the event of default by the counterparty.
Glencore actively and continuously monitors the credit quality of its counterparties through internal reviews and a credit scoring process, which includes, where available, public credit ratings.
Balances with counterparties not having a public investment grade or equivalent internal rating are typically enhanced to investment grade through the extensive use of credit enhancement products, such as letters of credit or insurance products.
Glencore has a diverse customer base, with no customer representing more than 3.3% 2016: 2.9% of its trade receivables on a gross basis taking into account credit enhancements or accounting for more than 3.5% of its revenues over the year ended 31December 2017 2016: 3.9%.
The maximum exposure to credit risk including performance risk see below, without considering netting agreements or without taking account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements, is equal to the carrying amount of Glencores financial assets seenote 26.
Performance risk Performance risk part of the broader credit risk subject matter, discussed above is inherent in contracts, with agreements in the future, to physically purchase or sell commodities with fixed price attributes, and arises from the possibility that counterparties may not be willing or able to meet their future contractual physical sale or purchase obligations to from Glencore.
Glencore undertakes the assessment, monitoring and reporting of performance risk within its overall credit management process.
Glencores market breadth, diversified supplier and customer base as well as the standard pricing mechanism in the vast majority of Glencores commodity portfolio which does not fix prices beyond three months, with the main exception being coal, where longer-term fixed price contracts are common, ensure that performance risk is adequately mitigated.
The commodity industry has trended towards shorter term fixed price contract periods, in part to mitigate against such potential performance risk, but also due to the continuous development of transparent and liquid spot commodity markets, with their associated derivative products and indexes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that Glencore is unable to meet its payment obligations when due, or that it is unable, on an ongoing basis, to borrow funds in the market on an unsecured or secured basis at an acceptable price to fund actual or proposed commitments.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and cash equivalents and availability of adequate committed funding facilities.
Glencore has set itself an internal minimum liquidity target to maintain at all times, including via available committed undrawn credit facilities of $3 billion 2016: $3 billion, which has purposely been substantially exceeded in recent years, accounting for the more volatile market backdrop.
Glencores credit profile, diversified funding sources and committed credit facilities, ensure that sufficient liquid funds are maintained to meet its liquidity requirements.
As part of its liquidity management, Glencore closely monitors and plans for its future capital expenditure and proposed investments, as well as credit facility refinancing extension requirements, well ahead of time.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 181 Notes to the financial statements continued 25.
Financial and capital risk management continued As at 31December 2017, Glencore had available committed undrawn credit facilities and cash amounting to $12,874 million 2016: $16,740 million.
The maturity profile of Glencores financial liabilities based on the contractual terms is as follows: 2017 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 10,071 7,637 2,710 4,114 9,402 33,934 Expected future interest payments 3,256 1,116 728 913 964 6,977 Accounts payable 28,826 28,826 Other financial liabilities 513 4,522 5,035 Total 13,840 8,753 3,438 5,027 43,714 74,772 Current assets 49,726 49,726 2016 US$ million After 5 years Due 3 5 years Due 2 3 years Due 1 2 years Due 0 1 year Total Borrowings 10,687 5,726 2,937 3,838 10,030 33,218 1 Expected future interest payments 3,394 1,099 722 845 981 7,041 Accounts payable 26,176 26,176 Other financial liabilities 403 6,386 6,789 Total 14,484 6,825 3,659 4,683 43,573 73,224 Current assets 43,412 43,412 1 The amount of disclosed expected future interest payments have been restated to include omitted future interest payments of $804 million and to collect the maturity profile.
Financial instruments Fair value of financial instruments The following tables present the carrying values and fair values of Glencores financial instruments.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal most advantageous market at the measurement date under current market conditions.
Where available, market values have been used to determine fair values.
When market values are not available, fair values have been calculated by discounting expected cash flows at prevailing market interest and exchange rates.
The estimated fair values have been determined using market information and appropriate valuation methodologies, but are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that Glencore could realise in the normal course of business.
The financial assets and liabilities are presented by class in the tables below at their carrying values, which generally approximate the fair values with the exception of $33,934 million 2016: $33,218 million of borrowings, the fair value of which at 31December 2017 was $34,776 million 2016: $33,673 million based on observable market prices applied to the borrowing portfolio a Level 2 fair value measurement.
Carrying Available 1 2 2017 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 2,268 690 2,958 Advances and loans 2,976 2,976 Accounts receivable 20,359 20,359 Other financial assets see note 27 2,311 2,311 4 Cash and cash equivalents 2,124 2,124 Total financial assets 23,335 2,268 5,125 30,728 Liabilities Borrowings 33,934 33,934 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 27 513 513 Accounts payable 28,826 28,826 Other financial liabilities see note 27 4,522 4,522 Total financial liabilities 62,760 5,035 67,795 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
2 FVtPL Fair value through profit and loss held for trading.
3 Other investments of $2,871 million 2016: $1,715 million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $87 million 2016: $38 million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and therefore carried at cost.
4 Classified as Level 1, measured using quoted exchange rates and or market prices.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 182 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Carrying Available 1 2 2016 US$ million value for sale FVtPL Total Assets 3 Other investments 1,457 296 1,753 Advances and loans 3,483 3,483 Accounts receivable 20,066 20,066 Other financial assets see note 27 2,212 2,212 4 Cash and cash equivalents 2,518 2,518 Total financial assets 23,549 1,457 5,026 30,032 Liabilities Borrowings 33,218 33,218 Non-current other financial liabilities see note 27 403 403 Accounts payable 26,176 26,176 Other financial liabilities see note 27 6,386 6,386 Total financial liabilities 59,394 6,789 66,183 1 Carrying value comprises investments, loans, accounts receivable, accounts payable and other liabilities measured at amortised cost.
3 Other investments of $1,715million are classified as Level 1 measured using quoted market prices with the remaining balance of $38million being investments in private companies whose fair value cannot be reliably measured and therefore carried at cost.
The movement in Level 1 measured investments compared to prior year see below, mainly relates to the Groups share in Russneft, which after the listing on the Moscow stock exchange in November 2016, is measured at fair value.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities In accordance with IAS 32 the Group reports financial assets and liabilities on a net basis in the consolidated statement of financial position only if there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
The financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting and similar agreements as at 31December2017 and 2016 were as follows: Total as presented Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off in the under netting agreements under netting agreements Amounts consolidated not subject statement Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2017 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 13,220 11,907 1,313 347 426 540 998 2,311 1 Derivative liabilities 15,162 11,907 3,255 347 2,430 478 1,267 4,522 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
Total as Amounts eligible for set off Related amounts not set off presented under netting agreements under netting agreements in the Amounts consolidated not subject statement Gross Amounts Net Financial Financial Net to netting of financial 2016 US$ million amount offset amount instruments collateral amount agreements position 1 Derivative assets 10,679 9,834 845 288 171 386 1,367 2,212 1 Derivative liabilities 14,288 9,834 4,454 288 3,784 382 1,932 6,386 1 Presented within current other financial assets and current other financial liabilities.
For the financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting or similar arrangements above, each agreement between the Group and the counterparty allows for net settlement of the relevant financial assets and liabilities when both elect to settle on a net basis.
In the absence of such an election, financial assets and liabilities may be settled on a gross basis, however, each party to the master netting or similar agreement will have the option to settle all such amounts on a net basis in the event of default of the other party.
Per the terms of each agreement, an event of default includes failure by a party to make payment when due, failure by a party to perform any obligation required by the agreement other than payment if such failure is not remedied within periods of 30 to 60days after notice of such failure is given to the party or bankruptcy.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 183 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Fair value measurements Fair values are primarily determined using quoted market prices or standard pricing models using observable market inputs where available and are presented to reflect the expected gross future cash in outflows.
Glencore classifies the fair values of its financial instruments into a three level hierarchy based on the degree of the source and observability of the inputs that are used to derive the fair value of the financial asset or liability as follows: Level 1 Inputs are quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that Glencore can assess at the measurement date, or Level 2 Inputs other than quoted inputs included in Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liabilities, either directly or indirectly, or Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the assets or liabilities, requiring Glencore to make market-based assumptions Level 1 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor of less than one year and options that are exchange traded, whereas Level 2 classifications primarily include futures with a tenor greater than one year, over the counter options, swaps and physical forward transactions which derive their fair value primarily from exchange quotes and readily observable broker quotes.
Level 3 classifications primarily include physical forward transactions which derive their fair value predominantly from models that use broker quotes and applicable market-based estimates surrounding location, quality and credit differentials and financial liabilities linked to the fair value of certain mining operations.
In circumstances where Glencore cannot verify fair value with observable market inputs Level 3 fair values, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value.
It is Glencores policy that transactions and activities in trade related financial instruments be concluded under master netting agreements or long form confirmations to enable balances due to from a common counterparty to be offset in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy by the counterparty.
The following tables show the fair values of the derivative financial instruments including trade related financial and physical forward purchase and sale commitments by type of contract and non-current other financial liabilities as at 31December2017 and 2016.
Other assets and liabilities which are measured at fair value on a recurring basis are marketing inventories, other investments, cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities.
Refer to notes 11 and 26 for disclosures in connection with these fair value measurements.
There are no non-recurring fair value measurements.
Other financial assets 2017 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 227 42 269 Options 93 37 130 Swaps 131 339 470 Physical forwards 582 356 938 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 421 421 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 83 83 Total 451 1,504 356 2,311 2016 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 207 154 361 Options 31 37 68 Swaps 166 146 312 Physical forwards 763 558 1,321 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 26 26 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 124 124 Total 404 1,250 558 2,212 Glencore Annual Report 2017 184 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Other financial liabilities 2017 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 2,029 84 2,113 Options 37 29 8 74 Swaps 121 372 493 Physical forwards 468 184 652 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 1,137 1,137 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 53 53 Current other financial liabilities 2,187 2,143 192 4,522 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 513 513 Non-current other financial liabilities 513 513 Total 2,187 2,143 705 5,035 2016 US$ million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Commodity related contracts Futures 1,068 150 1,218 Options 5 12 6 23 Swaps 846 321 1,167 Physical forwards 859 203 1,062 Financial contracts Cross currency swaps 2,873 2,873 Foreign currency and interest rate contracts 43 43 Current other financial liabilities 1,919 4,258 209 6,386 Non-current other financial liabilities 1 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 403 403 Non-current other financial liabilities 403 403 Total 1,919 4,258 612 6,789 1 A ZAR denominated derivative liability payable to ARM Coal, one of the Groups principal coal joint operations based in South Africa.
The liability arises from ARM Coals rights as an investor to a share of agreed free cash flows from certain coal operations in South Africa and is valued based on those cash flows using a risk adjusted discount rate.
The derivative liability is settled over the life of those operations modelled mine life of 25 years as at 31December 2017 and has no fixed repayment date and is not cancellable within 12 months.
The following table shows the net changes in fair value of Level 3 other financial assets and other financial liabilities: Physical Total US$ million forwards Options Other Level 3 1 January 2017 355 6 403 54 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 58 8 50 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 110 110 Realised 241 6 235 31December 2017 172 8 513 349 1 January 2016 19 1 186 168 Total gain loss recognised in cost of goods sold 258 6 252 Non-discretionary dividend obligation 217 217 Realised 78 1 79 31December 2016 355 6 403 54 During the year no amounts were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and no amounts were transferred into or out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy for either other financial assets or other financial liabilities.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 185 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Fair value measurements continued Some of the Groups financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period.
Thefollowing table provides information about how the fair values of these financial assets and financial liabilities are determined, in particular, the valuation techniques and inputs used.
Fair value of financial assets financial liabilities US$ million 2017 2016 Futures Level 1 Assets 227 207 Liabilities 2,029 1,068 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Futures Level 2 Assets 42 154 Liabilities 84 150 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 1 Assets 93 31 Liabilities 37 5 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 2 Assets 37 37 Liabilities 29 12 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Options Level 3 Assets Liabilities 8 6 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Standard option pricing model Significant unobservable inputs: Prices are adjusted by volatility differentials.
This significant unobservable input generally represents 2% 20% of the overall value of the instruments.
A change to a reasonably possible alternative assumption would not result in a material change in the underlying value.
Swaps Level 1 Assets 131 166 Liabilities 121 846 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Quoted bid prices in an active market Significant unobservable inputs: None Swaps Level 2 Assets 339 146 Liabilities 372 321 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Physical Forwards Level 2 Assets 582 763 Liabilities 468 859 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Prices are adjusted by a discount rate which captures the time value of money and counterparty credit considerations, such as history of non-performance, collateral held and current market developments, as required.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Glencore Annual Report 2017 186 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information US$ million 2017 2016 Physical Forwards Level 3 Assets 356 558 Liabilities 184 203 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Significant unobservable inputs: Valuation of the Groups commodity physical forward contracts categorised within this level is based on observable market prices that are adjusted by unobservable differentials, as required, including: Quality: Geographic location: Local supply & demand: Customer requirements: and Counterparty credit considerations.
These significant unobservable inputs generally represent 2%30% of the overall value of the instruments.
The valuation prices are applied consistently to value physical forward sale and purchase contracts, and changing a particular input to reasonably possible alternative assumptions does not result in a material change in the underlying value of the portfolio.
Cross currency swaps Level 2 Assets 421 26 Liabilities 1,137 2,873 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Foreign currency and interest rate contracts Level 2 Assets 83 124 Liabilities 53 43 Valuation techniques and key inputs: Discounted cash flow model Inputs include observable quoted prices sourced from exchanges or traded reference indices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Significant unobservable inputs: None Non-discretionary dividend obligation Level 3 Assets Liabilities 513 403 Valuation techniques: Discounted cash flow model Significant observable inputs: Forecast commodity prices: Discount rates using weighted average cost of capital methodology: Production models: Operating costs: and Capital expenditures.
The resultant liability is essentially a discounted cash flow valuation of the underlying mining operation.
Increases decreases in forecast commodity prices will result in an increase decrease to the value of the liability though this will be partially offset by associated increases decreases in the assumed production levels, operating costs and capital expenditures which are inherently linked to forecast commodity prices.
The valuation remains sensitive to price and a 10% increase decrease in commodity price assumptions would result in an $115million adjustment to the current carrying value.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 187 Notes to the financial statements continued 28.
Auditors remuneration US$ million 2017 2016 Remuneration in respect of the audit of Glencores consolidated financial statements 3 3 Other audit fees, primarily in respect of audits of accounts of subsidiaries 18 17 1 Audit-related assurance services 2 2 Total audit and related assurance fees 23 22 Transaction services 4 3 Taxation compliance services 2 3 Other taxation advisory services 2 2 Other assurance services 1 1 Total non-audit fees 9 9 Total professional fees 32 31 1 Audit-related assurance services primarily related to interim reviews of the Groups half-year accounts and quarterly accounts of the Groups publicly listedsubsidiaries.
Future commitments Capital expenditure for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment is generally funded through the cash flow generated by the respective industrial entities.
As at 31December2017, $987 million 2016: $776million, of which 93% 2016: 81% relates to expenditure to be incurred over the next year, was contractually committed for the acquisition of property, plant andequipment.
Certain of Glencores exploration tenements and licences require it to spend a minimum amount per year on development activities, a significant portion of which would have been incurred in the ordinary course of operations.
As at 31December 2017, $139 million 2016: $177 million of such development expenditures are to be incurred, of which 36% 2016: 20% are for commitments to be settled over the next year.
Glencore procures seagoing vessels chartering services to meet its overall marketing objectives and commitments.
As at 31December 2017, Glencore has committed to future hire costs to meet future physical delivery and sale obligations and expectations of $247 million 2016: $217 million, of which $76 million 2016: $105 million are with associated companies.
72% 2016: 46% of the total charters are for services to be received over the next two years.
As part of Glencores ordinary sourcing and procurement of physical commodities and other ordinary marketing obligations, the selling party may request that a financial institution act as either a the paying party upon the delivery of product and qualifying documents through the issuance of a letter of credit or b the guarantor by way of issuing a bank guarantee accepting responsibility for Glencores contractual obligations.
Similarly, Glencore is required to post rehabilitation and pension guarantees in respect of some of these future, primarily industrial, long-term obligations.
As at 31December 2017, $17,578 million 2016: $17,358 million of procurement and $3,615 million 2016: $2,972 million of rehabilitation and pension commitments have been issued on behalf of Glencore, which will generally be settled simultaneously with the payment for such commodity and rehabilitation and pension obligations.
Glencore has entered into various operating leases mainly as lessee for office and warehouse storage facilities.
Rental expenses for these leases totalled respectively $173 million and $157 million for the years ended 31December 2017 and 2016.
Future net minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: US$ million 2017 2016 Within 1 year 203 106 Between 2 5 years 401 245 After 5 years 189 97 Total 793 448 Glencore has entered into finance leases for various plant and equipment items, primarily vessels and machinery.
Future net minimum lease payments under finance leases together with the future finance charges are as follows: Undiscounted minimum Present value of minimum lease payments lease payments US$ million 2017 2016 2017 2016 Within 1 year 92 99 64 75 Between 1 and 5 years 255 259 182 172 After 5 years 209 222 146 154 Total minimum lease payments 556 580 392 401 Less: amounts representing finance lease charges 164 179 Present value of minimum lease payments 392 401 392 401 Glencore Annual Report 2017 188 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Future development and related commitments Acquisition of HVO On 27 July 2017, Glencore and Yancoal signed agreements relating to the acquisition of a 49% interest in the Hunter Valley Operations HVO coal mine in New South Wales, Australia following Yancoals acquisition of Coal & Allied C&A from Rio Tinto.
Under the terms of the agreements, Glencore will pay cash consideration of $1,139 million effective 1 September 2017 plus a 27.9% share of $240 million non-contingent royalties over five years and 49% of price contingent royalties payable by Yancoal to Rio Tinto on production from HVO in respect of the C&A acquisition.
The transaction is subject to customary regulatory approvals and is expected to close in H1 2018.
Acquisition of Chevron South Africa and Botswana On 6 October 2017, Glencore entered into an agreement with Off the Shelf Investments Fifty Six RF Proprietary Limited OTS to acquire from OTS i a 75% stake in Chevron South Africa Proprietary Limited Chevron SA and certain related interests and ii the entire issued share capital of Chevron Botswana Proprietary Limited Chevron Botswana following closing of OTSs exercise of its pre-emptive right to acquire these operations from the Chevron group.
The aggregate consideration subject to adjustment for debt and working capital is $973 million.
The transaction is conditional on the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals by OTS and Glencore and is expected to close in mid-2018.
Contingent liabilities The amount of corporate guarantees in favour of third parties as at 31December 2017 was $Nil 2016: $Nil.
The Group is subject to various claims which arise in the ordinary course of business as detailed below.
These contingent liabilities are reviewed on a regular basis and where practical an estimate is made of the potential financial impact on the Group.
As at 31December2017 and 2016 it was not practical to make such an assessment.
Litigation Certain legal actions, other claims and unresolved disputes are pending against Glencore.
Whilst Glencore cannot predict the results of any litigation, it believes that it has meritorious defences against those actions or claims.
Glencore believes the likelihood of any material liability arising from these claims to be remote and that the liability, if any, therefore resulting from any litigation will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Environmental contingencies Glencores operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations.
Glencore is in material compliance with those laws and regulations.
Glencore accrues for environmental contingencies when such contingencies are probable and reasonably estimable.
Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.
Recoveries of environmental remediation costs from insurance companies and other parties are recorded as assets when the recoveries are virtually certain.
At this time, Glencore is unaware of any material environmental incidents at its locations.
Any potential liability arising from these allegations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on its consolidated income, financial position or cash flows.
Margin Call Guarantee As part of the partnership with Qatar Investment Authority see note 9 and in relation to the joint ventures QHG ownership of Rosneft shares, Glencore provided a margin guarantee up to EUR1.4 billion.
The margin guarantee is subject to various loan to value thresholds related to the financing provided to QHG.
Appropriate Russian banks have in turn provided Glencore with a guarantee which can and will be called upon in the event of drawdown under Glencores margin guarantee facility with QHG.
As at 31December 2017, $Nil has been called under the QHG margin guarantee.
Following completion of the transaction, the margin guarantees provided by Glencore will terminate.
Related party transactions In the normal course of business, Glencore enters into various arms length transactions with related parties, including fixed price commitments to sell and to purchase commodities, forward sale and purchase contracts, agency agreements and management service agreements.
Outstanding balances at period end are unsecured and settlement occurs in cash see notes 10, 12, and 23.
There have been no guarantees provided or received for any related party receivables or payables.
All transactions between Glencore and its subsidiaries are eliminated on consolidation along with any unrealised profits and losses between its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
In 2017, sales and purchases with associates and joint ventures amounted to $1,859 million 2016: $1,570 million and $7,485 million 2016: $3,194 million respectively.
Remuneration of key management personnel Glencores key management personnel are the members of the Board of Directors, CEO, CFO and the heads of the operating segments.
The remuneration of Directors and other members of key management personnel recognised in the consolidated statement of income including salaries and other current employee benefits amounted to $22million 2016: $13million.
There were no other long-term benefits or share-based payments to key management personnel 2016: $Nil.
Further details on remuneration ofDirectors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on page 101.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 189 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Principal subsidiaries with material non-controlling interests Non-controlling interest is comprised of the following: US$ million 2017 2016 Volcan 1,733 Kazzinc 1,438 1,396 Koniambo 2,905 2,653 Katanga 965 511 Mutanda 767 1 Other 399 539 Total 300 462 1 Other comprises various subsidiaries in which no individual balance attributable to non-controlling interests is material.
Summarised financial information in respect of Glencores subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest as at 31December2017, reflecting 100% of the underlying subsidiarys relevant figures, is set out below.
US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Volcan 31December 2017 Non-current assets 4,659 1,502 4,333 4,754 Current assets 1,234 314 889 423 Total assets 5,893 1,816 5,222 5,177 Non-current liabilities 763 10,273 3,760 1,789 Current liabilities 378 112 2,593 562 Total liabilities 1,141 10,385 6,353 2,351 Net assets 4,752 8,569 1,131 2,826 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,314 5,664 166 1,093 1 Non-controlling interests 1,438 2,905 965 1,733 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 13.7% 76.7% 2017 Revenue 3,078 25 160 Expenses 2,517 494 1,004 160 Net profit loss for the year 561 494 979 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 395 242 575 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 166 252 404 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income loss for the year 561 494 979 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 124 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 764 177 Net cash outflow from investing activities 196 241 369 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 511 256 583 Total net cash inflow 57 15 37 1 Glencore has a 86.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes negative $939 million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $310million related to non-controlling interests arising at the KCC level.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 190 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information US$ million Kazzinc Koniambo Katanga Mutanda 31December 2016 Non-current assets 4,703 1,226 4,424 4,763 Current assets 1,014 294 652 549 Total assets 5,717 1,520 5,076 5,312 Non-current liabilities 719 9,494 3,380 1,885 Current liabilities 391 101 1,848 281 Total liabilities 1,110 9,595 5,228 2,166 Net assets 4,607 8,075 152 3,146 Equity attributable to owners of the Company 3,211 5,422 359 2,379 1 Non-controlling interests 1,396 2,653 511 767 Non-controlling interests in % 30.3% 51.0% 24.7% 31.0% 2016 Revenue 2,602 152 1,322 Expenses 2,211 529 625 1,147 Net profit loss for the year 391 377 625 175 Profit attributable to owners of the Company 273 184 310 121 1 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 118 193 315 54 Other comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Company Other comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests Total comprehensive income loss for the year 391 377 625 175 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 38 Net cash inflow outflow from operating activities 856 161 428 Net cash outflow from investing activities 122 263 213 234 Net cash outflow inflow from financing activities 567 210 338 195 Total net cash inflow outflow 167 53 36 1 1 Glencore has a 75.3% interest in Katanga Mining Limited, which in turn has a 75% interest in Kamoto Copper Company KCC, the entity engaged in copper mining activities.
The non-controlling interests balance includes negative $629million and the profit attributable to non-controlling interests balance includes negative $214million related to non-controlling interests arising at the KCC level.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 191 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2017 2016 Main activity Principal subsidiaries Metals and minerals 1 Minera Alumbrera Limited Antigua 50.0 50.0 Copper production Cobar Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Lomas Bayas Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Complejo Metalurgico Altonorte S. A. Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Minera Altos fide Punitaqui Limitada Chile 100.0 100.0 Copper production Compania Minera Antapaccay S. A. Peru 100.0 100.0 Copper production Pasar Group Philippines 78.2 78.2 Copper production Glencore Recycling Inc. USA 100.0 100.0 Copper production Mopani Copper Mines plc Zambia 73.1 73.1 Copper production Sable Zinc Kabwe Limited Zambia 100.0 100.0 Copper production 2 Katanga Mining Limited Canada 86.3 75.3 Copper Cobalt production Mutanda Group DRC 100.0 69.0 Copper Cobalt production Mount Isa Mines Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Copper Zinc Lead production Kazzinc Ltd. Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Zhairemsky GOK JSC Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Copper Zinc Lead production Vasilkovskoye Gold Kazakhstan 69.7 69.7 Gold production Energia Austral Joint Venture Chile 66.6 66.6 Hydroelectric project African Carbon Producers Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production African Fine Carbon Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Char Technology Pty Ltd South Africa 100.0 100.0 Char production Sphere Minerals Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Iron Ore exploration Britannia Refined Metals Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Lead production Glencore Manganese Group France Norway 100.0 100.0 Manganese furnace Access World Group Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Logistics services Murrin Murrin Group Australia 100.0 100.0 Nickel production 3 Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. New Caledonia 49.0 49.0 Nickel production Glencore Nikkelverk AS Norway 100.0 100.0 Nickel production Eland Platinum Mines Pty Limited South Africa 0.0 74.0 Platinum production McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Perkoa Group Burkina Faso 0.0 90.0 Zinc production Nordenhammer Zinkhtte GmbH Germany 100.0 100.0 Zinc production Asturiana fide Zinc S. A. Spain 100.0 100.0 Zinc production 4 Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. Peru 23.3 7.3 Zinc production AR Zinc Group Argentina 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Portovesme S. r. L. Italy 100.0 100.0 Zinc Lead production Rosh Pinah Zinc Corporation Pty Limited Namibia 0.0 80.1 Zinc Lead production Empresa Minera Los Quenuales S. A. Peru 97.6 97.6 Zinc Lead production Sinchi Wayra Group Bolivia 100.0 100.0 Zinc Tin production 1 This investment is treated as a subsidiary as the Group is entitled to elect the chairman of the Board who has the casting vote where any vote is split equally between the four board positions.
Minera Alumbrera Limiteds principal place of business is Argentina.
2 Publicly traded on the Toronto Stock Exchange under the symbol KAT.
TO and principal place of business is DRC.
3 The Group has control of Koniambo Nickel S. A. S. as a result of the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the financing arrangements underlying the Koniambo project.
4 The Group has control of Volcan Compania Minera S. A.
A. as a result of the ability to control the entity through the voting of its 63.0% of the voting shares Class A : the economic interest is diluted by the outstanding non-voting shares Class B. Glencore Annual Report 2017 192 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2017 2016 Main activity Energy products Cumnock No.
1 Colliery Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Foydell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Enex Liddell Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oakbridge Pty Ltd Australia 78.0 78.0 Coal production Glencore Coal Queensland Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Jonsha Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mangoola Coal Operations Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Mt Owen Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Newlands, Collinsville Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Oceanic Coal Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ravensworth Operations Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Limited Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production United Collieries Pty Ltd Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal production Prodeco Group Colombia 100.0 100.0 Coal production 5 Izimbiwa Coal Pty Ltd South Africa 49.9 49.9 Coal production 6 Umcebo Mining Pty Ltd South Africa 48.7 48.7 Coal production Tavistock Collieries Pty Limited South Africa 100.0 100.0 Coal production Topley Corporation B. V. I.
100.0 100.0 Ship owner Glencore Exploration Cameroon Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Glencore Exploration EG Ltd. Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil production Petrochad Mangara Limited Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Oil exploration production Chemoil Energy Limited Hong Kong 100.0 100.0 Oil storage and bunkering 5 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Izimbiwa through the ability to direct the key activities of the operation and to appoint key management personnel provided by the terms of the shareholders agreement.
6 Although Glencore holds less than 50% of the voting rights, it has the ability to exercise control over Umcebo as a result of shareholder agreements which provide Glencore the ability to control the Board of Directors.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 193 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Principal operating, finance and industrial subsidiaries and investments continued Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2017 2016 Main activity Other operating and finance Xstrata Limited UK 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Operations Australia Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Queensland Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Investment Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Holding Glencore Australia Holdings Pty Ltd Australia 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Bermuda Ltd Bermuda 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Canada Financial Corp Canada 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Finance Europe Limited Jersey 100.0 100.0 Finance Finges Investment B. V. Netherlands 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Schweiz AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Group Funding Limited UAE 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Funding LLC USA 100.0 100.0 Finance Glencore Australia Oil Pty Limited Australia 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Canada Corporation Canada 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Singapore Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating ST Shipping & Transport Pte Ltd Singapore 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore International AG Switzerland 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Commodities Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore Energy UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating Glencore UK Ltd UK 100.0 100.0 Operating 7 Principal joint ventures Glencore Agriculture Limited Jersey 49.9 49.9 Agriculture business 8 Clermont Coal Group Australia 25.1 25.1 Coal production BaseCore Metals LP Canada 50.0 0.0 Copper production Compania Minera Dona Ines fide Collahuasi Chile 44.0 44.0 Copper production El Aouj Joint Venture Mauritania 50.0 50.0 Iron Ore production 9 Principal joint operations United Joint Venture Australia 95.0 95.0 Coal exploration Wandoan Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal exploration Bulga Joint Venture Australia 68.3 68.3 Coal production Cumnock Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production Foybrook Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Liddell Joint Venture Australia 67.5 67.5 Coal production Oaky Creek Coal Joint Venture Australia 55.0 55.0 Coal production Rolleston Joint Venture Australia 75.0 75.0 Coal production Ulan Coal Mines Joint Venture Australia 90.0 90.0 Coal production 7 The principal joint arrangements are accounted for as joint ventures as the shareholder agreements do not provide the Group the ability to solely control the entities.
8 The Groups effective 25.05% economic interest in Clermont Coal is held through GS Coal Pty Ltd, a 50:50 joint venture with Sumitomo Corporation.
9 Classified as joint operations under IFRS 11, as these joint arrangements are not structured through separate vehicles.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 194 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Country % interest % interest of incorporation 2017 2016 Main activity Principal joint operations continued ARM Coal Pty Ltd. South Africa 49.0 49.0 Coal production Goedgevonden Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Coal production Ernest Henry Mining Pty Ltd. Australia 70.0 70.0 Copper production Merafe Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 79.5 79.5 Ferroalloys production Kabanga Joint Venture Tanzania 50.0 50.0 Nickel production Mototolo Joint Venture South Africa 38.0 37.0 Platinum production Rhovan Pooling and Sharing Joint Venture South Africa 74.0 74.0 Vanadium production Principal associates Carbones del Cerrejon LLC Colombia 33.3 33.3 Coal production Port Kembla Coal Terminal Limited Australia 29.7 29.7 Coal terminal Port Waratah Coal Services Ltd Australia 15.5 15.5 Coal terminal Wiggins Island Coal Export Terminal Australia 20.0 16.7 Coal terminal Richards Bay Coal Terminal Company Limited South Africa 26.7 26.7 Coal terminal Polymet Mining Corp. Canada 28.4 28.4 Copper production 10 Century Aluminum Company USA 47.4 47.5 Diversified production HG Storage International Limited Jersey 49.0 100.0 Oil storage Noranda Income Fund Canada 25.0 25.0 Zinc production 11 Trevali Mining Company Canada 25.6 5.3 Zinc production Compania Minera Antamina S. A. Peru 33.8 33.8 Zinc Copper production Recylex S. A. France 32.2 32.2 Zinc Lead production Other investments United Company Rusal plc Jersey 8.8 8.8 Aluminium production 12 OAO NK Russneft Russia 25.0 25.0 Oil production 10 Represents the Groups economic interest in Century, comprising 42.9% 2016: 42.9% voting interest and 4.5% non-voting interest 2016: 4.6%.
Century is publicly traded on NASDAQ under the symbol CENX.
11 In August 2017, the Group acquired an additional interest in Trevali Mining Corporation in exchange for interests in Rosh Pinah, Perkoa and cash consideration of$245million.
12 Although the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights in Russneft, it is unable to exercise significant influence over the financial and operating policy decisions ofRussneft.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 195 Additional information 197 Alternative performance measures 202 Other reconciliations 204 P roduction by quarter Q4 2016to Q4 2017 211 Resources and reserves 219 Shareholder information Glencore Annual Report 2017 196
