Strategic report Governance Financial statements NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 1.
AUTHORISATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2018 and the balance sheets were signed on the Boards behalf by Mark Dixon and Dominik fide Daniel.
IWG plc is a public limited company incorporated in Jersey and registered and domiciled in Switzerland.
The Companys ordinary shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
IWG plc owns a network of business centres which are utilised by a variety of business customers.
Information on the Groups structure is provided in note 32, and information on other related party relationships of the Group is provided in note 31.
The Group financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with Companies Jersey Law 1991 and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union Adopted IFRSs.
The Company prepares its parent company annual accounts in accordance with accounting policies based on the Swiss Code of Obligations: extracts from these are presented on page 126.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The Group financial statements consolidate those of the parent company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the Group and equity account the Groups interest in joint ventures.
The extract from the parent company annual accounts presents information about the Company as a separate entity and not about its Group.
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these Group financial statements.
Amendments to adopted IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC with an effective date from 1 January 2017 did not have a material effect on the Group financial statements, unless otherwise indicated.
The following standards, interpretations and amendments to standards were adopted by the Group for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2017: IAS 7 Disclosure Initiative Amendments to IAS 7 IAS 12 Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised losses Amendments to IAS 12 Various Annual Improvements 2012 2014 Cycle Judgements made by the Directors in the application of these accounting policies that have significant effect on the consolidated financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 33.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on a historical cost basis, with the exception of certain financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value as described in note 24.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements on pages 80 to 125.
In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the consolidated financial statements, the Directors have considered the further information included in the business activities commentary as set out on pages 24 to 27 as well as the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 38 to 43.
Further details on the going concern basis of preparation can be found in note 24 to the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
These Group consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is IWG plcs functional currency, and all values are in million pounds, rounded to one decimal place, except where indicated otherwise.
The attributable results of those companies acquired or disposed of during the year are included for the periods of ownership.
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, whereby the Group has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, rather than rights to its assets and obligations for its liabilities.
The consolidated financial statements include the Groups share of the total recognised gains and losses of joint ventures on an equity accounted basis, from the date that joint control commences until the date that joint control ceases or the joint venture qualifies as a disposal group, at which point the investment is carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value.
When the Groups share of losses exceeds its interest in a joint venture, the Groups carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of a joint venture.
85 Notes to the accounts continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED On 19 December 2016, under a Scheme of Arrangement between Regus plc, the former holding company of the Group, and its shareholders, under Article 125 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991, and as sanctioned by The Royal Court of Jersey, all the issued shares in Regus plc were cancelled and an equivalent number of new shares in Regus plc were issued to IWG plc in consideration for the allotment to shareholders of one ordinary share in IWG plc for each ordinary share in Regus plc that they held on the record date 18 December 2016.
The establishment of IWG plc as the new parent company was accounted for as a common control transaction under IFRS.
Consequently, no fair value acquisition adjustments were required and the aggregate of the Group reserves have been attributed to IWG plc.
IFRSs not yet effective The following new or amended standards and interpretations that are mandatory for 2018 annual periods and future years will be applicable to the Company: IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 1 January 2018 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1 January 2018 IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019 There are no other IFRS standards or interpretations that are not yet effective that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group.
The Group has not early adopted any standard, interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not yet effective.
The impact of these new or amended standards and interpretations has been considered as follows: Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 9 The Group is required to adopt IFRS 9 Financial Instruments from 1 January 2018.
The Group has assessed the estimated impact that initial application of IFRS 9 will have on the consolidated financial statements.
IFRS 9 Financial Instruments sets out requirements for recognising and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to buy and sell non-financial items.
This standard replaces IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
Classification financial assets IFRS 9 contains a new classification and measurement approach for financial assets that reflects the business model in which assets are managed and their cash flow characteristics.
It contains three principal classification categories for financial assets: measured at amortised costs, fair value through other comprehensive income OCI and fair value through the profit or loss.
The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 categories of held to maturity, loans and receivables and available for sale.
Under IFRS 9, derivatives embedded in contracts where the host is a financial asset in the scope of the standard are never bifurcated.
Instead, the hybrid financial instrument as a whole is assessed for classification.
Based on its assessment, the Group concludes that the new classification requirements will not have a material impact on any of its accounting balances.
Furthermore, at 31 December 2017, the Group did not have any balances classified as available-for-sale.
Consequently, there are no adjustments to be recognised in either the income statement or other comprehensive income.
Classification financial liabilities IFRS 9 largely retains the existing requirements in IAS 39 for the classification of financial liabilities.
However, under IAS 39 all fair value changes of liabilities designated as at fair value through the profit or loss are recognised in profit or loss, whereas under IFRS 9 these fair value changes are generally presented as follows: The amount of change in fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the liability is presented in other comprehensive income: and The remaining amount of change in the fair value is presented in profit or loss.
The Group has not designated any financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss and it has no current intention to do so.
The Groups assessment did not indicate any change in the classification of financial liabilities at 1 January 2018.
Impairment financial assets IFRS 9 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all of its trade receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Group will apply the simplified approach and record lifetime expected losses on all trade receivables.
The Group has determined that due to the nature of its receivables, taking into account the customer deposits obtained, the impact of applying IFRS 9 will not significantly impact the provision for bad debts.
86, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Hedge accounting IFRS 9 requires the Group to ensure that hedge accounting relationships are aligned with the Groups risk management objectives and strategy and to apply a more qualitative and forward-looking approach to assessing hedge effectiveness.
IFRS 9 also introduces new requirements on rebalancing hedge relationships and prohibiting voluntary discontinuation of hedge accounting.
Under the new model, it is possible that more risk management strategies, particularly those involving hedging a risk component other than foreign currency risk of non-financial items, will be likely to qualify for hedge accounting.
The Group is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate movements.
The majority of day-to-day transactions of overseas subsidiaries are carried out in local currency and the underlying foreign exchange exposure is small.
Transactional exposures do arise in some countries where it is local market practice for a proportion of the payables or receivables to be in other than the functional currency of the affiliate.
Intercompany charging, funding and cash management activity may also lead to foreign exchange exposures.
It is the policy of the Group to seek to minimise such transactional exposures through careful management of non-local currency assets and liabilities, thereby minimising the potential volatility in the income statement.
Net investments in IWG affiliates with a functional currency other than sterling are of a long-term nature and the Group does not normally hedge such foreign currency translation exposures.
From time to time the Group uses short-term derivative financial instruments to manage its transactional foreign exchange exposures where these exposures cannot be eliminated through balancing the underlying risks.
The Group designates these derivatives as fair value hedges.
The Group determined that all existing hedge relationships that are currently designated in effective hedging relationships will continue to qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
The Group has chosen not to retrospectively apply IFRS 9 on transition.
As IFRS 9 does not change the general principles of how an entity accounts for effective hedges, applying the hedging requirements of IFRS 9 will not impact the Groups financial statements.
Estimated impact of the adoption of IFRS 15 IFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for determining whether, how much and when revenue is recognised.
It replaces existing revenue recognition guidance, including IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
The Group is involved in the provision of flexible workspace, as well as performing related services.
Revenue from the provision of these services to customers is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable excluding sales taxes.
Where rent-free periods are granted to customers, rental income is spread on a straight-line basis over the length of the customer contract.
The services performed are based on the list price at which the Group provides the contracted services.
Based on the Groups assessment, the fair value of the service performed under IAS 18 are consistent with IFRS 15.
Therefore, the Group does not expect the application of IFRS 15 to result in any differences in the timing of the performance and the recognition of the revenue, for these services.
IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 replaces existing leases guidance, including IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
Early adoption is permitted for entities that apply IFRS 15 at or before the date of initial application of IFRS 16.
IFRS 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model for lessees.
A lessee recognises a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and lease liability representing its obligation to make lease payments.
There are recognition exemptions for short-term leases and leases of low-value items.
Lessor accounting remains similar to the current standard i. e. lessors continue to classify leases as finance or operating leases.
The Group has completed an initial assessment of the potential impact on its consolidated financial statements but has not yet completed its detailed assessment.
The actual impact of applying IFRS 16 on the financial statements in the period of initial application will depend on future economic conditions, including the Groups borrowing rate at 1 January 2019, the composition of the Groups lease portfolio at that date, the Groups assessment of whether it will exercise any lease renewal options and the extent to which the Group chooses to use practical measures and recognition exemptions.
The most significant impact identified is the right-of-use asset and related lease liability the Group will recognise for its leases in respect of its global network, which will be further dependant on the transition method adopted.
In addition, the nature of expenses related to those leases will change as IFRS 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease expense with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and an interest expense on the lease liabilities.
The Group does not expect the adoption of IFRS 16 to impact its ability to comply with the covenant requirements on its revolving credit facility described in note 24.
87 87 Notes to the accounts continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Basis of consolidation Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group.
Control exists when the Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has the rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences.
The results are consolidated until the date control ceases or the subsidiary qualifies as a disposal group, at which point the assets and liabilities are carried at the lower of fair value less costs to sell and carrying value.
Impairment of non-financial assets For goodwill, assets that have an indefinite useful life and intangible assets that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount was estimated at 30 September 2017.
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amount of these assets to determine whether there is an indicator of impairment.
If any indicator is identified then the assets recoverable amount is re-evaluated.
The carrying amount of the Groups other non-financial assets other than deferred tax assets are reviewed at the reporting date to determine whether there is an indicator of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit CGU exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
A CGU is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
The Group has identified individual business centres as the CGU.
We evaluate the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment at the centre CGU level where there are indicators of impairment.
Centres CGUs are grouped by country of operation for the purposes of carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill as this is the lowest level at which it can be assessed.
Individual fittings and equipment in our centres or elsewhere in the business that become obsolete or are damaged are assessed and impaired where appropriate.
Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of relevant assets is the greater of their fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
Goodwill All business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
Goodwill is initially measured at fair value, being the excess of the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group re-assesses whether it has correctly identified all of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the acquisition date.
If the re-assessment still results in an excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, then the gain is recognised in profit or loss.
Positive goodwill is stated at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
An impairment test is carried out annually and, in addition, whenever indicators exist that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Intangible assets Intangible assets acquired separately from the business are capitalised at cost.
Intangible assets acquired as part of an acquisition of a business are capitalised separately from goodwill if their fair value can be identified and measured reliably on initial recognition.
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets as follows: Brand Regus brand Indefinite life Brand Other acquired brands 20 years Computer software Up to 5 years Customer lists 2 years Management agreements Minimum duration of the contract Amortisation of intangible assets is expensed through administration expenses in the income statement.
88, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Acquisitions of non-controlling interests Acquisitions of non-controlling interests are accounted for as transactions with owners in their capacity as owners and therefore no goodwill is recognised as a result.
Adjustments to non-controlling interests arising from transactions that do not involve the loss of control are based on a proportionate amount of the net assets of the subsidiary.
Assets held for sale Assets held for sale are measured at the lower of the carrying value of the identified asset and its fair value less cost to sell.
Leases Plant and equipment leases for which the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases.
All other leases, including all of the Groups property leases, are categorised as operating leases.
Operating leases Minimum lease payments under operating leases are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease incentives, including partner contributions and rent-free periods, are included in the calculation of minimum lease payments.
The commencement of the lease term is the date from which the Group is entitled to use the leased asset.
The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease, together with any further periods for which the Group has the option to continue to lease the asset and when at the inception of the lease it is reasonably certain that the Group will exercise that option.
Contingent rentals include rent increases based on future inflation indices or non-guaranteed rental payments based on centre turnover or profitability and are excluded from the calculation of minimum lease payments.
Contingent rentals are recognised in the income statement as they are incurred.
Onerous lease provisions are an estimate of the net amounts payable under the terms of the lease to the first break point, at the Groups option, discounted at an appropriate pre-tax rate that reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Partner contributions Partner contributions are contributions from our business partners property owners and landlords towards the initial costs of opening a business centre, including the fit-out of the property and the losses that we incur early in the centre life.
The partner contribution is treated as a lease incentive and is amortised over the period of the lease.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the assets as follows: Buildings 50 years Leasehold improvements 10 years Furniture 10 years Office equipment and telephones 5 years Computer hardware 3 5 years Revenue Revenue from the provision of services to customers is measured at the fair value of consideration received or receivable excluding sales taxes.
Workstations Workstation revenue is recognised when the provision of the service is rendered.
Amounts invoiced in advance are accounted for as deferred income and recognised as revenue upon provision of the service.
Customer service income Service income including the rental of meeting rooms is recognised as services are rendered.
In circumstances where IWG acts as an agent for the sale and purchase of goods to customers, only the commission fee earned is recognised as revenue.
Management and franchise fees Fees received for the provision of initial and subsequent services are recognised as revenue as the services are rendered.
Fees charged for the use of continuing rights granted by the agreement, or for other services provided during the period of the agreement, are recognised as revenue as the services are provided or the rights used.
Membership card income Revenue from the sale of membership cards is deferred and recognised over the period that the benefits of the membership card are expected to be provided.
These categories represent all material sources of revenue earned from the provision of global workplace solutions.
89 Notes to the accounts continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Employee benefits The majority of the Groups pension plans are of the defined contribution type.
For these plans the Groups contribution and other paid and unpaid benefits earned by the employees are charged to the income statement as incurred.
The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit method.
Re-measurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding net interest and the return on plan assets, excluding net interest, are recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a corresponding debit or credit to retained earnings through other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.
Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods.
Service costs are recognised in profit or loss, and include current and past service costs as well as gains and losses on curtailments.
Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.
The Group recognises the following changes in the net defined benefit obligation under cost of sales and selling, general and administration expenses in the consolidated income statement: service costs comprising current service costs: past service costs: and gains and losses on curtailments and non-routine settlements.
Settlements of defined benefit schemes are recognised in the period in which the settlement occurs.
Share-based payments The share awards programme entitles certain employees and Directors to acquire shares of the ultimate parent company: these awards are granted by the ultimate parent and are equity settled.
The fair value of options granted is recognised as an employee expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted is measured using the Black-Scholes valuation model or the Monte Carlo method, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of share options that vest in respect of non-market conditions except where forfeiture is due to the expiry of the option.
Share awards are granted by the Company to certain employees and are equity settled.
The fair value of the amount payable to the employee is recognised as an expense with a corresponding increase in equity.
The fair value is initially recognised at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally entitled to payment.
The fair value of the share awards is measured based on the Monte Carlo valuation model, taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the instruments were granted.
The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number of awards that vest in respect of non-market conditions.
Taxation Tax on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity.
Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes.
The following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill: the initial recognition of assets and liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination: and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future.
The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised for all unused tax losses only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Provisions A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation.
Restructuring provisions are made for direct expenditures of a business reorganisation where the plans are sufficiently detailed and well advanced and where the appropriate communication to those affected has been undertaken at the reporting date.
Provision is made for onerous contracts to the extent that the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under a contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be delivered, discounted using an appropriate weighted average cost of capital.
90, : 3 & $118$ 5 3257 $1' $&&28176 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Equity Equity instruments issued by the Group are recorded at the value of proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
When shares recognised as equity are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented in the treasury share reserve.
When treasury shares are sold or re-issued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is presented within retained earnings.
Net finance expenses Interest charges and income are accounted for in the income statement on an accruals basis.
Financing transaction costs that relate to financial liabilities are charged to interest expense using the effective interest rate method and are recognised within the carrying value of the related financial liability on the balance sheet.
Fees paid for the arrangement of credit facilities are recognised as a prepayment and recognised through the finance expense over the term of the facility.
Where assets or liabilities on the Group balance sheet are carried at net present value, the increase in the amount due to unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance expense or finance income as appropriate.
Costs arising on bank guarantees and letters of credit and foreign exchange gains or losses are included in other finance costs note 8.
Interest bearing borrowings and other financial liabilities Financial liabilities, including interest bearing borrowings, are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are stated at amortised cost with any difference between cost and redemption value being recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings on an effective interest rate method.
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired.
Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss where the liability is either held for trading or is designated as held at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are stated at fair value with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets Financial assets are classified either at fair value through profit or loss, held-to-maturity investments, available-for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables.
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined on initial recognition.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are measured at fair value and changes therein, including any interest or dividend income, are recognised in profit or loss.
Held-to-maturity financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Available-for-sale financial assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, they are measured at fair value and changes therein, other than impairment losses and foreign currency differences on debt instruments, are recognised in OCI and accumulated in the fair value reserve.
When these assets are derecognised, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is reclassified to profit or loss.
Trade and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when recognition would be immaterial.
Customer deposits Deposits received from customers against non-performance of the contract are held on the balance sheet as a current liability until they are returned to the customer at the end of their relationship with the Group.
Foreign currency transactions and foreign operations Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the closing rate of exchange at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are taken to the income statement.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
The results and cash flows of foreign operations are translated using the average rate for the period.
Assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments, of foreign operations are translated using the closing rate, with all exchange differences arising on consolidation being recognised in other comprehensive income, and presented in the foreign currency translation reserve in equity.
Exchange differences are released to the income statement on disposal.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
