Notes to the accounts continued 2.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED Derivative financial instruments The Groups policy on the use of derivative financial instruments can be found in note 24.
Derivative financial instruments are measured initially at fair value and changes in the fair value are recognised through profit or loss unless the derivative financial instrument has been designated as a cash flow hedge whereby the effective portion of changes in the fair value are deferred in equity.
SEGMENTAL ANALYSIS STATUTORY BASIS An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenue and incur expenses.
An operating segments results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker the Board of Directors of the Group to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
The business is run on a worldwide basis but managed through four principal geographical segments the Groups operating segments : Americas: EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa : Asia Pacific: and the United Kingdom.
These geographical segments exclude the Groups non-trading, holding and corporate management companies.
The results of business centres in each of these regions form the basis for reporting geographical results to the chief operating decision maker.
All reportable segments are involved in the provision of global workplace solutions.
The Groups reportable segments operate in different markets and are managed separately because of the different economic characteristics that exist in each of those markets.
Each reportable segment has its own discrete senior management team responsible for the performance of the segment.
The accounting policies of the operating segments are the same as those described in the Annual Report and Accounts for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Excluding deferred taxation Operating profit in the Other category is generated from services related to the provision of workspace solutions, including fees from franchise agreements, offset by corporate overheads.
