Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Shareholder information Glencore plc is registered in Jersey, with headquarters inSwitzerland and operations around the world.
Enquiries Headquarters Corporate Services Baarermattstrasse 3 Glencore plc P. O.
Box 777 Switzerland CH-6341 Baar Registered Office Switzerland Queensway House Tel.
com Jersey JE1 1ES The Company has a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange LSE and a secondary listing on the JohannesburgStock Exchange JSE.
Share registrars Jersey for London listing Computershare Investor Services Jersey Limited Queensway House Hilgrove Street St Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES Channel Islands Tel.
: 44 0 870 707 4040 Johannesburg Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd 70 Marshall Street Johannesburg 2001 South Africa Tel.
: 27 0 11 370 5000 Glencore Annual Report 2017 219 Important notice regarding compilation of report Important notice concerning this document including forward or regulatory obligations including under the UK Listing Rules looking statements andthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Rules Governing the Listing of This document contains statements that are, or may be deemed Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited and to be, forward-looking statements which are prospective in the Listing Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange nature.
These forward-looking statements may be identified Limited, Glencore is not under any obligation and Glencore by the use of forward-looking terminology, or the negative and its affiliates expressly disclaim any intention, obligation thereof such as outlook, plans, expects or does not expect, or undertaking to update or revise any forward looking is expected, continues, assumes, is subject to, budget, statements, whether as a result of new information, future events scheduled, estimates, aims, forecasts, risks, intends, or otherwise.
This document shall not, under any circumstances, positioned, predicts, anticipates or does not anticipate, or create any implication that there has been no change in the believes, or variations of such words or comparable terminology business or affairs of Glencore since the date of this document and phrases or statements that certain actions, events or results orthat the information contained herein is correct as at any time may, could, should, shall, would, might or will be taken, subsequent to its date.
Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent risks and uncertainties surrounding No statement in this document is intended as a profit forecast future expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not ora profit estimate and no statement in this document should basedon historical facts, but rather on current predictions, be interpreted to mean that earnings per Glencore share for the expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, intentions current or future financial years would necessarily match or and projections about future events, results of operations, exceed the historical published earnings per Glencore share.
prospects, financial condition and discussions of strategy.
This document does not constitute or form part of any offer By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation of any offer to and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are purchase or subscribe for any securities.
The making of this beyond Glencores control.
Forward looking statements are document does not constitute a recommendation regarding not guarantees of future performance and may and often anysecurities.
do differ materially from actual results.
Important factors that The companies in which Glencore plc directly and indirectly could cause these uncertainties include, but are not limited to, hasan interest are separate and distinct legal entities.
In this those discussed in the Principal Risk and Uncertainties section document, Glencore, Glencore group and Group are used on page 42. for convenience only where references are made to Glencore plc Neither Glencore nor any of its associates or directors, officers and its subsidiaries in general.
These collective expressions are oradvisers, provides any representation, assurance or guarantee used for ease of reference only and do not imply any other that the occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any relationship between the companies.
Likewise, the words forward-looking statements in this document will actually we, us and our are also used to refer collectively to members occur.
You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these of the Group or to those who work for them.
These expressions forward-looking statements which only speak as of the date are also used where no useful purpose is served by identifying ofthis document.
Other than in accordance with its legal the particular company or companies.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 220 This report is printed on UPM Fine SC which is FSC certified, as well as having ISO14001 EMS, EMAS and the European EcoLabel.
Printed in the UK by Pureprint who are a CarbonNeutral company.
Both manufacturing mill and the printer are registered to the Environmental Management System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council FSC chain-of-custody certified.
If you have finished with this document and no longer wish toretain it, please pass it on to other interested readers ordispose of it in your recycled paper waste.
Designed and produced by Glencore plc Baarermattstrasse 3 CH-6340 Baar Switzerland Tel: 41 41 709 2000 Fax: 41 41 709 3000 E-mail: info@glencore.
