Business model As a global producer and marketer of commodities, we are uniquely diversified by geography, products and activities.
Integrating our marketing and industrial business sets us apart from our competitors and helps us generate value Safety Inputs and Our business activities The safety of our people is our top priority.
resources on are driven to achieve We aim to eliminate fatalities and provide a safe workplace.
which our business our strategic imperatives model depends and our commitment to Health We want to protect and improve developing a sustainable the health of our workforce and Assets and natural resources business local communities.
Our resources and reserves are overall long-life and of a high quality, enhancing the scale and value of our marketing business We are a disciplined Processing and refining Blending and optimisation producer, aligning supply Our expertise and technological Our ability to blend and optimise allows to demand and margin advancement in processing and refining us to offer a wide range of product over volume mean we can optimise our end specifications, resulting in a superior products to suit a wider customer base service and an ability to meet our Our people and partners and provide a security of supply as well customer specific requirements.
We have established as valuable market knowledge.
long-term relationships with a broad range of suppliers and customers across diverse industries and geographies 146,000 employees and contractors spread across 90 offices and 6 continents Financial discipline 3 business segments, We deploy capital in a disciplined manner, spanning the metals, creating value for all energy and agricultural our stakeholders markets, producing Our hedging strategies 90 commodities protect us against price risks and ensure that our from 150 sites marketing profitability is primarily determined by volume-driven activities and valueadded services rather than absolute price Unique market knowledge As an integrated commodity producer and marketer, we are uniquely Extraction and production Exploration, acquisition positioned to generate We mine and beneficiate minerals and development value at every stage of across a range of commodities, mining the commodity chain Our focus on brownfield sites and techniques and countries, for processing exploration close to existing assets or refining at our own facilities, or lowers our risk profile and lets us forsale.
use existing infrastructure, realise synergies and control costs.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 16 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Outputs Environment Community & human rights We aim to minimise any negative We foster sustainable growth and respect Protecting our people environmental impact from our human rights wherever we operate.
activities and promote efficient use of Our strategy for a sustainable future resources, such as energy and water.
24% Page 20 reduction in total recordable injury Anti-bribery and corruption frequency rate Offering, paying, soliciting or accepting Sustainability framework bribes is unacceptable.
We work to Page 25 identify and reduce the risks of bribery Income taxes paid to host countries and corruption across all our business.
Principal risks and uncertainties Page 42 $1.4bn Minimising our impact on the environment 5% reduction in carbon emissions scopes 1 and 2 Time Geographic arbitrage arbitrage Our commodities in everyday products Logistics and delivery Product arbitrage Our logistics assets allow us to handle large Adjusted EBITDA volumes of commodities, both to fulfil our obligations and to take advantage of demand $14.8bn and supply imbalances.
These value added services make us a preferred counterparty for customers without such capabilities.
2017 distributions to shareholders $2.9bn paid in 2018, basis 2017 cash flows Glencore Annual Report 2017 17 Business model continued Metals and Energy Agriculture minerals Strength through combination Our scale and presence both as a 1 4.0mt 1,200 producer and marketer of commodities Copper metal and Vessels on the ocean is unrivalled concentrates marketed at any one time We are present at every point of the value 1 chain, from where commodities are 2.8mt 7,000 sourced to where they are consumed Zinc metal and Long-term relationships concentrates marketed with suppliers and Global scale customers Long-term relationships 2.1bn bbl Unique insights Crude oil and oil Differentiated opportunities products marketed 1 Estimated metal unit contained.
Glencore Blending Extraction Processing Logistics Exploration optimisation production refining marketing Traditional miner Marketer Glencore Annual Report 2017 18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Our marketing business We move commodities from where they are plentiful to where they are needed Market insight Anticipating supply Creating opportunities Generating revenue and customer and demand The significant scale of We generate revenues understanding Our integrated marketing both our own production as a fee-like income Our global scale and and industrial businesses and the volumes secured from physical asset presence in more than work side-by-side to give from third parties allows handling and arbitrage, 90commodities across us presence across the us to create margin as well as blending and 50countries gives entire supply chain, opportunities from our optimisation opportunities.
usextensive market delivering in-depth ability to supply the exact Our use ofhedging knowledge and knowledge of physical commodities the market instruments results in insight tohelp us fully market supply and needs through processing profitability beinglargely understand the needs demand dynamics and and or blending and determined by these of our customers.
an ability to rapidly adjust optimisation of qualities.
activities rather than by to market conditions.
Arbitrage Geographic Product Time opportunities arbitrage arbitrage arbitrage Many of the physical Disparity Disparity Disparity commodity markets in Different prices for the Pricing differences between Different prices for a which we operate are same product in different blends, grades or types of commodity depending fragmented or periodically geographic regions, taking commodity, taking into on whether delivery volatile.
This can result in into account transportation account processing and is immediate or at a future arbitrage: price discrepancies and transaction costs.
date, taking into account between the prices for storage and financing costs.
Execution Execution the same commodities Leverage global relationships Ensure optionality with Execution in differentgeographic and production, processing commodity supply contracts, Book carry trades that locations or timeperiods.
and logistical capabilities andlook to lock-in profitable benefit from competitive Other factors with arbitrage tosource product in one price differentials through sources of storage, opportunities include freight location and deliver blending, processing or insurance and financing.
Strategy and risk A supportive strategy How we manage risk Our strategy for a sustainable future Our Marketing Business supports the We mitigate credit risks through Page 20 creation of incremental value from application of measures including a pool of allocated capital through credit insurance, letters of credit, Principal risks and uncertainties critical mass, blending, storage security arrangements and bank Page 42 and arbitrage opportunities.
Our presence at every stage of the We manage market exposure by value chain allows us to leverage reducing price risks arising from timing our scale and diversity.
differences to acceptably low levels.
Our policies procedures seek to ensure we comply with applicable sanctions, laws and regulations.
