01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 103.
Group Structure JLIF has invested in its current Portfolio and will continue to invest in further infrastructure investments indirectly via a series of holding entities, as follows: The Company invests in equity and profit participation instruments of JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. Luxco 1, a socit responsabilit limite S.. r. l. established in Luxembourg, which in turn invests in equity and debt of a similar entity, JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. Luxco 2.
Both Luxco 1 and Luxco 2 together the Luxcos are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company direct and indirect respectively, with Luxco 2 being wholly owned by Luxco 1.
Luxco 2 is the sole limited partner in the Partnership, an English limited partnership which has a special purpose vehicle as its general partner, JLIF GP Limited the General Partner.
The General Partner is a wholly owned subsidiary of Luxco 1.
The General Partner, on behalf of the Partnership, has appointed JLCM as Operator of the Partnership.
Luxco 2 primarily invests the contributions it receives from Luxco 1 in capital contributions and partner loans to the Partnership, which acquires and holds infrastructure investments directly or indirectly through intermediate wholly owned companies and or other entities.
The Companys infrastructure investments are registered in the name of the General Partner, the Partnership, subsidiaries of the Partnership or their respective nominees.
Estera International Fund Managers Guernsey Limited is the Administrator and Company Secretary to JLIF Limited.
Investors Investment Advisory John Laing JLIF Limited Listed Company Guernsey Agreement Capital Management Ltd JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l. JLIF Limited Partnership JLIF GP Ltd Asset Portfolio Direct Holdings Via Holding Companies Abbotsford Hospital, Canada Greater Manchester Police Stations Barnet Street Lighting Avon and Somerset Courts Forth Valley Royal Hospital Northampton Mental Health Bentilee Hub Community Centre MoD Main Building Bexley Schools E18 Road, Finland LUL Connect CityLink Realise Health LIFT, Colchester Glasgow Schools Kingston Hospital Bristol BSF Highland Schools, Eneld M6 M74 motorway, Scotland Redcar & Cleveland Street Lighting Kromhout Barracks, Netherlands North East Fire and Rescue Authority Eneld Street Lighting Manchester Street Lighting Brockley Social Housing Lambeth Street Lighting QEH, Greenwich Newcastle Hospital Kelowna & Vernon Hospitals South Lanarkshire Schools Canning Town Social Housing Leeds Combined Secondary Schools Sirhowy Way, Wales North Swindon Schools North Staffordshire Hospital Vancouver General Hospital M40 Motorway Peterborough Schools Wakeeld Street Lighting Eneld Schools North Birmingham Mental Health Unit Walsall Street Lighting Camden Social Housing Barcelona Metro Stations L9T2 Newham Schools British Transport Police PPP Cleveland Police Station Oldham Social Housing Edinburgh Schools A55 Holyhead to Llandegai DBFO Intertrust Luxembourg S.. r. l formerly ATC Corporate Tunbridge Wells Hospital Barcelona Metro Stations L9T4 Met.
Specialist Police Training Centre Intercity Express Programme Phase 1 Services Luxembourg S. A is the Administrator and Islington I Social Housing Connecticut Service Stations Company Secretary to the Luxembourg entities.
Islington II Social Housing Barcelona Line 9 Section IV Metro Stations Groningen Tax Ofce Barcelona Line 9 Section II Metro Stations Kirklees Social Housing Croydon & Lewisham Street Lighting  LLP, in Luxembourg, is supplying South East London Police Stations Aylesbury Vale Parkway the accounting and tax functions to those companies.
Surrey Street Lighting Coleshill Parkway Peterborough Hospital  DLR Miles Platting Social Housing JLIF Limited Partnership has an Operator Agreement with JLCM to provide all necessary management functions.
