Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements 1.
Description of Operations The Company determines whether to consolidate subsidiaries Shire plc and its subsidiaries collectively referred to as either based on either the variable interest entity VIE model or the voting Shire or the Company is the leading global biotechnology interest model.
The Company consolidates a VIE if it is determined company focused on serving people with rare diseases.
that the Company is the primary beneficiary of the VIE.
In determining whether the Company is the primary beneficiary of an Some of the Companys marketed products include entity, management applies a qualitative approach that determines GAMMAGARD, HYQVIA and CINRYZE for Immunology, ADVATE whether the Company has both 1 the power to direct the ADYNOVATE, VONVENDI and FEIBA for Hematology, VYVANSE economically significant activities of the entity and 2 the obligation and ADDERALL XR for Neuroscience, LIALDA MEZAVANT and to absorb losses of, or the right to receive benefits from, the entity PENTASA for Internal Medicine, ELAPRASE and REPLAGAL for that could potentially be significant to that entity.
The Company Genetic Diseases, ONCASPAR and ONYVIDE for Oncology and consolidates entities that are not VIEs if it is determined that the XIIDRA for Ophthalmics.
Company holds a majority voting interest in the entity.
The Company has grown both organically and through acquisition, Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains completing a series of major transactions that have brought control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses therapeutic, geographic and pipeline growth and diversification.
Intercompany balances and transactions The Company will continue to conduct its own research and are eliminated in consolidation.
development R&D focused on rare diseases, as well as evaluate companies, products and pipeline opportunities that offer a Revenue recognition strategic fit and have the potential to deliver value to all of the The Company recognizes revenue when all of the following criteria Companys stakeholders: patients, physicians, policy makers, are met: payers, partners, investors and employees.
there is persuasive evidence an arrangement exists: 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies delivery has occurred or services have been rendered: Basis of Presentation the price to the customer is fixed or determinable: and The accompanying consolidated financial statements include collectibility is reasonably assured.
theaccounts of Shire plc, all of its subsidiaries and the Income Where applicable, all revenues are stated net of value added Access Share trust, after elimination of inter-company accounts andsimilar taxes and trade discounts.
The Companys principal and transactions.
They have been prepared in accordance with revenue streams and their respective accounting treatments are generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of discussed below: America U. S. GAAP and U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission SEC regulations for annual reporting.
Product sales Revenues from Product sales are recognized when title and risk of On June 3, 2016, the Company completed its acquisition of loss have passed to the customer, which is typically upon delivery.
Baxalta for $32.4 billion, representing the fair value of purchase Product sales are recorded net of applicable reserves for discounts consideration.
The Companys consolidated financial statements and allowances.
include the results of Baxalta from the date of acquisition.
For further details regarding the acquisition, refer to Note 4, Business Reserves for Discounts and Allowances Combinations, to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company establishes reserves for trade discounts, chargebacks, distribution service fees, Medicaid rebates, Use of Estimates in Consolidated Financial Statements managedcare rebates, incentive rebates, product returns and The preparation of Financial Statements, in conformity with U. S. other governmental rebates or applicable allowances.
These GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make reserves are based on estimates of the amounts earned or to be estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported claimed on the related sales.
Managements estimates take into and disclosed amounts of assets, liabilities and equity at the date consideration historical experience, current contractual and of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts statutory requirements, specific known market events and trends, ofrevenues and expenses during the period.
On an on-going industry data and forecasted customer buying and payment basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, judgments and patterns.
Actual amounts may ultimately differ from estimates.
Estimates are based on historical experience, Ifactual results vary, management adjusts these estimates, which current conditions and on various other assumptions that are have an effect on earnings in the period of adjustment.
reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, Trade discounts are generally credits granted to wholesalers, liabilities and equity and the amounts of revenues and expenses.
specialty pharmacies and other customers for remitting Actual results may differ from these estimates under different payment on their purchases within established incentive assumptions or conditions.
periodsand are classified as a reduction of accounts receivable.
Consolidation Chargebacks are credits or payments issued to wholesalers The consolidated financial statements reflect the financial anddistributors who provide products to qualified healthcare statements of the Company and those of the Companys whollyproviders at prices lower than the list prices charged to the owned subsidiaries.
For consolidated entities where the Company wholesaler or distributor.
Reserves are estimated based on owns or is exposed to less than 100% of the economics, the expected purchases by those qualified healthcare providers.
Company records net income loss attributable to non-controlling Chargeback reserves are classified as a reduction of accounts interests in its Consolidated Statements of Operations equal to the receivable.
percentage of the economic or ownership interest retained in such entities by the respective non-controlling parties.
Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.
128 Shire Annual Report 2017 Distribution service fees are credits or payments issued to Other revenue includes revenues derived from product outwholesalers, distributors and specialty pharmacies for licensing arrangements, which may consist of an initial up-front compliance with various  inventory payment on inception of the license and subsequent milestone management practices or services provided to support patient payments upon achievement of certain clinical and sales access to a product.
These fees are generally based on a milestones.
To the extent the license requires Shire to provide percentage of gross purchases but can also be based on services to the licensee: up-front payments are deferred and additional services these entities provide.
Most of these costs recognized over the service period.
are reflected as a reduction of gross sales: however, to the Business combinations extent benefit from services can be separately identified and Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition thefair value determined, costs are classified in Selling, general method of accounting.
Under the acquisition method, assets and administrative expense.
Reserves are classified within acquired, including in-process research and development IPR&D accrued expenses.
projects, and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective Medicaid rebates are payments to States under statutory fair values as of the acquisition date in the consolidated financial andvoluntary reimbursement arrangements.
The excess of the fair value of consideration theserebates are generally based on an estimate of expected transferred over the fair value of the net assets acquired is product usage by Medicaid patients and expected rebate rates.
Contingent consideration obligations Statutory rates are generally based on a percentage of incurred in connection with a business combination including sellingprice adjusted upwards for price increases in excess theassumption of an acquirees liability arising from a business ofpublished inflation indices.
As a result, rebates generally combination it completed prior to the acquisition are recorded increase as a percentage of the selling price over the life of attheir fair values on the acquisition date and remeasured at their theproduct as prices increase.
Medicaid rebate reserves are fair values each subsequent reporting period until the related classified within accrued expenses.
The resulting changes in fair values arerecorded in earnings.
Managed care rebates are payments to third parties, primarily pharmacy benefit managers and other health insurance Goodwill providers.
The reserve for these rebates is based on an estimate Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of customer buying patterns and applicable contractual rebate and the fair value of the identifiable tangible and intangible net rates to be earned over each period.
Reserves are classified assets acquired in a business combination.
Goodwill is not within accrued expenses.
amortized, but instead is reviewed for impairment.
Goodwill is reviewed annually, as of October 1, and whenever events or Incentive rebates are generally credits or payments issued to changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of specialty pharmacies, distributors or Group Purchasing goodwill may not be recoverable.
Events or changes in Organizations for qualified purchases of certain products.
circumstances which could trigger an impairment review include Reserves are estimated based on the terms of each individual but are not limited to: unexpected adverse business conditions, contract and purchase volumes and are classified within economic factors, unanticipated technological changes or accrued expenses.
competitive activities and acts by governments and courts.
Return credits are issued to customers for return of product For the purpose of assessing the carrying value of goodwill for damaged in shipment and, for certain products, return due to impairment, goodwill is allocated at the Companys reporting unit lotexpiry.
The majority of returns are due to expiry, and reserves level.
As described in Note 23, Segment Reporting, the Company are estimated based on historical returns experience.
The operates in one operating segment which it considers to be its only returns reserve is classified within accrued expenses.
Other discounts and allowances include Medicare rebates, The Company reviews goodwill for impairment by firstly assessing coupon and patient co-pay assistance.
Medicare rebates are qualitative factors, including comparing the market capitalization payments to certain health insurance providers of Medicare Part ofthe Company to the carrying value of its assets, to determine D coverage to qualified patients.
Reserve estimates are based whether events or circumstances exist which indicate that it is on customer buying patterns and applicable contractual rebate more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than rates to be earned over each period.
Coupon and co-pay its carrying amount.
If, after assessing these qualitative factors, it is assistance programs provide discounts to qualified patients.
deemed more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is Reserve estimates are based on expected claim volumes under less than its carrying value, a two step quantitative assessment is these programs and estimated cost per claim that the Company performed by comparing the carrying value of the reporting units expects to pay.
Reserves for Medicare and coupon and patient net assets including allocated goodwill to the fair value of the co-pay programs are classified within accrued expenses.
Royalties and Other Revenue If the carrying value of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit Royalty income relating to licensed technology is recognized when exceeds the fair value of its reporting unit, then it determines the the licensee sells the underlying product, with the amount of royalty implied fair value of its reporting units goodwill.
If the carrying value income recorded based on sales information received from the of the reporting units goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then relevant licensee.
The Company estimates sales amounts and an impairment loss equal to the difference is recorded.
related royalty income based on the historical product information for any period that the sales information is not available from the relevant licensee.
Shire Annual Report 2017 129 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued IPR&D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until completion Intangible Assets of the associated R&D efforts.
If and when development is Intangible assets primarily relate to commercially marketed products complete, which generally occurs when regulatory approval to and IPR&D projects.
Intangible assets are recorded at fair value at market a product is obtained, the associated assets would be the time of their acquisition and are stated in the Consolidated deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based on their Balance Sheets, net of accumulated amortization and impairments, respective estimated useful lives at that point in time.
assets related to IPR&D projects are reviewed for impairment at least annually, as of October 1st, until commercialization, after Intangible assets related to commercially marketed products are which time the IPR&D is amortized over itsestimated useful life.
amortized over their estimated useful lives.
Remaining useful lives range from 1 year to 24 years weighted average 19 years and the The Company evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets, Company amortizes its intangibles on an economic consumption except for goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, whenever method, or a straight-line basis when straight-line method events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying approximates economic consumption method.
amounts of the relevant assets may not be recoverable.
Whensuch a determination is made, managements estimate of undiscounted Milestone payments made to third parties on and subsequent cash flows to be generated by the use and ultimate disposition of toregulatory approval are capitalized as intangible assets, and these assets is compared to the carrying value of theassets to amortized over the remaining useful life of the related product.
determine whether the carrying value is recoverable.
If the carrying The following factors, where applicable, are considered in value is deemed not to be recoverable, the amount of the estimating the useful lives of intangible assets: impairment recognized in the consolidated financial statements is determined by estimating the fair value of the relevant assets and expected use of the asset: recording an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying regulatory, legal or contractual provisions, including the value exceeds the estimated fair value.
regulatory approval and review process, patent issues and actions by government agencies: The Company calculates the fair value using significant estimates the effects of obsolescence, changes in demand, competing and assumptions including but not limited to: revenues and products and other economic factors, including the stability operating profits related to the products, existing competitive ofthe market, known technological advances, development activities and acts by governments and courts.
Changes in these ofcompeting drugs that are more effective clinically or estimates and assumptions could materially affect the economically: determination of fair value.
Should the fair value of long-lived actions of competitors, suppliers, regulatory agencies or assetsdecline, charges for impairment may be necessary.
othersthat may eliminate current competitive advantages: and Fair Value Measurements historical experience of renewing or extending similar The Company has certain financial assets and liabilities recorded arrangements.
at fair value which have been classified as Level 1, 2 or 3 within the Acquired IPR&D represents the fair value assigned to research and fair value hierarchy as described in the accounting standards for development assets that have not reached technological feasibility.
fair value measurements: The value assigned to acquired IPR&D is determined by estimating Level 1 Fair values are determined utilizing quoted prices the costs to develop the acquired technology into commercially unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities viable products, estimating the resulting revenue from the projects, that we have the ability to access: and discounting the net cash flows to present value.
The revenue Level 2 Fair values are determined by utilizing quoted prices and costs projections used to value acquired IPR&D are, as for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or other market applicable, reduced based on the probability of success of observable inputs such as interest rates, yield curves and developing a new drug.
Additionally, the projections consider foreign currency spot rates: and therelevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends Level 3 Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both intechnology, and the nature and expected timing of new product significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.
introductions by the Company and its competitors.
The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value are The majority of the Companys financial assets have been commensurate with the stage of development of the projects and classified as Level 1 and 2.
The Companys financial assets, which uncertainties in the economic estimates used in the projections.
include cash equivalents, derivative contracts, marketable equity and debt securities, and plan assets for deferred compensation, Upon the acquisition of IPR&D, the Company completes an have been initially valued at the transaction price and subsequently assessment of whether the acquisition constitutes the purchase valued, at the end of each reporting period, utilizing third-party ofasingle asset or a group of assets.
The Company considers pricing services or other market observable data.
The Company multiple factors in this assessment, including the nature of the utilizes industry standard valuation models, including both income technology acquired, the presence or absence of separate cash and market-based approaches and observable market inputs to flows, the development process and stage of completion, quantitative determine value.
These observable market inputs include significance and its rationale for entering into the transaction.
reportable trades, benchmark yields, credit spreads, broker dealer If the Company acquires a business as defined under applicable quotes, bids, offers, current spot rates and other industry and accounting standards, then the acquired IPR&D is capitalized as economic events.
If the Company acquires an asset or group ofassets that do not meet the definition of a business, then the acquired IPR&D is expensed on its acquisition date.
Future costs todevelop these assets are recorded to research and development expense as they are incurred.
130 Shire Annual Report 2017 Accounts receivable assumptions about future demand and market conditions.
The Companys accounts receivable arise from Product sales Amounts written down due to obsolescence and unmarketable andrepresent amounts due from its customers.
The Company inventory are charged to Cost of sales.
monitors the financial performance and credit worthiness of its Property, plant and equipment large customers so that it can assess and respond to changes Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, net of intheir credit profile.
The Company provides reserves against accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Property, plant accounts receivable for estimated losses, if any, that may result and equipment are subject to review for impairment whenever from a customers inability to pay.
Amounts determined to be events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying uncollectible are written-off against the reserve.
amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
The cost of normal, Investments recurring, or periodic repairs and maintenance activities related to The Company has certain investments in pharmaceutical and property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred.
The cost biotechnology companies whose securities are not publicly traded for planned major maintenance activities, including the related and where fair value is not readily available.
These investments are acquisition or construction of assets, is capitalized if the repair recorded using either the cost method or the equity method of willresult in future economic benefits.
accounting, depending on its ownership percentage and other Interest costs incurred during the construction of major capital factors that suggest the Company has significant influence.
projects are capitalized until the underlying asset is ready for its Underthe equity method of accounting, the Company records intended use, at which point the interest costs are amortized as itsinvestments in equity-method investees in the consolidated depreciation expense over the useful life of the underlying asset.
balance sheet under Investments and its share of the investees The Company also capitalizes certain direct and incremental costs earnings or losses together with other-thantemporary associated with the validation effort required for licensing by impairments in value under Equity in earnings losses of equity regulatory agencies of new manufacturing equipment for the method investees, net of taxes in the Consolidated Statements of production of a commercially approved drug.
The Company monitors these investments to evaluate include direct labor and material and are incurred in preparing the whether any decline in their value has occurred that would be equipment for its intended use.
The validation costs are amortized other-than-temporary, based on the implied value of recent over the useful life of the related equipment.
company financings, public market prices of comparable companies, and general market conditions.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives as follows: All other equity investments, which consist of investments for which the Company does not have the ability to exercise significant Asset category Estimated useful lives influence, are accounted for under the cost method or at fair value.
Land Not depreciated Investments in private companies are carried at cost, less Buildings and leasehold improvements 15 to 50 years provisions for other-than-temporary impairment in value.
For investments in equity investments that have readily determinable Office furniture, fittings and equipment 3 to 10 years fair values, the Company classifies its equity investments as Machinery, equipment and other 3 to 15 years available-for-sale and, accordingly, records these investments at their fair values with unrealized holding gains and losses included At the time property, plant and equipment is retired or otherwise in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, net of disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are eliminated any related tax effect.
Realized gains and losses, and declines in from the asset and accumulated depreciation accounts.
The profit value of available-for-sale securities judged to be other-thanor loss on such disposition is reflected in operating income.
temporary, are included in Other income expense, net in the Assets Held for Sale Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The cost of securities sold The Company classifies long-lived assets or disposal groups to is based on the specific identification method.
Interest on securities besold as held for sale in the period in which all of the following classified as available-for-sale is included as Interest income in the criteria are met: Consolidated Statements of Operations.
management, having the authority to approve the action, Inventories commits to a plan to sell the asset or disposal group: Inventories are stated at the lower of cost, computed using the the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in first-in, first-out method, and net realizable value.
The inventory itspresent condition: costs are classified as long term when the Company expects an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required toutilize the inventory beyond the normal operating cycle and to complete the plan to sell the asset or disposal group have includes these costs in Other non-current assets in the been initiated: Consolidated Balance Sheets.
the sale of the asset or disposal group is probable, and transfer Capitalization of Inventory Costs of the asset or disposal group is expected to qualify for The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events itsproducts prior to regulatory approval, when, based on or circumstances beyond our control extend the period of time managements judgment, future commercialization is considered required to sell the asset or disposal group beyond one year: highly probable and the future economic benefit is expected to the asset or disposal group is being actively marketed for sale at berealized.
a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value: and actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely Obsolescence and Unmarketable Inventory that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan Inventories are written down for estimated obsolescence or will be withdrawn.
unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the costofinventory and estimated net realizable value based upon Shire Annual Report 2017 131 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued primarily relate to forecasted third-party sales denominated in The Company initially measures a long-lived asset or disposal foreign currencies and forecasted intercompany sales group that is classified as held for sale at the lower of its carrying denominated in foreign currencies, respectively.
value or fair value less any costs to sell.
Any loss resulting from this In its application of hedge accounting, the Company assesses, measurement is recognized in the period in which the held-for-sale both at inception and on a prospective basis, whether the criteria are met.
derivatives that are used in hedging transactions are highly The Company assesses the fair value of a long-lived asset or effective in offsetting the changes in cash flows or fair values disposal group less any costs to sell each reporting period it ofthehedged items.
The Company also assesses hedge remains classified as held for sale and reports any subsequent effectiveness on a retrospective basis every quarter with any changes as an adjustment to the carrying value of the asset or hedge ineffectiveness recorded to the Consolidated Statements disposal group, as long as the new carrying value does not exceed ofOperations.
the carrying value of the asset at the time it was initially classified The Company uses forward contracts to mitigate the effects of as held for sale.
changes in foreign exchange relating to certain of the Companys Upon determining that a long-lived asset or disposal group intercompany and third-party receivables and payables.
These meetsthe criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company derivative instruments generally are not formally designated as ceases depreciation.
hedges and the terms of these instruments generally do not exceed three months.
The fair values of these instruments are Discontinued operations included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets in Current assets or Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were Current liabilities, with changes in the fair value recognized in the disposed of during the period or which were classified as held for Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The cash flows relating sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major line tothese instruments are presented within Net cash provided by ofbusiness or geographical area that can be clearly distinguished operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, for operational and financial reporting purposes.
unless the derivative instruments are economically hedging specific Contingent consideration payable investing or financing activities.
Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones and Translation of foreign currency royalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with The functional currency for most of the foreign subsidiaries is their various business combinations.
The amounts ultimately payable by local currency.
S. subsidiaries that transact in a the Company are dependent upon the successful achievement of functional currency other than the U. S. dollar, assets and liabilities the underlying scientific or commercial event and future net sales are translated at current rates of exchange at the balance sheet of the relevant products over applicable term.
Income and expense items are translated at the average records an obligation for such contingent payments at fair value on foreign exchange rates for the period.
Adjustments resulting from the acquisition date.
The Company assesses the probability, and the translation of the financial statements of the foreign operations estimated timing, of these milestones being achieved and the into U. S. dollars are excluded from the determination of Net income present value of forecast future net sales of the relevant products and are recorded in AOCI, a separate component of equity.
For and re-measures the related contingent consideration to fair value subsidiaries where the functional currency of the assets and each balance sheet date.
The amount of contingent consideration liabilities differ from the local currency, non-monetary assets and which may ultimately be payable by Shire in relation to future liabilities are translated at the rate of exchange in effect on the date royalties is dependent upon future net sales of the relevant assets were acquired while monetary assets and liabilities are products over the life of the royalty term.
translated at current rates of exchange as of the balance sheet The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable, date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average which is considered as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy, foreign currency rates for the period.
Translation adjustments of couldsignificantly increase or decrease due to changes in these subsidiaries are included in Other income expense, net.
certainassumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
Foreign currency exchange transaction losses gains included Eachset of assumptions and milestones is specific to the individual inConsolidated Statements of Operations in the years ended contingent consideration payable.
The assumptions include, December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 amounted to $ 97.3 million, among other things, the probability of, and period in which, the $17.7 million and $ 26.5 million, respectively.
relevant milestone event is expected to be achieved: the amount ofroyalties that will be payable based on forecast net sales of Cost of sales therelevant products: and the discount rates to be applied in Cost of sales includes the cost of purchasing finished product calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
forsale, the cost of raw materials and costs of manufacturing The Company regularly reviews these assumptions, and makes thoseproducts including shipping and handling costs, depreciation adjustments to the fair value measurements as required by facts andamortization of intangible assets in respect of favorable and circumstances.
Royalties payable to third party intellectual property owners related to the sold products Derivative financial instruments arealsoincluded in Cost of sales.
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange risk to earnings relating to forecasted transactions and recognized assets and liabilities.
For each derivative instrument that is designated and effective as a cash flow hedge, the gain or loss on the derivative is recorded in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income AOCI and then recognized in earnings consistent with the underlying hedged item.
Cash flow hedges are classified in revenues and cost of sales and 132 Shire Annual Report 2017 Research and development R&D expense Finance costs of debt Research and development expenses consist of compensation Financing costs relating to debt issued are recorded against the and benefits, facilities and overhead expenses, clinical trial corresponding debt and amortized to the Consolidated Statements expenses and fees paid to contract research organizations CROs, of Operations over the period to the earliest redemption date of the clinical supply and manufacturing expenses and upfrontfees and debt, using the effective interest rate method.
On extinguishment milestones paid to collaborators.
R&D expense also includes the of the related debt, any unamortized deferred financing costs are impairment charges related to the IPR&D intangible assets.
written off and charged to Interest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Research and development expenses are expensed as incurred.
Payments that were made for research and development services Income taxes prior to the services being rendered are recorded as Prepaid The provision for income taxes includes Irish corporation tax, expenses and other current assets on the Consolidated Balance U. S. federal, state, local and other foreign taxes.
Income taxes Sheets and are expensed as the services are provided.
areaccounted for under the liability method.
Management also accrues the costs of ongoing clinical trials Uncertain tax positions are recognized in the consolidated financial associated with programs that have been terminated or statements for positions which are considered more likely than not discontinued for which there is no future economic benefit at the of being sustained, based on the technical merits of the position time the decision is made to terminate or discontinue the program.
onaudit by the tax authorities.
The measurement of the tax benefit Selling, general and administrative expenses recognized in the consolidated financial statements is based upon Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily the largest amount of tax benefit that, in managements judgment, comprised of compensation and benefits associated with sales and is greater than 50% likely of being realized based on a cumulative marketing, finance, human resources, legal, information technology probability assessment of the possible outcomes.
and other administrative personnel, outside marketing, advertising The Company recognizes interest and penalties relating to and legal expenses and other general and administrative costs.
Interest income on cash Advertising costs are expensed as incurred.
Advertising costs required to be deposited with the tax authorities is recognized amounted to $210.3 million, $216.0 million and $56.1 million for within Interest income.
theyears ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for differences Collaborative arrangements between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the The Company enters into collaborative arrangements to develop consolidated financial statements and the tax bases of assets and and commercialize drug candidates.
These collaborative liabilities that will result in future taxable or deductible amounts.
arrangements often require up-front, milestone, royalty or profit The deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the share payments, or a combination of these, with payments often enacted tax laws and rates applicable to the periods inwhich contingent upon the success of the related development and thedifferences are expected to affect taxable income.
Collaboration agreements entered into Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, by the Company may also include expense reimbursements or inthe opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some other such payments to the collaborating partner.
The Company portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
records payments received from the collaborative partners for their share of the development costs as a reduction of research and Earnings per share development expense.
Basic earnings per share is based upon net income attributable to the Company divided by the weighted average number of ordinary For collaborations with commercialized products, if the Company shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share is the principal, it records revenue and the corresponding operating isbased upon net income attributable to the Company divided costs in their respective line items in the Consolidated Statements bythe weighted average number of ordinary share equivalents of Operations.
If the Company is not the principal, it records outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of all operating costs as a reduction of revenue.
potential ordinary shares equivalents that were outstanding during Leased assets the year.
Such potentially dilutive shares are excluded when the The costs of operating leases are charged to operations on a effect would be to increase diluted earnings per share or reduce straight-line basis over the lease term, even if rental payments are the diluted loss per share.
Share-based compensation Assets acquired under capital leases are included in the The share-based compensation programs grant awards that Consolidated Balance Sheets as property, plant and equipment include stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs, stock and are depreciated over the shorter of the period of the lease or options, performance share awards PSAs, restricted stock units their useful lives.
The capital element of future lease payments is RSUs and performance share units PSUs.
The Company also recorded as a liability, while the interest element is charged to operates a Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and Sharesave operations over the period of the lease to produce a level yield Plans in the UK and Ireland.
onthe balance of the capital lease obligation.
Share-based compensation represents the cost of share-based awards granted to employees.
The Company measures sharebased compensation cost for awards classified as equity at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award.
Predominantly all of the Companys awards have service and or performance conditions and the fair values of these awards are estimated using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Shire Annual Report 2017 133 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued Share-Based Payment Accounting For share-based compensation awards which cliff vest, the In March 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update Company recognizes the cost of the relevant share-based ASU No.
2016-09, Compensation Stock Compensation payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis net of Topic718 : Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment estimated forfeitures over the employees requisite service period.
The new standard requires recognition of the income For those share-based compensation awards with a graded tax effects of vested or settled awards in the income statement vesting schedule, the Company recognizes the cost of the relevant and involves several other aspects of the accounting for shareshare-based payment award as an expense on a straight-line basis based payment transactions, including the income tax net of estimated forfeitures over the requisite service period for consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities the entire award that is, over the requisite service period for the and classification on the Statements of Cash Flows and allows a last separately vesting portion of the award.
The share-based one-time accounting policy election to account for forfeitures as compensation expense is recorded in Cost of product sales, R&D, they occur.
The new standard was effective January 1, 2017.
SG&A, Reorganization costs and Integration and Acquisition costs The Company adopted ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of 2017. in the Consolidated Statements of Operations based on the Before adoption, excess tax benefits or deficiencies from the employees respective functions.
Companys equity awards were recorded as Additional paid-in The Company records deferred tax assets for awards that result capital in its Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Upon adoption, the indeductions on the Companys income tax returns, based on the Company recorded any excess tax benefits or deficiencies from amount of compensation cost recognized and the Companys itsequity awards in its Consolidated Statements of Operations in statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a the reporting periods in which vesting or settlement occurs.
For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, Amendments related to accounting for excess tax benefits have differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial been adopted prospectively, resulting in recognition of excess tax reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the benefits against Income taxes rather than Additional paid-in capital Companys income tax returns were recorded in additional paid-in of $11.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. capital if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset or in theConsolidated Statements of Operations if the deferred tax asset As a result of the adoption, the Company recorded an adjustment exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists to Retained earnings of $39.0 million to recognize net operating from previous awards.
Following the adoption of new accounting loss carryforwards attributable to excess tax benefits on stock guidance effective January 1, 2017, for the year ended December compensation that had not been previously recognized to 31, 2017, differences between the deferred tax assets and the actual Additional paid-in capital.
tax deduction reported on the Companys income tax returns were Excess tax benefits for share-based payments are now included recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, including if inNet cash provided by operating activities rather than Net cash the tax deduction exceeds the deferred taxasset.
TheCompanys provided by financing activities.
The changes have been applied share-based compensation plans are described inmore detail in prospectively in accordance with the ASU and prior periods have Note 27, Share-based Compensation Plans.
New Accounting Pronouncements Upon adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company elected to account From time to time, new accounting pronouncements are issued for forfeitures in relation to service conditions as they occur.
The bythe Financial Accounting Standards Board FASB or other change was applied on a modified retrospective basis with a standard setting bodies that the Company adopts as of the cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earnings of $10.7 million specified effective date.
Unless otherwise discussed below, as of January 1, 2017. theCompany does not believe that the impact of recently issued standards that are not yet effective will have a material impact Definition of a Business onthe Companys financial position or results of operations In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
Combinations Topic 805 : Clarifying the Definition of a Business.
This new standard clarifies the definition of a business and Adopted during the current period provides guidance to determine when an integrated set of assets Inventory and activities is not a business.
The Company adopted this In July 2015, the FASB issued new guidance which requires an standard prospectively on January 1, 2017. entity to measure inventory at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
Net realizable value is defined as the estimated selling prices To be adopted in future periods in the ordinary course of business, less reasonably predictable Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment costs of completion, disposal and transportation.
The Company In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-04, Intangibles adopted this standard as of January 1, 2017, which did not impact Goodwill and Other Topic 350 : Simplifying the Test of Goodwill the Companys financial position or results of operations.
This new standard simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test.
Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill.
This standard will be effective for the Company as of January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted for annual goodwill impairment tests performed after January 1, 2017.
The Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its financial position and results of operations.
134 Shire Annual Report 2017 Revenue from Contracts with Customers Statement of Cash Flows In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No.
2014-09, Revenue In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-15, Statement fromContracts with Customers Topic 606, which supersedes ofCash Flows Topic 230 : Classification of Certain Cash Receipts allexisting revenue recognition requirements, including most and Cash Payments.
The new standard clarifies certain aspects industry-specific guidance.
The new standard requires a ofthe statement of cash flows, and aims to reduce diversity in companyto recognize revenue when it transfers goods or practice regarding how certain transactions are classified in the servicesto customers in an amount that reflects the consideration statement of cash flows.
This standard will be effective for the that the company expects to receive for those goods or services.
The newstandard also requires additional qualitative and Theadoption of this guidance will not have a material impact quantitative disclosures.
onthe Companys Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No.
2015-14, Revenue from In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, Statement of Contracts with Customers Topic 606 : Deferral of the Effective Cash Flows Topic 230 : Restricted Cash.
The new guidance is Date, which delayed the effective date of the new standard from intended to reduce diversity in the presentation of restricted cash January 1, 2017 to January 1, 2018. and restricted cash equivalents in the statement.
The guidance requires that restricted cash and restricted cash equivalents be The FASB has subsequently issued five additional ASUs amending included as components of total cash and cash equivalents as the guidance in Topic 606, each with the same effective date and presented on the statement of cash flows.
This standard will be transition date of January 1, 2018.
This amended guidance has been effective for the Company as of January 1, 2018.
The adoption of considered in the Companys overall assessment of Topic 606. this guidance will not have a material impact on the Companys Shire will adopt this standard on January 1, 2018, using the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.
The Company has Income Taxes identified two primary revenue streams from contracts with In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-16, Income customers as part of its assessment: 1 product sales and 2 Taxes Topic 740 : Intra-Entity Transfers Other than Inventory.
Thisstandard removes the current exception in U. S. GAAP The Company completed its assessment of implementing the prohibiting entities from recognizing current and deferred income newstandard.
The adoption of the new standard will not have a tax expenses or benefits related to transfer of assets, other than material impact to revenue recognition related to product revenue inventory, within the consolidated entity.
The current exception to orlicensing arrangements.
The impact of the adoption will be defer the recognition of any tax impact on the transfer of inventory recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment in the Consolidated within the consolidated entity until it is sold to a third party remains Statement of Changes in Equity upon adoption on January 1, unaffected.
The Company will adopt the standard effective January 2018.
Financial Instrument Accounting 1, 2018 using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulativeIn January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-01, Financial effect adjustment to opening retained earnings in the first quarter Instruments Overall Subtopic 825-10 : Recognition and of 2018.
The adoption of this guidance will not have a material Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.
impact on its financial position and results of operations.
Thenewstandard amends certain aspects of accounting and Retirement Benefits Income Statement Presentation disclosure requirements of financial instruments, including the In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, Compensation requirement that equity investments with readily determinable Retirement Benefits Topic 715 : Improving the Presentation of Net fairvalues be measured at fair value with changes in fair value Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit recognized in the results of operations.
This standard will be Cost.
The standard amends the income statement presentation effective for the Company as of January 1, 2018.
The adoption ofthe components of net periodic benefit cost for defined benefit ofthis guidance will not have a material impact on its financial pension and other postretirement plans.
The standard requires position and results of operations.
entities to 1 disaggregate the current-service-cost component Leases from the other components of net benefit cost the other In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No.
2016-02, Leases components and present it with other current compensation Topic 842.
The new accounting guidance will require the costs for related employees in the income statement and 2 recognition of all long-term lease assets and lease liabilities by present the other components elsewhere in the income statement lessees andsets forth new disclosure requirements for those lease and outside of income from operations if such a subtotal is assets and liabilities.
The standard requires lessees to recognize presented.
The standard also requires entities to disclose the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet using income statement lines that contain the other components if they a modified retrospective approach at the beginning of the earliest are not presented on appropriately described separate lines.
comparative period in the financial statements.
This standard will Thisstandard will be effective for the Company as of January 1, be effective for the Company as of January 1, 2019.
The adoption of this guidance will not have a material impact is permitted.
The Company is currently evaluating the potential on its financial position and results of operations.
impact on its financial position and results of operations of Share-Based Payment Accounting adopting this guidance.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-09, Compensation Stock Compensation Topic 718 : Scope Modification Accounting.
The new standard clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications.
This standard will be effective for the Company as ofJanuary 1, 2018.
Theadoption of thisguidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations.
Shire Annual Report 2017 135 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2.
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies continued The Company believes the fair values used to record intangible Derivatives and Hedging assets acquired in connection with a business combination are In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No.
2017-12, Derivatives based upon reasonable estimates and assumptions given the facts andHedging Topic 815 : Targeted Improvements to Accounting and circumstances as of the acquisition date.
The standard amends its hedge accounting Impairment and Amortization of Long-lived Assets, model to enable entities to better portray the economics of their includingintangible assets risk management activities in the financial statements.
The new Long-lived assets to be held and used include intangible assets guidance also expands an entitys ability to hedge non-financial and PP&E.
PP&E and Intangible assets related to the Companys and financial risk components and reduces complexity in fair commercially marketed products are reviewed for impairment valuehedges of interest rate risk.
Additionally, it eliminates the whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the requirement to separately measure and report hedge carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable.
ineffectiveness, eases certain assessment requirements and Management reviews intangible assets related to IPR&D product modifies the accounting for components excluded from the rights for impairment annually, as of October 1, and whenever assessment of hedge effectiveness.
This standard will be effective events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying for the Company as of January 1, 2019.
Early adoption is valueof an asset may not be recoverable.
The Company is currently evaluating the method of impairment assessment, management calculates the fair value of adoption and the potential impact on its financial position and the intangible assets using the same methodology as described results of operations of adopting this guidance.
above under Valuation of intangible assets, including In-process 3.
Critical accounting estimates Research and Development IPR&D.
For PP&E, the Company The preparation of Financial Statements, in conformity with uses a variety of methodologies to determine the fair value, U. S. GAAP and SEC regulations, requires management to make including appraisals and discounted cash flow models, which estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported estimate the future cash flows expected to result from the use of and disclosed amounts of assets, liabilities and equity at the date the asset and its eventual disposition.
If the carrying value of long of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of lived assets exceeds its fair value, then the asset is written-down revenues and expenses during the period.
On an on-going basis, toits fair value.
the Company evaluates its estimates, judgments and Intangible assets related to commercially marketed products methodologies.
Estimates are based on historical experience, areamortized over their estimated useful lives on an economic current conditions and on various other assumptions that are consumption method, or a straight-line basis when straight-line reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form method approximates economic consumption method.
Intangible thebasis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets related to IPR&D product rights are treated as indefiniteassets, liabilities and equity and the amounts of revenues and lived intangible assets and not amortized until the product is expenses.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under approved for sale by regulatory authorities in specified markets.
Atthat time, the Company will determine the useful life of the asset, Valuation of intangible assets, including In-process Research reclassify the asset out of IPR&D and begin amortization.
and Development IPR&D If IPR&D projects are not successfully developed and or the value In conjunction with the accounting for business combinations, of the commercially marketed products becomes impaired, fail theCompany recorded intangible assets primarily related to during development, are abandoned or subject to significant delay commercially marketed products and IPR&D projects.
The or do not receive the relevant regulatory approvals, the Company Company has intangible assets of $33,046.1 million as of December may not realize the future cash flows that it has estimated nor 31, 2017 and $34,697.5 million as of December 31, 2016. recover the value of the initial or subsequent R&D investments If the Company acquires an asset or group of assets that do not made subsequent to acquisition of the asset project.
If such meet the definition of a business under applicable accounting circumstances occur, the Companys future operating results standards, the acquired IPR&D is expensed on its acquisition date.
Future costs to develop these assets are recorded to Research Goodwill and development expense as they are incurred.
Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred The identifiable intangible assets are measured at their respective over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities fair values as of the acquisition date.
When significant identifiable assumed in a business combination.
The Company has $19,831.7 intangible assets are acquired, the Company engages an million and $17,888.2 million of goodwill as of December 31, 2017 independent third-party valuation firm to assist in determining the and 2016, respectively, as a result of accounting for business fair values of these assets as of the acquisition date.
Discounted combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.
cash flow models are typically used in these valuations and the The Company assesses the goodwill balance within its single models used in valuing these intangible assets require the use of reporting unit annually, as of October 1, and whenever events or significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to: changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the may not be recoverable to determine whether any impairment in products or product candidates: this asset may exist and, if so, the extent of such impairment.
The the probability of success for unapproved product candidates Company reviews goodwill for impairment by assessing qualitative and quantitative factors, including comparing the market considering their stages of development: capitalization of the Company to the carrying value of its assets.
the time and resources needed to complete the development Events or circumstances that might require an interim evaluation and approval of product candidates: include unexpected adverse business conditions, economic projecting regulatory approvals: and factors, unanticipated technological changes or competitive developing appropriate discount rates and probability rates activities and acts by governments and courts.
136 Shire Annual Report 2017 The Company completed its annual impairment test in the fourth withrespect to that product, the Company may either refund the quarters of 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and determined in sales price paid by the customer by issuance of a credit, or each of those periods that the carrying value of goodwill was not exchange the returned product with replacement inventory.
In each year, the fair value of the reporting unit, which Company typically does not provide cash refunds.
includes goodwill, was significantly in excess of the carrying The Company estimates the proportion of recorded revenue that valueof the reporting unit.
will result in a return by considering relevant factors, including but Revenue Recognition and Related Allowances not limited to: a.
Product Revenue past product returns activity: The Company recognizes revenues from Product sales when the duration of time taken for products to be returned: thereis persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery the estimated level of inventory in the distribution channel: has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability product recalls and discontinuances: isreasonably assured.
The Company records Product sales net the shelf life of products: ofsales deductions.
the launch of new drugs or new formulations: and b.
Other Revenue the loss of patent protection, exclusivity or new competition.
Royalty income relating to licensed technology is generally The accrual estimation process for product returns involves, in recognized when the licensee sells the underlying product.
The each case, a number of interrelating assumptions, which vary Company estimates sales amounts and related royalty income foreach combination of product and customer.
based on the historical product information.
Estimates are revised pursuant to receiving sales information from the relevant licensee.
As of December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, reserves for product returns Ifthe Company is unable to reliably estimate the amount based on were $175.7 million, $118.4 million, and $128.3 million or 1.2%, 1.1% past experiences, the amount of royalty income is recorded when and 2.1%, respectively, of Product sales.
Historically, actual returns sales information from the relevant licensee is received.
have not varied significantly from the reserves provided.
c. Sales Deductions Income Taxes Sales deductions consist primarily of statutory rebates to State The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and Medicaid and other government agencies: Medicare Part D liability method.
Provisions for federal, state and foreign income rebates: commercial rebates and fees to Managed Care taxes are calculated on reported pre-tax earnings based on Organizations MCOs, Group Purchasing Organizations GPOs, current laws.
Deferred taxes are provided using enacted tax rates distributors and specialty pharmacies: product returns: sales on the future tax consequences of temporary differences, which discounts including trade discounts : distribution service fees: are the differences between the financial statement carrying wholesaler chargebacks: and allowances for coupon and patient amount of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and assistance programs.
These deductions are recorded as the tax benefits of carryforwards.
In the normal course of business, reductions to revenue in the same period as the related sales are the Company is audited by the Irish and foreign tax authorities, and recognized.
Reserves are based on estimates of the amounts it is periodically challenged regarding the amount of taxes due.
earned or to be claimed on the related sales.
Estimates are based These challenges primarily relate to the timing and amount of on the Companys historical experience of existing or similar deductions and the transfer pricing in various tax jurisdictions.
programs, current contractual and statutory requirements, TheCompany believes its tax positions comply with applicable specificknown market events and trends, industry data and taxlaw and the Company intends to defend its positions.
forecasted customer buying and payment patterns.
Additionally, In accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, management is certain rebates are based on annual purchase volumes which required to develop estimates as to whether a tax benefit should arenot known until completion of the annual period on which be recognized in the consolidated financial statements, based theyare based.
As a result, the Company estimates the onwhether it is more likely than not that the technical merits of the accrualsand related reserves required for amounts payable position will be sustained based on audit by the tax authorities.
Inaccounting for income tax uncertainties, management is If actual results vary, the Company may need to adjust these required to make judgments in the determination of the unit of estimates, which could have an effect on earnings in the period account, the evaluation of the facts, circumstances and information ofthe adjustment.
in respect of the tax position taken, together with the estimates of amounts that the Company may be required to pay in ultimate Aggregate reserves for Medicaid and MCO rebates as of settlement with the tax authority.
December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $1,612.7 million, $1,431.3 million and $982.4 million or 11%, 13% and 16%, respectively, of Any outcome upon settlement that differs from the recorded Product sales.
Historically, actual rebates have not varied provision for uncertain tax positions may result in a materially significantly from the reserves provided.
higher or lower tax expense in future periods, which could significantly impact the Companys results of operations or financial d. Product Returns condition.
However, the Company does not believe it is possible The Company typically accepts customer product returns in toreasonably estimate the potential impact of any such change thefollowing circumstances: a expiration of shelf life on certain inassumptions, estimates or judgments and the resultant change, products: b product damaged while in the Companys if any, in the Companys provision for uncertain tax positions, as possession: c under sales terms that allow for unconditional any such change is dependent on factors such as future changes return guaranteed sales : or d following product recalls or product in tax law or administrative practice, the amount and nature of withdrawals.
Generally, returns for expired product are accepted additional taxes which may be asserted by the taxation authorities, three months before and up to one year after expiration date of and the willingness of the relevant tax authorities to negotiate a therelevant product and the returned product is destroyed.
settlement for any such position.
Dependingon the product and the Companys return policy Shire Annual Report 2017 137 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting estimates continued Pension and other postemployment benefit OPEB plans The Company has significant deferred tax assets due to various The valuation of the funded status and net periodic benefit cost tax attributes, including net operating losses NOLs and tax credits iscalculated using actuarial assumptions.
These significant from Research and Development activities principally in the assumptions include the following: Republic of Ireland, the U. S. Switzerland, Belgium and Germany.
interest rates used to discount pension and OPEB plan liabilities: The realization of these assets is not assured and is dependent on the long-term rate of return on pension plan assets: various factors.
Management is required to exercise judgment in rates of increases in employee compensation used in estimating determining whether it is more likely than not that it would realize liabilities : these deferred tax assets.
In assessing the need for a valuation anticipated future healthcare costs used in estimating the OPEB allowance, management weighs all available positive and negative plan liability : and evidence including cumulative losses in recent years, expectations other assumptions involving demographic factors such as of future taxable income, carry forward and carry back potential retirement, mortality and turnover used in estimating liabilities.
under relevant tax law, expiration period of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent and feasible tax-planning Selecting assumptions involves an analysis of both short-term strategies.
A valuation allowance is established where there is andlong-term historical trends and known economic and market anexpectation that on the balance of probabilities management conditions at the time of the measurement date.
The use of considers it is more likely than not that the relevant deferred tax different assumptions would result in different measures of the assets will not be realized.
If actual events differ from funded status and net cost.
Actual results in the future could differ managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates from expected results.
A 50 basis points decrease in the discount areadjusted in the future, any changes to the valuation allowance rate would result in an annual increase in pension and other could significantly impact the Companys financial condition and postretirement benefit expense of approximately $6.5 million and results of operations.
an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $108.2 million.
A 50 basis points increase in the discount rate would result Litigation and legal proceedings in an annual decrease in pension and other postretirement benefit The Company has a number of lawsuits pending.
The Company expense of approximately $7.3 million and an decrease in the recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable losses when benefit obligation of approximately $93.8 million The Companys management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
Estimates of key assumptions are listed in Note 19, Retirement and Other Benefit losses may be developed substantially before the ultimate loss is Programs, to the consolidated financial statements.
known, and are therefore refined each accounting period as additional information becomes known.
In instances where the Share-based compensation Company is unable to develop a reasonable estimate of loss, no loss The Company makes certain assumptions in order to value and contingency provision is recorded at that time: however, disclosure record expense associated with awards made under the sharewould be made if the loss contingency is at least reasonably possible based compensation arrangements.
Changes in these to occur.
These estimates are reviewed quarterly and changed when assumptions may lead to variability with respect to the amount expectations are revised.
An outcome that deviates from the ofexpense recognized in connection with share-based payments.
Companys estimate may result in an additional expense or credit in The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to compute the a future accounting period.
As of December 31, 2017, provisions for estimated fair value of stock option awards.
Using this model, litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes totaled $76.2 fairvalue is calculated based on assumptions with respect to million 2016: $415.0 million.
i expected volatility of stock price, ii the periods of time options Contingent consideration payable are expected to be held prior to exercise expected lives, iii The fair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable as expected dividend yield on common stock, and iv risk-free of December 31, 2017 was $1,168.2 million 2016: $1,058.0 million.
Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones and Restructuring costs royalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with The Company has made estimates and judgments regarding various business combinations.
The amounts ultimately payable by theamount and timing of its restructuring expense and liability, the Company are dependent upon the successful achievement of including current and future period termination benefits and the relevant milestones and future net sales of the relevant products otherexit costs to be incurred when related actions take place.
over the life of the milestone or royalty term, respectively.
Severance and other related costs are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as a component of Reorganization costs The Company estimates the fair value of contingent consideration or Integration and acquisition costs.
Actualresults may differ from payable using the income approach, based on a discounted cash these estimates.
The discounted cash flow method uses inputs with values that may not be observable in a public trading market, including, but not limited to: the probability of, and period in which, the relevant milestone event is expected to be achieved: the amount of royalties that will be payable based on forecast net sales of the relevant products: and the discount rates to be applied in calculating the present values of the relevant milestone or royalty.
Significant judgment is employed by the Company in developing these estimates and assumptions.
If actual events differ from managements estimates, or to the extent that these estimates are adjusted in the future, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially affected in the period of any such change of estimate.
138 Shire Annual Report 2017 4. Business Combinations The purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Baxalta was Acquisition of Baxalta finalized in the second quarter of 2017.
The Companys allocation On June 3, 2016, Shire acquired all of the outstanding common of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed stock of Baxalta for $18.00 per share in cash and 0.1482 Shire as of the acquisition date, including measurement period American Depository Shares ADSs per Baxalta share, or if a adjustments, is outlined below.
former Baxalta shareholder properly elected, 0.4446 Shire ordinary shares per Baxalta share.
Preliminary value as of Baxalta was a global biopharmaceutical company that focused acquisition date as ondeveloping, manufacturing and commercializing therapies for previously orphan diseases and underserved conditions in hematology, Measurement reported as of immunology and oncology.
period Fair December 31, adjustments value 2016 The purchase price consideration for the acquisition of Baxalta $M $M $M wasfinalized in the second quarter of 2017.
The fair value of the Assets purchase price consideration consisted of the following: Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 583.2 583.2 Fair value Accounts receivable 1,069.7 96.4 973.3 $M Inventories 3,893.4 81.2 3,974.6 Cash paid to shareholders 12,366.7 Other current assets 576.0 5.3 581.3 Fair value of stock issued to shareholders 19,353.2 Total current assets 6,122.3 9.9 6,112.4 Fair value of partially vested stock options and RSUs assumed 508.8 Property, plant and equipment 5,452.7 46.5 5,406.2 Contingent consideration payable 165.0 Investments 128.2 128.2 Total purchase price consideration 32,393.7 Goodwill 11,422.4 1,076.2 12,498.6 The acquisition of Baxalta was accounted for as a business Intangible assets combination using the acquisition method of accounting.
Shire Currently marketed products 21,995.0 830.0 21,165.0 issued 305.2 million shares to former Baxalta shareholders at the In-Process Research and date of the acquisition.
For a more detailed description of the fair Development IPR&D 730.0 570.0 160.0 value of the partially vested stock options and RSUs assumed, Contract based refer to Note 27, Share-based Compensation Plans, to the arrangements 42.2 42.2 consolidated financial statements.
Other non-current assets 155.0 69.7 224.7 The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Baxalta have Total assets 46,047.8 310.5 45,737.3 been recorded at their fair value as of June 3, 2016, the date of Liabilities acquisition.
The Companys consolidated financial statements Current liabilities: included the results of Baxalta from the date of acquisition.
The Accounts payable and amount of Baxaltas post-acquisition revenues included in the accrued expenses 1,321.9 2.7 1,319.2 Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year Other current liabilities 354.4 9.0 363.4 ended December 31, 2016 was $4,011.6 million.
After the closing Long term borrowings of the acquisition, the Company began integrating Baxalta and as and capital leases 5,424.9 5,424.9 such the combined business is now sharing various research and Deferred tax liability 5,445.3 315.0 5,130.3 development and selling, general and administrative functions.
As Other non-current liabilities 1,103.6 2.2 1,105.8 a result, computing a separate measure of Baxaltas stand-alone Total liabilities 13,650.1 306.5 13,343.6 profitability for periods after the acquisition date is not practical.
Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed 32,397.7 4.0 32,393.7 Consideration Fair value of purchase consideration 32,397.7 4.0 32,393.7 Shire Annual Report 2017 139 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business Combinations continued Goodwill The measurement period adjustments for Intangible assets reflect Goodwill of $12,498.6 million, which is not deductible for tax changes in the estimated fair value of currently marketed products purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from and IPR&D.
Changes are mainly related to finalizing the unit of combining the operations of Baxalta with Shire, intangible assets account judgments and other changes in estimates including that do not qualify for separate recognition at the time of the Costof sales allocation and royalty expense.
The measurement acquisition, the value of the assembled workforce, and impacted period adjustments for Inventory primarily reflect refinements by establishing a deferred tax liability for the acquired identifiable intheestimated selling price of inventory.
The changes in the intangible assets which have no tax basis.
estimated fair values primarily are to more accurately reflect Contingent consideration marketparticipant assumptions about facts and circumstances The Company acquired certain contingent obligations classified existing asof the acquisition date.
The measurement period ascontingent consideration related to Baxaltas historical business adjustments did not result from intervening events subsequent combinations.
Additional consideration is conditionally due upon tothe acquisition date.
the achievement of certain milestones related to the development, As a result of measurement period adjustments related to the regulatory, first commercial sale and other sales milestones, which change in fair value of currently marketed products and inventory, could total up to approximately $1.5 billion.
The Company may also acharge of $85.2 million was recognized in Cost of sales and a pay royalties based on certain product sales.
The Company benefit of $23.3 million was recognized in Amortization of acquired estimated the fair value of the assumed contingent consideration intangible assets, respectively, in the Companys Consolidated tobe $165.0 million using a probability weighting approach that Statements of Operations.
These adjustments would have been considered the possible outcomes based on assumptions related recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016 if these to the timing and probability of the product launch date, discount adjustments had been recognized as of the acquisition date.
rates matched to the timing of first payment and probability of success rates and discount adjustments on the related cash flows.
Intangible assets The fair value of the identifiable intangible assets has been Inventory estimated using an income approach, which is a valuation The estimated fair value of work-in-process and finished goods technique that provides an estimate of the fair value of an asset inventory was determined utilizing the net realizable value, based based on market participant expectations of the incremental on the expected selling price of the inventory, adjusted for aftertax cash flows an asset would generate over its remaining incremental costs to complete the manufacturing process and for useful life.
The useful lives for currently marketed products were direct selling efforts, as well as for a reasonable profit allowance.
determined based upon the remaining useful economic lives of The estimated fair value of raw material inventory was valued at theassets that are expected to contribute to future cash flows.
replacement cost, which is equal to the value a market participant would pay to acquire the inventory.
Currently marketed products totaling $21,165.0 million relate to intellectual property IP rights acquired for Baxaltas currently The fair value adjustment related to inventory is expensed based marketed products.
The estimated useful life of the intangible on the expected product-specific inventory utilization, which is assets related to currently marketed products range from 6 to reviewed on a periodic basis and is recorded within Cost of sales 23years weighted average 21 years, with amortization being in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Retirement plans IPR&D intangible assets totaling $160.0 million represent the value The Company assumed pension plans as part of the acquisition of assigned to R&D projects acquired.
The IPR&D intangible assets are Baxalta, including defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived intangible assets and in the U. S. and foreign jurisdictions, which had a net liability will be subject to impairment testing until completion or abandonment balance of $610.4 million.
As of June 3, 2016, the Baxalta defined of the projects.
Upon successful completion of each project, the benefit pension plans had assets with a fair value of $358.5 million.
Company will make a separate determination of the estimated useful Integration and acquisition costs life of the IPR&D intangible asset and the related amortization will be In the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company expensed recorded as an expense over the estimated useful life.
$763.9 million relating to the acquisition and integration of Baxalta, Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in the which have been recorded within Integration and acquisition costs development of those asset valuations include the estimated net in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Refer to cash flows for each year for each asset or product including net Note 6, Integration and Acquisition Costs, for further information revenues, cost of sales, R&D costs, selling and marketing costs, regarding the Companys Integration and acquisition costs for the working capital asset contributory asset charges and other cash year ended December 31, 2017. flow assumptions, the appropriate discount rate to select in order Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information to measure the risk inherent in each future cash flow stream, the The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents assessment of each assets life cycle, the potential regulatory and the combined results of the operations of Shire and Baxalta as if commercial success risks, competitive trends impacting the asset the acquisition of Baxalta had occurred as of January 1, 2015. and each cash flow stream as well as other factors.
Theunaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily The discount rate used to arrive at the present value at the indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually acquisition date of the IPR&D intangible assets was 9.5% to reflect would have been had the respective acquisition been completed the internal rate of return and incremental commercial uncertainty on January 1, 2015.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial in the cash flow projections.
No assurances can be given that the information does not purport to project the future results of underlying assumptions used to prepare the discounted cash flow operations of the combined Company.
For these and other reasons, actual results may vary significantly from estimated results.
140 Shire Annual Report 2017 Year ended thecombined business is now sharing various research and December 31, development and selling, general and administrative functions.
2016 Asa result, computing a separate measure of Dyaxs stand-alone $M profitability for periods after the acquisition date is not practical.
Revenues 13,999.6 The purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Dyax was Net income from continuing operations 2,213.6 finalized in the first quarter of 2017.
The allocation of the total Per share amounts: purchase price is outlined below.
Net income from continuing operations per share basic 2.87 Net income from continuing operations per share diluted 2.85 Fair value $M The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the Assets following pro forma adjustments: Current assets: i a n adjustment to increase net income for the year ended Cash and cash equivalents 241.2 December 31, 2016 by $678.9 million to eliminate integration Accounts receivable 22.5 and acquisition related costs incurred by Shire and Baxalta: Inventories 20.2 Other current assets 8.1 ii a n adjustment to increase net income for the year ended December 31, 2016 by $847.9 million to reflect the expense Total current assets 292.0 related to the unwind of inventory fair value adjustments as Property, plant and equipment 5.8 inventory is sold: Goodwill 2,702.1 Intangible assets iii a n adjustment to increase amortization expense for the year Currently marketed projects 135.0 ended ended December 31, 2016 by $304.0 million related tothe identifiable intangible assets acquired: and IPR&D 4,100.0 Contract based royalty arrangements 425.0 iv a n adjustment to decrease net income for the year ended Other non-current assets 28.6 December 31, 2016 by $42.5 million, primarily related to the Total assets 7,688.5 additional interest expense associated with the debt incurred topartially fund the acquisition of Baxalta and the amortization Liabilities of related deferred debt issuance costs.
Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses 30.0 The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, where Other current liabilities 1.7 applicable.
Deferred tax liability 1,325.4 Acquisition of Dyax Other non-current liabilities 1.4 On January 22, 2016, Shire acquired all of the outstanding Total liabilities 1,358.5 common stock of Dyax for $37.30 per share in cash.
Under the Fair value of identifiable assets acquired terms of the merger agreement, former Dyax shareholders may and liabilities assumed 6,330.0 receive additional value through a non-tradable contingent value Consideration right worth $4.00 per share, payable upon U. S. Food and Drug Fair value of purchase consideration 6,330.0 Administration FDA approval of SHP643 formerly DX-2930 in Hereditary Angioedema HAE.
Currently marketed products Dyax was a publicly-traded, Massachusetts-based rare disease Currently marketed products totaling $135.0 million relate to biopharmaceutical company primarily focused on the development intellectual property rights acquired for KALBITOR.
The fair value of plasma kallikrein pKal inhibitors for the treatment of HAE.
ofthe currently marketed product has been estimated using an Dyaxs most advanced clinical program was SHP643, a Phase 3 income approach, based on the present value of incremental after program with the potential for improved efficacy and convenience tax cash flows attributable to KALBITOR.
SHP643 has received Fast Track, Breakthrough The estimated useful life of the KALBITOR intangible asset is 18 Therapy, and Orphan Drug Designations by the FDA and has also years, with amortization being recorded on a straight-line basis.
received Orphan Drug status in the EU.
Dyaxs sole marketed product, KALBITOR, is a pKal inhibitor for the treatment of acute IPR&D attacks of HAE in patients 12 years of age and older.
The IPR&D asset of $4,100.0 million relates to Dyaxs clinical program SHP643, a Phase 3 program with the potential for The acquisition of Dyax was accounted for as a business improved efficacy and convenience for HAE patients.
The IPR&D combination using the acquisition method.
The acquisition-date intangible asset is capitalized and accounted for as indefinite-lived fairvalue consideration was $6,330.0 million, comprising cash paid intangible assets and will be subject to impairment testing until on closing of $5,934.0 million and the fair value of the contingent completion or abandonment of the projects.
The fair value of this value right of $396.0 million maximum payable $646.0 million.
IPR&D asset was estimated based on an income approach, using Theassets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Dyax have the present value of incremental after tax cash flows expected to been recorded at their fair value as of January 22, 2016, the date be generated by this development project.
The Companys consolidated financial statements flows have been probability adjusted to take into account the include the results of Dyax as of January 22, 2016.
The amount development stage of completion and the remaining risks and ofDyaxs post-acquisition revenues included in the Companys uncertainties surrounding the future development and Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended commercialization.
After the closing of the acquisition, the Company began integrating Dyax and as such Shire Annual Report 2017 141 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4. Business Combinations continued 5.
Collaborative and Other Licensing Arrangements The estimated probability adjusted after tax cash flows used to The Company is party to certain collaborative and licensing estimate the fair value of intangible assets have been discounted arrangements.
In some of these arrangements, Shire and the at9%.
licensee are both actively involved in the development and commercialization of the licensed product and have exposure Royalty rights torisks and rewards dependent on its commercial success.
Intangible assets totaling $425.0 million relate to royalty rights arising from licensing agreements of a portfolio of product Out-licensing arrangements candidates.
This portfolio includes two approved products, The Company has entered into various licensing arrangements marketed by Eli Lilly & Company, and various development-stage where it has licensed certain product or intellectual property rights products.
Multiple product candidates with other pharmaceutical for consideration such as up-front payments, development companies are in various stages of clinical development for which milestones, sales milestones and or royalty payments.
Under the the Company is eligible to receive future royalties and or milestone terms of these licensing arrangements, the Company may receive payments.
development milestone payments up to an aggregate amount of$10.3 million and sales milestones up to an aggregate amount The fair value of these royalty rights has been estimated using of$91.0 million.
The receipt of these substantive milestones is anincome approach, based on the present value of incremental uncertain and contingent on the achievement of certain after-tax cash flows attributable to each royalty right.
development milestones or the achievement of a specified level The estimated useful lives of these royalty rights range from seven ofannual net sales by the licensee.
During the years ended 2017 to nine years weighted average eight years, with amortization and 2016, the Company received cash related to up-front and being recorded on a straight-line basis.
milestone payments of $9.1 million and $10.5 million, respectively.
During the years ended 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company Goodwill recognized milestone income of $82.5 million, $17.4 million and Goodwill of $2,702.1 million, which is not deductible for tax $8.9 million, respectively, in other revenues, and $34.6 million, purposes, includes the expected synergies that will result from $63.0 million and $51.0 million, respectively, in product sales for combining the operations of Dyax with Shire: intangible assets shipment of product to the relevant licensee.
thatdo not qualify for separate recognition at the time of the acquisition: the value of the assembled workforce: and impacted Collaboration and in-licensing arrangements by establishing a deferred tax liability for the acquired identifiable The Company is party to various collaborative and in-licensing intangible assets which have no tax basis.
These agreements generally provide for commercialization rights to a product or products being developed Supplemental disclosure of pro forma information by the counterparty, and in exchange often resulted in an upfront The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents payment upon execution of the agreement and an obligation that the combined results of the operations of Shire and Dyax as if the the Company make future development, regulatory approval or acquisitions of Dyax had occurred as of January 1, 2015.
The commercial milestone payments as well as royalty payments.
unaudited pro forma financial information is not necessarily Under the terms of these licensing arrangements, the Company indicative of what the consolidated results of operations actually made an initial $47.5 million, $110.0 million and $nil upfront license would have been had the respective acquisition been completed payment and milestone payments during the years ended 2017, atthe date indicated.
In addition, the unaudited pro forma financial 2016 and 2015, respectively, which were included in Research and information does not purport to project the future results of development expense in the Companys Consolidated Statements operations of the combined Company.
As of the December 31, 2017, the Company had the potential to make future payments related to option fees and Year ended development, regulatory and commercialization milestones totaling December 31, up to $5.5 billion, excluding potential future royalty payments.
2016 $M The following is a description of the Companys significant Revenues 11,402.5 collaboration agreements, including those that were acquired by the Company.
The acquisition-date fair value of the collaboration Net income from continuing operations 792.2 agreements acquired from Baxalta was included in the IPR&D.
Per share amounts: Net income from continuing operations per share basic 1.03 Rani Therapeutics LLC Net income from continuing operations per share diluted 1.02 In December 2017, Shire entered into a collaboration agreement with Rani Therapeutics, LLC Rani to conduct research on the use The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the of the RANI PILL technology for oral delivery of Factor VIII FVIII following pro forma adjustments: therapy for patients with hemophilia A.
The collaboration agreement grants Shire an exclusive option to negotiate a license i a n adjustment to increase net income for the year ended to develop and commercialize the technology for delivery of FVIII December 31, 2016 by $111.1 million to eliminate acquisition therapy following completion of feasibility studies.
Shire also made related costs incurred by Shire and Dyax and an equity investment in Rani.
ii a n adjustment to increase amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 by $1.3 million related to the identifiable intangible assets acquired.
The adjustments above are stated net of their tax effects, where applicable.
142 Shire Annual Report 2017 Novimmune S. A. Symphogen In July 2017, Shire entered into a licensing agreement with In June 2016, the Company acquired a research, option and Novimmune S. A. Novimmune.
The license grants Shire exclusive commercial agreement with Symphogen.
The Company acquired worldwide rights to develop and commercialize a bi-specific the agreement through the acquisition of Baxalta.
Under the antibody in preclinical development for the treatment ofhemophilia termsof the agreement, Shire and Symphogen plan to develop A and hemophilia A patients with inhibitors.
Under the terms of the checkpoint inhibitor therapies for up to six unique targets.
On a agreement, Shire will develop, and if approved, commercialize the product-by-product basis, following successful completion of product.
Shire made an initial upfront license payment.
Novimmune early-stage research activities up to and including Phase 1 clinical will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone payments trials, Shire will have exclusive option rights to complete late-stage based on clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones and development and worldwide commercialization.
responsible for development costs for each target prior to such option exercise.
Symphogen is eligible to receive milestone Parion Sciences Inc. payments based on development, regulatory and commercialization In May 2017, Shire entered into an agreement to license the milestones achieved after option exercise forallsix proteins and exclusive worldwide rights to SHP659 formerly known as P-321 future royalty payments.
from Parion Sciences Inc. Parion.
SHP659 is a Phase 2 investigational epithelial sodium channel inhibitor for the potential Ipsen Bioscience Inc. treatment of dry eye disease in adults.
Under the terms of the In June 2016, the Company acquired an exclusive license agreement, Shire will develop, and if approved, commercialize this agreement with Ipsen Bioscience Inc. s predecessor, Merrimack compound.
Parion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Merrimack relating to the development and will be entitled to receive additional potential milestone payments commercialization of ONIVYDE nanoliposomal irinotecan injection based on clinical, regulatory and commercial milestones and final-IRI.
The Company acquired the agreement through the Parion has the option to co-fund through additional stages of acquisition of Baxalta.
The arrangement includes all potential development in exchange for enhanced tiered low double-digit indications for final-IRI across all markets with the exception of the royalties.
In addition, Parion has the option to co-fund U. S. and Taiwan.
The first indication being pursued is for the commercialization activities and participate in the financial treatment of patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer who were outcomefrom those activities.
previously treated with gemcitabine-based therapy.
Ipsen is eligible to receive milestone payments related to development, regulatory Pfizer Inc. and commercialization milestones.
In July 2016, the Company licensed the global rights to all indications for SHP647 from Pfizer Inc. Pfizer SHP647 is an 6.
Integration and Acquisition Costs investigational biologic being evaluated for the treatment of For the year ended December 31, 2017, Shire recorded Integration moderate-to-severe inflammatory bowel disease.
Under the terms and acquisition costs of $894.5 million, primarily due to the of the agreement, Pfizer received an upfront payment and is acquisition and integration of Baxalta.
A charge of $120.7 million eligible to receive milestone payments based on clinical, regulatory relating to the change in fair value of contingent consideration and commercialization milestones and low double-digit royalties on payable is included in these costs.
any potential sales if the product is approved.
The Company entered its second phase of integration activities Precision BioSciences Inc. during 2017.
The costs associated with this phase primarily related In June 2016, the Company acquired a strategic immuno-oncology to headcount reduction as the Company advanced and completed collaboration with Precision BioSciences Inc.
The certain activities related to exiting transition services agreements Company acquired the collaboration through the acquisition of TSA with Baxter, integrating legal entities and rationalization ofthe Baxalta.
Together, Shire and Precision will develop chimeric Companys manufacturing facilities.
For further details on existing antigen receptor CAR T cell therapies for up to six unique targets.
agreements with Baxter, refer to Note 28, Agreements On a product-by-product basis, following successful completion of andTransactions with Baxter, of these consolidated financial early-stage research activities up to and including Phase 2 clinical statements.
The Company also drove savings through the trials, Shire will have exclusive option rights to complete late-stage continued prioritization of its research and development programs development and worldwide commercialization.
Precision is and continued consolidation of its commercial operations.
responsible for development costs for each target prior to option Theintegration of Baxalta is estimated to be completed by exercise.
Precision also has the right to participate in the midtolate 2019. development and commercialization of any licensed products The Baxalta integration and acquisition costs include $211.6 million resulting from the collaboration through a 50 50 co-development of employee severance and acceleration of stock compensation, and co-promotion option in the United States.
Precision is eligible $140.3 million of third-party professional fees, $89.9 million of to receive option fees and milestone payments based on expenses associated with facility consolidations and $231.7 million development, regulatory and commercialization milestones, in of asset impairments for the year ended December 31, 2017. addition to future royalty payments.
TheCompany expects the majority of these expenses, except forcertain costs related to facility consolidations, to be paid within 12 months from the date the related expenses were incurred.
Shire Annual Report 2017 143 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 6.
Integration and Acquisition Costs continued In October 2014, the Company announced its plans to relocate The following table summarizes the type and amount of costs positions to Lexington, Massachusetts from its Chesterbrook, recorded and the related reserve for the years ended December Pennsylvania site and establish Lexington as the Companys U. S. 31, 2017 and 2016: operational headquarters in continuation of the One Shire efficiency program.
During 2015, the Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $97.9 million, primarily related to employee involuntary Severance and employee Lease termination benefits and other reorganization costs primarily benefits terminations Total related to the Companys One Shire business reorganization.
$M $M $M TheOne Shire reorganization was substantially completed as As of January 1, 2016 ofDecember 31, 2015.
Results of Discontinued Operations integration costs 267.3 267.3 Following the divestment of the Companys DERMAGRAFT Paid utilized 193.3 193.3 business in January 2014, the operating results associated with As of December 31, 2016 74.0 74.0 theDERMAGRAFT business have been classified as discontinued Amount charged to operations in the Companys Consolidated Statements of integration costs 175.2 72.7 247.9 Operations for all periods presented.
Paid utilized 176.3 16.1 192.4 During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company recorded As of December 31, 2017 72.9 56.6 129.5 a gain of $18.0 million net of tax of $8.9 million, primarily related tolegal contingencies related to the divested DERMAGRAFT For the year ended December 31, 2016, Shire recorded Integration business and the release of escrow to Shire.
and acquisition costs of $883.9 million primarily related to the acquisition and integration of Dyax and Baxalta.
These costs In January 2017, Shire entered into a final settlement agreement with primarily consist of $463.4 million of employee severance and the Department of Justice DOJ in the amount of $350.0 million, plus acceleration of stock compensation, $378.7 million of third-party interest which was accrued in 2016 and paid during 2017. professional fees, $58.1 million of contract terminations and a After the civil settlement with the DOJ was finalized, Shire and credit of $11.1 million relating to the change in fair value of Advanced BioHealing Inc. s ABH equity holders entered into a contingent consideration.
settlement agreement and ABHs equity holders released the $37.5 For the year ended December 31, 2015, Shire recorded net million escrow to Shire.
Shire released the claims against ABH integration and acquisition costs of $39.8 million.
The net equity holders upon receiving the entire amount held in escrow.
integration and acquisition costs principally comprises costs During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recorded related to the acquisition and integration of NPS Pharma, a loss of $276.1 million net of tax benefit of $98.8 million, primarily Viropharma, Dyax and Baxalta of $189.7 million, offset by a net related to legal contingencies related to the divested credit relating to the change in the fair value of contingent DERMAGRAFT business.
This net credit principally relates to the acquisition of Lumena, reflecting the agreement in During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company recorded thethird quarter of 2015 to settle all future contingent milestones a loss from discontinued operations of $34.1 million net of tax payable to former Lumena shareholders for a one-time cash benefit of $18.9 million, primarily relating to a change in estimate payment of $90.0 million and the acquisition of Lotus Tissue inrelation to reserves for onerous leases retained by the Company.
Repair, Inc. reflecting a lower probability of success for the 9.
Accounts Receivable, Net SHP608 asset for the treatment of Dystrophic Epidermolysis Accounts receivable as of December 31, 2017 of $3,009.8 million Bullosa DEB as a result of certain preclinical toxicity findings.
December 31, 2016: $2,616.5 million, are stated at the invoiced 7.
Reorganization Costs amount and net of reserve for discounts and doubtful accounts The Company incurred Reorganization costs totaling $47.9 million of$271.5 million December 31, 2016: $169.6 million.
during the year ended December 31, 2017.
The costs primarily Reserve for discounts and doubtful accounts: related to the planned closure of certain facilities and associated costs of $28.1 million and employee termination and other costs of 2017 2016 2015 $10.6 million.
As of December 31, 2017, cash payments associated $M $M $M with these costs were not significant.
Other restructuring charges recorded, which were not significant, during the year ended As of January 1 169.6 55.8 48.5 December 31, 2017 relate to professional and consulting fees.
Provision charged to operations 1,408.1 838.1 424.2 Payments credits 1,306.2 724.3 416.9 The Company incurred reorganization costs totaling $121.4 million As of December 31 271.5 169.6 55.8 during the year ended December 31, 2016.
The costs primarily related to the planned closure of certain manufacturing facilities As of December 31, 2017, accounts receivable included and associated asset impairments of $77.4 million and employee $106.6million December 31, 2016: $102.2 million related to termination and other costs of $16.2 million.
As of December 31, royalties receivable.
2016, cash payments associated with these costs were not significant.
Other restructuring charges recorded, which were not significant for the year ended December 31, 2016, relate to the closure of other offices and the related employee relocation.
Goodwill Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value.
The following table provides a roll-forward of the Goodwill balance: Inventories comprise: 2017 2016 $M $M 2017 2016 Years to December 31 $M $M As of January 1 17,888.2 4,147.8 Finished goods 926.1 1,380.0 Acquisitions 1,076.2 14,124.5 Work-in-progress 1,574.0 1,491.0 Foreign currency translation and other 867.3 384.1 Raw materials 791.4 691.3 As of December 31 19,831.7 17,888.2 3,291.5 3,562.3 The increase in Goodwill during the year ended December 31, For a more detailed description of inventories acquired, refer to 2017 related to the measurement period adjustments of the Note 4, Business Combinations, to these consolidated financial acquisition of Baxalta.
For a more detailed description of statements.
measurement period adjustments, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations, to these consolidated financial statements.
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets Components of prepaid expenses and other current assets are 14.
Intangible assets summarized as follows: The following table summarizes the Companys intangible assets: 2017 2016 Currently Other Years to December 31 $M $M marketed intangible products IPR&D assets Total Prepaid expenses 242.6 183.9 December 31, 2017 Income tax receivable 179.9 237.5 Gross acquired Value added taxes receivable 59.8 40.3 intangible assets 31,973.5 5,113.9 835.9 37,923.3 Other current assets 313.0 344.6 Accumulated amortization 4,549.2 328.0 4,877.2 795.3 806.3 Intangible assets, net 27,424.3 5,113.9 507.9 33,046.1 12.
Property, Plant and Equipment, Net December 31, 2016 Property, plant and equipment are recorded at historical cost, net Gross acquired intangible of accumulated depreciation.
Components of Property, plant and assets 31,217.5 5,746.6 842.2 37,806.3 equipment, net are summarized as follows: Accumulated amortization 2,908.6 200.2 3,108.8 Intangible assets, net 28,308.9 5,746.6 642.0 34,697.5 2017 2016 Years to December 31 $M $M Other intangible assets are comprised primarily of royalty rights and other contract rights associated with Baxalta, Dyax and NPS.
Land 332.3 337.9 Buildings and leasehold improvements 1,940.7 1,915.4 The change in the net book value of intangible assets for the years Machinery, equipment and other 3,106.3 2,547.2 ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 is shown in the table below: Assets under construction 2,568.2 2,632.5 Total property, plant and equipment at cost 7,947.5 7,433.0 2017 2016 Years to December 31 $M $M Less: Accumulated depreciation 1,312.1 963.4 As of January 1 34,697.5 9,173.3 Property, plant and equipment, net 6,635.4 6,469.6 Acquisitions 1,385.0 27,462.8 Depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2017, Amortization charged 1,768.4 1,173.4 2016 and 2015 was $495.8 million, $292.9 million and $138.5 Impairment charges 20.0 8.9 million, respectively.
Foreign currency translation 1,522.0 756.3 During 2017, the Company determined it would divest certain As of December 31 33,046.1 34,697.5 facilities as part of its integration efforts.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company classified $19.2 million of assets as held for sale, The decrease in Intangible assets, net during the year ended which were reported in Prepaid expenses and other current December 31, 2017 relates to the measurement period assets.
The $19.2 million of held for sale assets was net of $27.7 adjustments of the acquisition of Baxalta and amortization of million of impairment charges recorded during 2017 and consisted intangible assets.
For a more detailed description of measurement primarily of property, plant and equipment.
The impairment period adjustments, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations, to charges were reported in Integration and acquisition costs.
The Company also completed the sales of certain assets during In connection with the acquisition of Baxalta, the Company 2017 that were previously classified as held for sale for total cash acquired IP rights related to currently marketed products of proceeds of $34.6 million.
Prior to the sales, the Company $21,165.0 million, IPR&D assets of $160.0 million and other recorded held for sale impairment charges of $44.1 million on contract rights of $42.2 million.
For a more detailed description of those assets in 2017, which were also reported in Integration this acquisition, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations, to these andacquisition costs.
Shire Annual Report 2017 145 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Fair value 14.
Intangible assets continued In connection with the acquisition of Dyax on January 22, 2016, Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 theCompany acquired IP rights related to currently marketed As of December 31, 2016 $M $M $M $M products of $135.0 million, IPR&D assets of $4,100.0 million and Financial assets: royalty rights of $425.0 million.
For a more detailed description of Marketable equity securities 65.8 65.8 this acquisition, refer to Note 4, Business Combinations, to these Marketable debt securities 15.5 3.6 11.9 consolidated financial statements.
Derivative instruments 18.0 18.0 Estimated amortization expense can be affected by various factors Total assets 99.3 69.4 29.9 including future acquisitions, disposals of product rights, regulatory Financial liabilities: approval and subsequent amortization of acquired IPR&D projects, Derivative instruments 8.3 8.3 foreign exchange movements and the technological advancement Contingent consideration and regulatory approval of competitor products.
The estimated payable 1,058.0 1,058.0 future amortization of acquired intangible assets for the next five Total liabilities 1,066.3 8.3 1,058.0 years is expected to be as follows: Marketable equity and debt securities are included within Anticipated Investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Contingent future consideration payable is included within Other current liabilities and amortization Other non-current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
$M For information regarding the Companys derivative arrangements, 2018 1,891.6 refer to Note 16, Financial Instruments, to these consolidated 2019 1,668.4 financial statements.
2020 1,570.3 Certain estimates and judgments were required to develop the fair 2021 1,536.7 value amounts.
The estimated fair value amounts shown above are 2022 1,511.0 not necessarily indicative of the amounts that the Company would realize upon disposition, nor do they indicate the Companys intent 15.
Fair Value Measurement or ability to dispose of the financial instrument.
Assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate As of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the following thefair value of each material class of financial instrument: financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a Marketable equity securities: the fair values of marketable equity recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical securities are estimated based on quoted market prices for assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and those investments.
Marketable debt securities: the fair values of debt securities areobtained from pricing services or broker dealers who either Fair value use quoted prices in an active market or proprietary pricing Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 applications, which include observable market information for As of December 31, 2017 $M $M $M $M like or same securities.
Financial assets: Derivative instruments: the fair values of the swap and forward Marketable equity securities 89.7 89.7 foreign exchange contracts have been determined using the month-end interest rate and foreign exchange rates, Marketable debt securities 17.9 3.8 14.1 respectively.
Derivative instruments 17.9 17.9 Joint venture net written option and contingent consideration Total assets 125.5 93.5 32.0 payable: the fair value of the contingent consideration payable Financial liabilities: has been estimated using the income approach using a Joint venture net written probability weighted discounted cash flow method.
option 40.0 40.0 Derivative instruments 14.2 14.2 There were no changes in valuation techniques or inputs utilized or transfers between fair value measurement levels during the years Contingent consideration payable 1,168.2 1,168.2 ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
Total liabilities 1,222.4 14.2 1,208.2 146 Shire Annual Report 2017 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Contingent consideration payable represents future milestones Basis Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Level 3 androyalties the Company may be required to pay in conjunction with various business combinations and license agreements.
Contingent consideration payable Thefair value of the Companys contingent consideration payable could significantly increase or decrease due to changes in certain 2017 2016 $M $M assumptions which underpin the fair value measurements.
Each set of assumptions is specific to the individual contingent Balance as of January 1 1,058.0 475.9 consideration payable.
Acquisitions 4.0 565.4 Change in fair value included in earnings 120.7 11.1 Fair value as of the measurement date Other 6.5 5.6 Balance as of December 31 1,168.2 1,058.0 Financial liabilities: Significant As of December Fair value Valuation unobservable In 2017, the increase in contingent consideration payable was 31, 2017 $M technique inputs Range primarily related to the Companys change in fair value of Income contingent consideration resulting from positive topline data for approach SHP643.
In 2016, the increase in contingent consideration payable probability Cash flow weighted scenario was related to the Companys acquisition of Dyax and Baxalta.
Joint venture net discounted probability Other contingent consideration payable primarily relates to foreign written option 40.0 cash flow weighting 0 to 80% currency adjustments.
Assumed market Of the $1,168.2 million of contingent consideration payable as of participant December 31, 2017, $626.8 million is recorded within Other current discount rate 16% liabilities and $541.4 million is recorded within Other non-current Financial assets and liabilities that are disclosed at fair value liabilities in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The carrying amounts and estimated fair values as of December Joint venture net written option 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 of the Companys financial In March 2017, Shire executed option agreements related to a joint assets and liabilities that are not measured at fair value on a venture that provides Shire with a call option on the partners recurring basis are as follows: investment in joint venture equity and the partner with a put option on its investment in joint venture equity.
The Company had a December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 liability of $40.0 million for the net written option based on the estimated fair value of these options as of December 31, 2017 and Carrying Carrying the Company re-measures the instrument to fair value through the amount Fair value amount Fair value Consolidated Statements of Operations.
$M $M $M $M Financial liabilities: Quantitative Information about Assets and Liabilities SAIIDAC notes 12,050.2 11,913.7 12,039.2 11,633.8 Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis Using Significant Baxalta notes 5,057.7 5,229.9 5,063.6 5,066.5 Unobservable Inputs Level 3 Capital lease obligation 349.2 349.2 353.6 353.6 Fair value as of the measurement date The estimated fair values of long-term debt were based upon Financial liabilities: Significant recent observable market prices and are considered Level 2 in As of December Fair value Valuation unobservable thefair value hierarchy.
The estimated fair value of capital lease 31, 2017 $M technique inputs Range obligations is based on Level 2 inputs.
Income approach The carrying amounts of other financial assets and liabilities probability Cumulative approximate their estimated fair value due to their short-term Contingent weighted probability of nature, such as liquidity and maturity of these amounts, or because consideration discounted milestones being there have been no significant changes since the asset or liability payable 1,168.2 cash flow achieved 21.9 to 90% was last re-measured to fair value on a non-recurring basis.
Assumed market participant discount rate 1.8 to 8.7% Periods in which milestones are expected to be achieved 2018 to 2040 Forecast quarterly royalties payable on net sales of $0.1 to $6.5 relevant products million Shire Annual Report 2017 147 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Financial Instruments The table below presents the notional amount, maximum duration Foreign Currency Contracts and fair value for the undesignated foreign currency derivatives: Due to the global nature of its operations, portions of the Companys revenues and operating expenses are recorded in December 31, December 31, currencies other than the U. S. dollar.
The value of revenues and 2017 2016 $M $M operating expenses measured in U. S. dollars is therefore subject tochanges in foreign currency exchange rates.
The main trading Notional amount 1,672.3 1,309.1 currencies of the Company are the U. S. dollar, Euro, British pound Maximum duration in months 3 months 3 months sterling, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen.
Fair value net asset 11.4 6.7 Transactional exposure arises where transactions occur in The Company considers the impact of its and its counterparties currencies different to the functional currency of the relevant credit risk on the fair value of the contracts as well as the ability of subsidiary.
It is the Companys policy that these exposures are each party to execute its contractual obligations.
As of December minimized to the extent practicable by denominating transactions 31, 2017, credit risk did not materially change the fair value of the in the subsidiarys functional currency.
Where significant exposures Companys foreign currency contracts.
remain, the Company uses foreign exchange contracts spot, forward and swap contracts to manage the exposure for balance Interest Rate Contracts sheet assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies The Company is exposed to the risk that its earnings and cash different to the functional currency of the relevant subsidiary.
flows could be adversely impacted by fluctuations in benchmark interest rates relating to its debt obligations on which interest is set The Company has master netting agreements with a number of at floating rates.
The Companys policy is to manage this risk to an counterparties to these foreign exchange contracts and on the acceptable level.
The Company is principally exposed to interest occurrence of specified events, the Company has the ability to rate risk on any borrowings under the Companys various debt terminate contracts and settle them with a net payment by one facilities and on part of the senior notes assumed in connection party to the other.
The Company has elected to present derivative with the acquisition of Baxalta.
Interest on each of these debt assets and derivative liabilities on a gross basis in the Consolidated obligations is set at floating rates, to the extent utilized.
The Company does not have credit risk related exposure under these facilities is to changes in U. S. dollar interest contingent features or collateral linked to the derivatives.
For further details related to interest rates on the Companys Designated Foreign Currency Derivatives various debt facilities, refer to Note 18, Borrowings and Capital Certain foreign currency forward contracts were designated as Leases, to these consolidated financial statements.
cash flow hedges and accordingly, to the extent effective, any Designated Interest Rate Derivatives unrealized gains or losses on these foreign currency forward As of December 31, 2017, interest rate swap contracts designated contracts were reported in AOCI.
Realized gains and losses for as fair value hedges were outstanding.
The effective portion of theeffective portion of such contracts were recognized in revenue thechanges in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts are or cost of sales when the sale of product in the currency being recorded as a component of the underlying Baxalta Notes with the hedged was recognized.
To the extent ineffective, hedge ineffective portion recorded in Interest expense.
Any net interest transaction gains and losses were reported in Other income payments made or received on the interest rate swap contracts expense, net.
arerecognized as a component of Interest expense in the The Company did not have any designated foreign currency Consolidated Statements of Operations.
As of December 31, 2016, the The table below presents the notional amount, maturity and fair Company had designated foreign currency forward contracts with value for the designated interest rate derivatives: a total notional value of $78.7 million with a maximum duration of six months: the fair value of these contracts was a net asset of December 31, December 31, $4.2million.
2017 2016 Undesignated Foreign Currency Derivatives $M $M The Company uses forward contracts to mitigate the foreign Notional amount 1,000.0 1,000.0 currency risk related to certain balance sheet positions, including June 2020 and June 2020 and intercompany and third-party receivables and payables.
The Maturity June 2025 June 2025 Company has not elected hedge accounting for these derivative Fair value net liability 7.7 1.2 instruments as the duration of these contracts is typically three months or less.
The changes in fair value of these derivatives are For the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, the Company reported in earnings.
recognized losses of $4.3 million and $6.0 million, respectively, as ineffectiveness related to these contracts as a component of Interest expense.
148 Shire Annual Report 2017 Summary of Derivatives The following tables summarize the income statement locations and gains and losses on the Companys designated and undesignated derivative instruments: Gain loss recognized Gain reclassified in OCI from AOCI into income Income 2017 2016 Statement 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M location $M $M Designated derivative instruments Cash flow hedges Foreign exchange contracts 0.9 14.6 Cost of sales 8.8 4.9 Gain loss recognized in income Income Statement 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 location $M $M Fair value hedges Interest rate contracts, net Interest expense 4.3 6.0 Undesignated derivative instruments Other income Foreign exchange contracts expense, net 84.8 40.2 Interest rate swap contracts Interest expense 3.2 Summary of Derivatives The following table presents the classification and estimated fair value of derivative instruments: Asset position Liability position Fair value Fair value December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Balance Sheet 2017 2016 Balance Sheet 2017 2016 location $M $M location $M $M Designated derivative Instruments Prepaid expenses and other current Other current Foreign exchange contracts assets 4.3 liabilities 0.1 Long term Long term Interest rate contracts borrowings 0.1 borrowings 7.7 1.3 4.4 7.7 1.4 Undesignated derivative instruments Prepaid expense and other Other current Foreign exchange contracts current assets 17.9 13.6 liabilities 6.5 6.9 Total derivative fair value 17.9 18.0 14.2 8.3 Potential effect of rights to offset 2.7 1.7 2.7 1.7 Net derivative 15.2 16.3 11.5 6.6 Shire Annual Report 2017 149 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 17.
Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses Senior Notes Issuance Components of Accounts payable and accrued expenses are On September 23, 2016, Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland summarized as follows: Designated Activity Company SAIIDAC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Shire plc, issued unsecured senior notes with a totalaggregate principal value of $12.1 billion SAIIDAC Notes, 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M guaranteed by Shire plc and, as of December 1, 2016, by Baxalta.
Below is a summary of the SAIIDAC Notes as of Accounts payable and accrued purchases 914.6 911.9 December 31, 2017: Accrued employee compensation and benefits payable 571.4 574.8 Carrying Accrued rebates 1,612.7 1,431.3 Effective amount Accrued sales returns 175.7 118.4 interest as of Other accrued expenses 910.1 1,276.0 Aggregate Coupon rate December 4,184.5 4,312.4 amount rate in 2017 31, 2017 $M % % $M 18.
Borrowings and Capital Leases Fixed-rate notes due 2019 3,300.0 1.900 2.05 3,291.9 Fixed-rate notes due 2021 3,300.0 2.400 2.53 3,286.4 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M Fixed-rate notes due 2023 2,500.0 2.875 2.97 2,489.5 Fixed-rate notes due 2026 3,000.0 3.200 3.30 2,982.4 Short term borrowings: 12,100.0 12,050.2 Baxalta notes 748.8 Borrowings under the Revolving Credit As of December 31, 2017, there was $49.8 million of debt issuance Facilities Agreement 810.0 450.0 costs and discount recorded as a reduction of the carrying amount Borrowings under the November 2015 of debt.
These costs will be amortized as additional interest Facilities Agreement 1,196.3 2,594.8 expense using the effective interest rate method over the period Capital leases 7.5 6.4 from issuance through maturity.
Other borrowings 26.1 16.8 2,788.7 3,068.0 Baxalta Notes Shire plc guaranteed senior notes issued by Baxalta with a total Long term borrowings: aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion in connection with the SAIIDAC notes 12,050.2 12,039.2 acquisition of Baxalta Baxalta Notes.
Below is a summary of the Baxalta notes 4,308.9 5,063.6 Baxalta Notes as of December 31, 2017: Borrowings under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement 2,391.8 Carrying Capital leases 341.7 347.2 Effective amount Other borrowings 51.6 58.0 interest as of 16,752.4 19,899.8 Aggregate Coupon rate December principal rate in 2017 31, 2017 Total borrowings and capital leases 19,541.1 22,967.8 $M % % $M For a more detailed description of the Companys financing Variable-rate notes LIBOR plus agreements, refer below.
The book values above include any premiums 2021 3,329.0 and adjustments related to hedging instruments.
For further details 2022 519.5 related to the interest rate derivative contracts, please see Note 16, Thereafter 8,591.9 Financial Instruments, to these consolidated financial statements.
Total obligations 19,635.4 Revolving Credit Facilities Agreement Less: Debt issuance cost and discount 94.3 On December 12, 2014, Shire entered into a $2.1 billion revolving Total debt obligations 19,541.1 credit facilities agreement RCF with a number of financial institutions.
As of December 31, 2017, the Company utilized $810.0 million of the RCF.
The RCF, which terminates on December 12, 2021, may be used for financing the general corporate purposes of Shire.
The RCF incorporates a $250.0 million U. S. dollar and Euro swingline facility operating as a sub-limit thereof.
150 Shire Annual Report 2017 Term Loan Facilities Agreements November 2015 Facilities Agreement On November 2, 2015, Shire entered into a $5.6 billion facilities agreement November 2015 Facilities Agreement, which is comprised ofthree amortizing credit facilities.
The total amount outstanding under the November 2015 Facilities Agreement was $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017.
During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company made $0.4 billion of advance repayments under November2015 Facility A and $2.2 billion of scheduled and advance repayments under November 2015 Facility B.
Both November 2015 Facility A and November 2015 Facility B were fully repaid during the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company also made $1.2 billion of advance repayments under November 2015 Facility C: consequently, the amount outstanding under November 2015 Facility C was $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2017 maturing on November 2, 2018.
Short-term uncommitted lines of credit Credit lines Shire has access to various Credit lines from a number of banks which are available to be utilized from time to time to provide short-term cash management flexibility.
These Credit lines can be withdrawn by the banks at any time.
The Credit lines are not relied upon for core liquidity.
As of December 31, 2017, these Credit lines were not utilized.
Capital Lease Obligations The capital leases are primarily related to office and manufacturing facilities.
As of December 31, 2017, the total capital lease obligations, including current portions, were $349.2 million.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs The Company sponsors various pension and other post-employment benefit OPEB plans in the U. S. and other countries.
Reconciliation of Pension and OPEB Plan Obligations and Funded Status The following provides information about projected benefit obligations, plan assets, the funded status and weighted-average assumptions of the OPEB and pension plans: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. $M $M $M $M $M $M Benefit obligations Beginning of period 384.1 581.4 25.0 Assumption of benefit obligations 441.6 503.8 23.5 Service cost 14.6 39.4 1.5 13.0 18.6 0.8 Interest cost 15.6 4.9 1.0 11.1 3.2 0.6 Participant contributions 8.9 3.2 Actuarial loss gain 34.4 22.9 1.2 10.6 29.8 0.1 Benefit payments 5.1 19.8 0.2 1.6 9.1 Plan amendments 9.0 Settlements 10.4 3.2 Curtailments 4.0 73.4 Foreign exchange 45.4 18.3 Other 5.0 4.0 113.0 End of Period 443.6 617.9 17.1 384.1 581.4 25.0 Fair value of plan assets Beginning of period 228.4 197.9 Assumption of plan assets 218.0 140.5 Actual return on plan assets 35.4 12.3 8.3 2.0 Employer contributions 0.9 32.2 0.2 0.4 12.3 Participant contributions 8.9 3.2 Benefit payments 5.0 19.8 0.2 1.6 9.1 Settlements 10.4 3.2 Foreign exchange 11.9 3.8 Other 4.2 3.3 56.0 End of Period 259.7 237.2 228.4 197.9 Funded status 183.9 380.7 17.1 155.7 383.5 25.0 Shire Annual Report 2017 151 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs continued Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. $M $M $M $M $M $M Other current liabilities 0.8 15.7 0.4 0.6 8.8 0.2 Other non-current liabilities 183.1 365.0 16.7 155.1 374.7 24.8 Net liability recognized 183.9 380.7 17.1 155.7 383.5 25.0 The majority of the Companys pension and OPEB plans were assumed with the acquisition of Baxalta on June 3, 2016.
The Company amended the OPEB and adopted a plan freeze effective December 31, 2017.
According to the amendment, employees who have not met certain criteria, may not qualify as an eligible retiree regardless of such employees age or service at the employees date of termination.
As a result, a prior service credit was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2017.
On December 31, 2016, the Company amended the U. S. pension plan which eliminated the estimate of future compensation levels beyond December 31, 2017, the effective date.
As a result, a curtailment gain of $69.4 million was recorded during 2016.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, Other primarily represents the recognition of additional defined benefit plan in Switzerland.
Accumulated Benefit Obligation Information The pension obligation represents the projected benefit obligation PBO as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The PBO incorporates assumptions relating to future compensation levels.
The accumulated benefit obligation ABO is the same as the PBO except that it does not include assumptions relating to future compensation levels.
The ABO as of December 31, 2017 for the U. S. pension plans was $443.6 million December 31, 2016: $373.2 million.
The ABO as of December 31, 2017 for the International pension plans was $494.2 million December 31, 2016: $457.9 million.
The funded status figures and ABO disclosed above reflect all of the Companys pension plans.
The following ABO and plan asset information includes only those individual plans that have an ABO in excess of plan assets.
2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M U. S. ABO 443.6 373.2 Fair value of plan assets 259.7 228.4 International ABO 469.0 437.5 Fair value of plan assets 209.6 176.2 Expected Net Pension and OPEB Plan Payments for the Next 10 Years International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. $M $M $M 2018 6.0 28.1 0.4 2019 7.7 20.7 0.5 2020 9.2 22.2 0.6 2021 10.7 24.3 0.8 2022 12.2 25.4 0.9 2023 through 2027 84.3 134.8 6.8 The expected net benefit payments reflect the Companys share of the total net benefits expected to be paid from the plans assets for funded plans or from the Companys assets for unfunded plans as of December 31, 2017.
The federal subsidies relating to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act are not expected to be significant.
152 Shire Annual Report 2017 Amounts Recognized in AOCI The pension and OPEB plans gains or losses not yet recognized in net periodic benefit cost are recognized in AOCI and amortized from AOCI to net periodic benefit cost in the future.
The following is a summary of the pre-tax net gain losses recorded in AOCI: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. $M $M $M $M $M $M Loss gain arising during the year 14.9 41.2 10.1 83.4 10.3 0.1 Reclassification of gain to income statement 1.3 69.4 Pension and other employee benefit loss gain, pre-tax 14.9 39.9 10.1 14.0 10.3 0.1 Refer to Note 20, Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss, for the net of tax balances included in AOCI as of December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The Company does not expect to amortize a significant amount of AOCI to net periodic benefit cost in 2018.
In 2016 the reclassification of gain to the income statement represents the recognition of the curtailment gain associated with the U. S. pension plans as further described above.
Net Periodic Benefit Cost The net periodic benefit cost is as follows: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. $M $M $M $M $M $M Net periodic benefit cost Service cost 14.6 39.4 1.5 13.0 18.6 0.8 Interest cost 15.6 4.9 1.0 11.1 3.2 0.6 Expected return on plan assets 15.9 7.4 8.9 3.9 Curtailment and other 1.9 69.4 20.0 Net periodic benefit cost 14.3 38.8 2.5 54.2 37.9 1.4 In 2016, the net periodic benefit cost is from June 3, 2016, the date the Company assumed the obligations from Baxalta, through December 31, 2016.
In 2016 Curtailments and other relates to the recognition of a curtailment gain of $69.4 million associated with the U. S. pension plans asdescribed above and a loss of $20.0 million for the recognition of a defined benefit plan in Switzerland.
Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Benefit Obligations at the Measurement Date The following weighted-average assumptions were used in calculating measurement of benefit obligations: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. % % % % % % Discount rate 3.7 1.0 3.5 4.2 1.0 4.3 Rate of compensation increase n a 3.0 n a 3.8 2.9 n a Healthcare cost trend rate n a n a 6.0 n a n a 6.3 Rate decreased to n a n a 5.0 n a n a 5.0 by the year end n a n a 2022 n a n a 2022 Shire Annual Report 2017 153 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs continued Weighted-Average Assumptions Used in Determining Net Periodic Benefit Cost The following weighted-average assumptions were used in determining net periodic benefit cost: December 31, 2017 December 31, 2016 International International U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. U. S. pensions pensions OPEB U. S. % % % % % % Discount rate 4.2 1.0 4.2 4.1 1.0 4.2 Expected return on plan assets 7.0 3.4 n a 7.0 4.5 n a Rate of compensation increase 3.8 3.0 n a 3.8 3.2 n a Healthcare cost trend rate n a n a 6.0 n a n a 6.5 Rate decreased to n a n a 5.0 n a n a 5.0 by the year end n a n a 2022 n a n a 2022 The Company establishes the expected return on plan assets Plan assets are invested using a total return investment approach assumption based primarily on a review of historical compound whereby a mix of equity securities, debt securities and other average asset returns, both Company-specific and the broad market investments are used to preserve asset values, diversify risk and and considering the Companys asset allocations, an analysis of exceed the planned benchmark investment return.
Investment current market and economic information and future expectations.
strategies and asset allocations are based on consideration of plan liabilities, the plans funded status and other factors, such as the The effect of a one-percent change in the assumed healthcare plans demographics and liability durations.
Investment cost trend rate would not have a significant impact on the OPEB performance is reviewed on a quarterly basis and asset allocations plan benefit obligation as of December 31, 2017 or the plans are reviewed at least annually.
service and interest cost during 2017.
Plan assets are managed in a balanced equity and fixed income Pension Plan Assets portfolio.
The target allocations for plan assets are 75% in an equity A committee of members of senior management is responsible portfolio and 25% in a fixed income portfolio.
The policy includes forsupervising, monitoring and evaluating the invested assets of an allocation range based on each individual investment type the Companys funded pension plans.
The committee abides by within the major portfolios that allows for a variance from the target policies and procedures relating to investment goals, targeted allocations of approximately 5%.
The equity portfolio may include asset allocations, risk management practices, allowable and common stock of U. S. and international companies, common prohibited investment holdings, diversification, use of derivatives, collective trust funds, mutual funds, hedge funds and real asset the relationship between plan assets and benefit obligations, and investments.
The fixed income portfolio may include cash, money other relevant factors and considerations.
In the United States, market funds with an original maturity of three months or less, U. S. Goldman Sachs Asset Management acts as an outsourced chief and foreign government and governmental agency issues, investment officer oCIO to perform the day-to-day management common collective trust funds, corporate bonds, municipal of pension assets.
securities, derivative contracts and asset-backed securities.
The policies and procedures include the following: While the committee provides oversight over plan assets for U. S. Ability to pay all benefits when due: and international plans, the summary above is specific to the plans Targeted long-term performance expectations relative to in the U. S. The plan assets for international plans are managed and applicable market indices, such as Standard & Poors, allocated by the entities in each country, with input and oversight Russell, MSCI EAFE, and other indices: provided by the committee.
Targeted asset allocation percentage ranges summarized The following pension assets are recorded at fair value on a below, and periodic reviews of these allocations: recurring basis using quoted prices in active markets for identical Specified investment holding and transaction prohibitions assets Level 1 : significant other observable inputs Level 2 : and forexample, private placements or other restricted securities, significant unobservable inputs Level 3.
Investments that are securities that are not traded in a sufficiently active market, measured at fair value using the net asset value per share or its shortsales, certain derivatives, commodities and margin equivalent as a practical expedient are not classified in the fair transactions : value hierarchy.
The fair value amounts presented in this table is Specified portfolio percentage limits on foreign holdings: and intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy and the Periodic monitoring of oCIO performance and adherence to fair value of plan assets.
154 Shire Annual Report 2017 U. S. pension plan assets International pension plan assets Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As of December 31, 2017 $M $M $M $M As of December 31, 2017 $M $M $M $M Assets Assets Mutual fund 17.9 17.9 Fixed income Total investments Cash and cash equivalents 3.8 3.8 at fair value 17.9 17.9 Government agency issues 1.7 1.7 Fixed income Corporate bonds 14.4 14.4 Cash equivalents 6.2 Mutual funds 32.4 32.4 Collective trust funds 52.4 Equity Mutual fund 12.7 Common stock Equity large cap 24.3 24.3 Collective trust funds 116.6 Mutual funds 50.3 50.3 Mutual funds 42.0 Real estate funds 14.3 6.4 20.7 Hedge fund 11.9 Other holdings 89.6 89.6 Fair value of pension Fair value of pension planassets 259.7 plan assets 141.2 96.0 237.2 Fair value Fair value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As of December 31, 2016 $M $M $M $M As of December 31, 2016 $M $M $M $M Assets Assets Fixed income Mutual fund 16.5 16.5 Cash and cash equivalents 6.2 6.2 Total investments at fair value 16.5 16.5 Government agency issues 0.6 0.6 Fixed income Corporate bonds 21.1 21.1 Cash equivalents 5.7 Mutual funds 24.4 24.4 Collective trust funds 46.4 Equity Mutual fund 11.4 Common Stock: Equity Large cap 19.9 19.9 Collective trust funds 100.4 Mid cap 1.6 1.6 Mutual funds 36.9 Total common stock 21.5 21.5 Hedge fund 11.1 Mutual funds 40.6 40.6 Fair value of pension Real estate funds 8.4 3.7 12.1 planassets 228.4 Other holdings 71.4 71.4 Fair value of pension plan assets 122.8 75.1 197.9 Shire Annual Report 2017 155 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 19.
Retirement and Other Benefit Programs continued The assets and liabilities of the Companys pension plans are valued using the following valuation methods: Investment category Valuation methodology Cash and cash These largely consist of a short-term investment fund, U. S. dollars and foreign currency.
The fair value of the short-term investment equivalents fund is based on the net asset value Government Values are based on quoted prices in an active market agency issues Corporate bonds Values are based on the valuation date in an active market Common stock Values are based on the closing prices on the valuation date in an active market Mutual funds Values are based on the net asset value of the units held in the respective fund which are obtained from active markets or as reported by the fund managers Collective trust funds Values are based on the net asset value of the units held at year end and hedge funds Real estate funds The value of these assets are either determined by the net asset value of the units held in the respective fund which are obtained from active markets or based on the net asset value of the underlying assets of the fund provided by the fund manager Other holdings These primarily consist of insurance contracts whose value is based on the underlying assets and other holdings valued primarily based on reputable pricing vendors that typically use pricing matrices or models Expected Pension and OPEB Plan Funding The Companys funding policy for its pension plans is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet legal funding requirements, plus any additional amounts that the Company may determine to be appropriate considering the funded status of the plans, tax deductibility, thecash flows generated by the Company, and other factors.
Volatility in the global financial markets could have an unfavorable impact onfuture funding requirements.
The Company had no obligation to fund its principal plans in the U. S. for the year ended December 31, 2017 and did not make any voluntary contributions for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016.
The Company is expected to make cash contributions of at least $13.0 million during 2018.
During 2017 and 2016, the Company contributed to its international plans $20.6 million and $7.1 million, respectively and expects to make cash contributions of at least $18.6 million during 2018.
Cash outflows related to OPEB plan were less than $1.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 and the Company expects to have less than $1.0 million cash outflows during 2018.
The Company continually reassesses the amount and timing of any discretionary contributions, which could be significant in any period.
The table below details the funded status percentage of the Companys pension plans as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 including certain plans that are unfunded in accordance with the guidelines of the Companys funding policy outlined above.
As of December 31, 2017 United States International Qualified Non-qualified Funded Unfunded plan plan plans plans Total $M $M $M $M $M Fair value of plan assets 259.7 n a 237.2 n a 496.9 PBO 412.1 31.5 430.8 187.1 1,061.5 Funded status percentage 63% n a 55% n a 47% As of December 31, 2016 United States International Qualified Non-qualified Funded Unfunded plan plan plans plans Total $M $M $M $M $M Fair value of plan assets 228.4 n a 197.9 n a 426.3 PBO 352.8 31.3 413.7 167.7 965.5 Funded status percentage 65% n a 48% n a 44% U. S. Defined Contribution Plans In addition to benefits provided under the pension and OPEB plans described above, the Company provides benefits under defined contribution plans.
The Companys most significant defined contribution plans are in the United States.
The Company recognized expenses related to U. S. defined contribution plans of $60.0 million, $68.1 million and $38.9 million during 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively.
156 Shire Annual Report 2017 The changes in Accumulated other comprehensive income loss AOCI, net of their related tax effects, for the year ended December 31, 2017 are as follows: Unrealized Foreign Pension holding gain Accumulated currency and other loss on other translation employee available-forHedging comprehensive adjustment benefits sale securities activities loss income $M $M $M $M $M As of January 1, 2017 1,505.4 5.2 6.6 6.4 1,497.6 Current period change: Other comprehensive income loss before reclassifications 2,785.0 33.4 75.2 0.6 2,893.0 Amounts reclassified from AOCI 0.7 13.9 5.8 20.4 Net current period other comprehensive income loss 2,785.0 32.7 61.3 6.4 2,872.6 As of December 31, 2017 1,279.6 27.5 67.9 1,375.0 The following is a summary of the amounts reclassified from AOCIto net income during the year ended December 31, 2017.
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 2017 Location of impact in $M Statements of Operations Pension and other employee benefits Amortization of actuarial loss 1.8 Net periodic benefit cost Curtailment gain 3.1 Cost of sales 1.3 Total before tax 0.6 Tax expense 0.7 Net of tax Available-for-sale securities Gain on available-for-sale securities 13.9 Other expense income, net 13.9 Total before tax Tax expense 13.9 Net of Tax Hedging activities Foreign exchange contracts 8.8 Cost of sales 8.8 Total before tax 3.0 Tax expense 5.8 Net of tax Total reclassifications for the period 20.4 Total net of tax The changes in AOCI, net of their related tax effects, for the year ended December 31, 2016 are as follows: Unrealized Foreign Pension holding gain Accumulated currency and other loss on other translation employee available-forHedging comprehensive adjustment benefits sale securities activities loss income $M $M $M $M $M As of January 1, 2016 182.1 1.7 183.8 Current period change: Other comprehensive loss income before reclassifications 1,323.3 38.3 8.3 9.9 1,266.8 Amounts reclassified from AOCI 43.5 3.5 47.0 Net current period other comprehensive loss income 1,323.3 5.2 8.3 6.4 1,313.8 As of December 31, 2016 1,505.4 5.2 6.6 6.4 1,497.6 Shire Annual Report 2017 157 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Loss continued The following is a summary of the amounts reclassified from AOCI to net income during the year ended December 31, 2016.
Amounts reclassified from AOCI 2016 Location of impact in $M Statements of Operations Pension and other employee benefits Curtailment gain 69.4 Integration and acquisition costs 69.4 Total before tax 25.9 Tax expense 43.5 Net of tax Losses on hedging activities Foreign exchange contracts 4.9 Cost of sales 4.9 Total before tax 1.4 Tax expense 3.5 Net of tax Total reclassifications for the period 47.0 Total net of tax 21.
Earnings Per Share The following table reconciles net income and loss and the weighted average ordinary shares outstanding for basic and diluted earnings per share EPS for the periods presented: 2017 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Income from continuing operations, net of taxes 4,253.5 603.5 1,337.5 Gain loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes 18.0 276.1 34.1 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share 4,271.5 327.4 1,303.4 Weighted average number of shares: Basic 906.5 770.1 590.4 Effect of dilutive shares: Share-based awards to employees 5.5 6.1 2.7 Diluted 912.0 776.2 593.1 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic Earnings from continuing operations 4.69 0.78 2.27 Earnings loss from discontinued operations 0.02 0.35 0.06 Earnings per Ordinary Share basic 4.71 0.43 2.21 Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted Earnings from continuing operations 4.66 0.77 2.26 Earnings loss from discontinued operations 0.02 0.35 0.06 Earnings per Ordinary Share diluted 4.68 0.42 2.20 Weighted average number of basic shares excludes shares purchased by the Employee Benefit Trust and those under the shares buy-back program, which are both presented by Shire as treasury stock.
Share-based awards to employees are calculated using the treasury method.
The share equivalents not included in the calculation of the diluted weighted average number of shares are shown below: 2017 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Share-based awards to employees 15.2 4.1 3.4 Certain stock options have been excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 because either their exercise prices exceeded Shires average share price during the calculation period, the required performance conditions were not satisfied as of the balance sheet date or their inclusion would have been antidilutive.
Taxation The reconciliation of income from continuing operations before The components of pre-tax income from continuing operations are income taxes and equity in earnings losses of equity method as follows: investees at the statutory tax rate to the provision for income taxes is shown in the table below: 2017 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M 2017 2016 2015 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Ireland 350.8 214.3 11.4 Income from continuing operations United States 625.2 75.3 975.8 before income taxes and equity in Rest of the world 917.4 347.1 421.4 losses earnings of equity method 1,893.4 486.1 1,385.8 investees 1,893.4 486.1 1,385.8 The provision for income taxes on continuing operations by 2017 2016 2015 % % % location of the taxing jurisdiction for the years ended December 31, 1 2017, 2016 and 2015 consisted of the following: Statutory tax rate 25.0 25.0 25.0 U. S. R&D credit 6.6 25.9 7.7 2017 2016 2015 2 Intra-group items 13.5 44.4 18.6 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Other permanent items 2.5 4.5 1.1 Current income taxes: U. S. Domestic Manufacturing Deduction 1.4 4.0 1.6 Ireland 46.6 5.2 0.8 Acquisition Related Costs 8.5 1.1 U. S. federal tax 373.8 318.6 191.7 Irish Treasury Operations 4.1 8.6 0.6 U. S. state and local taxes 55.8 30.2 17.3 Change in valuation allowance 0.5 7.9 1.0 Rest of the world 90.4 68.9 17.8 3 Difference in taxation rates 3.6 13.0 7.3 Total current taxes 566.6 422.9 227.6 Change in provisions for Deferred taxes: uncertain tax positions 2.7 1.5 0.4 Ireland 22.3 18.2 38.8 Prior year adjustment 0.1 1.0 1.6 U. S. federal tax 3,050.3 433.8 151.2 Change in fair value of contingent consideration 3.7 3.8 U. S. state and local taxes 260.1 74.1 1.7 Change in tax rates 1.2 5.1 0.9 Rest of the world 156.3 59.3 10.2 U. S. Tax Reform 130.3 Total deferred taxes 2,924.2 549.0 181.5 U. S. Transition Tax 4.8 Total income taxes 2,357.6 126.1 46.1 Provision for income taxes On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed the Tax Cuts and on continuing operations 124.5 25.9 3.3 Jobs Act Tax Act into legislation.
We have recorded a tax benefit 1 In addition to being subject to the Irish corporation tax rate of 25.0% in 2017, of $2.5 billion, related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets the Company is also subject to income tax in other territories in which the and liabilities offset by a tax expense of $90.0 million relating to the Company operates, including: Canada 15.0% : France 33.3% : Germany impact of the transition tax on the deemed repatriation of foreign 15.0% : Italy 24.0% : Japan 23.4% : Luxembourg 19.0% : the Netherlands 25.0% : Belgium 33.99% : Singapore 17.00% : Spain 25.0% : Sweden income.
Due to enactment late in the Companys annual reporting 22.0% : Switzerland 8.5% : United Kingdom 19.3% and the U. S. 35.0%.
period, the Company was unable to obtain all of the requisite The rates quoted represent the statutory federal income tax rates in each information and perform computations for all consequences of the territory, and do not include any state taxes or equivalents or surtaxes or Tax Act.
In addition, it is expected that significant guidance will be other taxes charged in individual territories, and do not purport to represent the effective tax rate for the Company in each territory.
issued that may change how the Company has computed the 2 Intra-group items principally relate to the effect of intra-territory eliminations, provisional amounts included in its annual financial statements for the pre-tax effect of which has been eliminated in arriving at the Companys the year ended December 31, 2017.
The Company will continue to consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes, assess the impact of the Tax Act during the measurement period noncontrolling interests, and equity in earnings losses of equity method investees.
The Companys intra-group items primarily arise from its acquisition and will record any adjustments to its provisional estimates as of third parties that result in income and expense being received and taxed in needed during 2018. different jurisdictions at various tax rates.
3 The expense from the difference in taxation rates reflects the impact of the The Company determines the amount of income tax expense or higher income tax rates in the United States offset by the impact of lower benefit allocable to continuing operations using the incremental foreign jurisdiction income tax rates.
The amount of income tax attributed to discontinued operations is disclosed in Note 8, Results of Discontinued Operations, in these consolidated financial statements.
Shire Annual Report 2017 159 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 22.
Taxation continued The Company recognizes interest and penalties accrued related As detailed in the income tax rate reconciliation above, the tounrecognized tax positions within income taxes.
During the Companys effective tax rate differs from the Irish statutory rate years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, the Company each year due to foreign taxes that are different than the Irish recognized a charge credit to income taxes of $14.2 million, statutory rate and certain operations that are subject to tax $4.2million and $0.8 million in interest and penalties and the incentives.
In addition, the effective tax rate can be impacted Company had a liability of $16.5 million, $30.8 million and eachperiod by certain discrete factors and events, which, in $26.5million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued 2017, included items related to U. S. tax reform.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions Deferred taxes The Company files income tax returns in the Republic of Ireland, The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities the U. S. both federal and state and various other jurisdictions and their balance sheet classifications, as of December 31, are seefootnote 1 to the table above for major jurisdictions.
With few asfollows: exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to income tax 2017 2016 examinations by tax authorities for years before 2013.
Tax Years ended December 31 $M $M authorities in various jurisdictions are in the process of auditing the Deferred tax assets: Companys tax returns for fiscal periods primarily after 2012, with Deferred revenue 3.5 16.8 the earliest being 2007: these tax audits cover primarily transfer Inventory & warranty provisions 64.2 88.7 pricing, but may include other areas.
Losses carried forward including tax credits 1,687.1 1,907.3 While tax audits remain open, the Company also considers it Provisions for sales deductions and reasonably possible that issues may be raised by tax authorities doubtfulaccounts 119.4 191.6 resulting in increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits, Intangible assets 50.3 79.7 however, an estimate of such an increase cannot be made.
Share-based compensation 93.3 137.5 A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of Excess of tax value over book value of assets 11.5 14.2 unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: Accruals and provisions 249.4 448.6 Other 26.2 78.5 2017 2016 2015 Gross deferred tax assets 2,304.9 2,962.9 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M Less: valuation allowance 635.7 569.4 Balance as of January 1 236.3 216.3 207.8 1,669.2 2,393.5 Increases based on tax positions Deferred tax liabilities: related to the current year 132.6 34.3 27.0 Intangible assets 5,501.2 9,073.4 Decreases based on tax positions Excess of book value over tax value taken in the current year 128.5 in inventory 9.6 150.3 Increases for tax positions taken Excess of book value over tax value in prior years 3.1 0.5 3.9 of assets and investments 650.0 1,304.2 Decreases for tax positions taken Other 67.8 91.6 in prior years 43.7 17.8 30.6 Net deferred tax liabilities 4,559.4 8,226.0 Acquisition related items 1.8 29.5 17.9 Decreases resulting from settlements with the taxing authorities 24.4 1.2 Balance sheet classifications: Decreases as a result of expiration Deferred tax assets non-current 188.8 96.7 of the statute of limitations 8.2 2.4 4.4 Deferred tax liabilities non-current 4,748.2 8,322.7 Foreign currency translation 4,559.4 8,226.0 1 adjustments 0.7 0.3 4.1 2 Balance as of December 31 190.5 236.3 216.3 As of December 31, 2017, the Company had a valuation allowance of $635.7 million 2016: $569.4 million: 2015: $416.1 million to 1 Foreign currency translation adjustments are recognized within Other reduce its deferred tax assets to estimated realizable value.
valuation allowances related primarily to operating losses, capital 2 As of December 31, 2017, approximately $185.0 million 2016: $227.0 million, 2015: $207.0 million of which would affect the effective rate if recognized.
losses, and tax-credit carry-forwards in Switzerland 2017: $200.0 million: 2016: $176.8 million: 2015: $131.5 million : U. S. 2017: There is no requirement to record any reserves or other $148.9 million: 2016: $155.1 million: 2015: $125.9 million : Ireland contingencies related to the receipt of the break fee from 2017: $22.3 million: 2016: $22.4 million: 2015: $22.2 million : and AbbViein2014.
The relevant tax return was submitted on other foreign tax jurisdictions 2017: $264.5 million: 2016: $215.1 September 23, 2015. million: 2015: $136.5 million.
The Company does not anticipate any material changes in the next12 months to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits recorded as of December 31, 2017.
As of the balance sheet date, the Company believes that its reserves for uncertain tax positions are adequate to cover the resolution of these audits.
However, theresolution of these audits could have a significant impact on thefinancial statements if the settlement differs from the amountreserved.
160 Shire Annual Report 2017 Management is required to exercise judgment in determining whether The Company does not provide for deferred taxes on the excess deferred tax assets will more likely than not be realized.
Avaluation ofthe financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign allowance is established where there is an expectation that on the subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration.
As of balance of probabilities management considers it is more likely than December 31, 2017, that excess totaled $14.4 billion 2016: $16.6 not that the relevant deferred tax assets will not berealized.
On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed tax reform assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management weighs legislation HR 1 which includes a broad range of tax reform all available positive and negative evidence including cumulative proposals affecting businesses, including the payment of a losses in recent years, projections of future taxable income, carry one-time tax or toll charge on previously unremitted earnings forward and carry back potential under relevant tax law, expiration ofcertain non-U.
Accordingly, the Company will no period of tax attributes, taxable temporary differences, and prudent longer assert that any of the earnings that will be taxed as part of and feasible tax-planning strategies.
the toll charge are indefinitely reinvested approximately $7.6 billion.
The net increase in valuation allowances of $66.3 million includes 23.
Segment Reporting i increases of $81.4 million relating to operating losses in various Shire comprises one operating and reportable segment engaged jurisdictions for which management considers that there is in the research, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, insufficient positive evidence related to the factors described distribution and sale of innovative specialist medicines to meet aboveto overcome negative evidence, such as cumulative losses significant unmet patient needs.
This is consistent with how the and expiration periods and therefore it is more likely than not that financial information is viewed for the purposes of evaluating the relevant deferred tax assets will not be realized in full, and performance, allocating resources, and planning and forecasting ii decreases of $15.1 million primarily related to U. S. state tax future periods and how the operations are managed by the losses, which based on the assessment of factors described Executive Committee Shires chief operating decision maker.
above now provides sufficient positive evidence to support the This segment is supported by several key functions: a Pipeline losses are more likely than not to be realized.
Committee, an In-Line Committee, a Technical Operations group As of December 31, 2017, based upon a consideration of the and a Corporate group.
The Pipeline Committee consists of R&D factors described above management believes it is more likely than and Corporate Development and is responsible for prioritizing not that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible theactivities towards progressing and acquiring development differences, net of the valuation allowances.
However, the amount programs across a variety of therapeutic areas.
The Technical of the deferred tax asset considered realizable could be adjusted Operations group is responsible for the Companys global supply inthe future if these factors are revised in future periods.
The In-line Committee focuses on commercializing marketed products and support of the development of the Companys The approximate tax effect of NOLs, capital losses and tax credit pipeline candidates.
The business is also supported bya simplified, carry-forwards as of December 31, are as follows: centralized corporate function group.
None of these functional groups meets all of the criteria to be considered an individual 2017 2016 operating segment.
Years ended December 31 $M $M U. S. federal tax 489.6 687.1 Geographic information Revenues based on the geographic location from which the U. S. state tax 140.3 170.7 saleoriginated : Republic of Ireland 29.4 45.1 Foreign tax jurisdictions 723.8 614.9 2017 2016 2015 R&D and other tax credits 303.9 389.5 Years ended December 31 $M $M $M 1,687.0 1,907.3 Ireland 55.5 41.6 14.1 United States 9,642.1 7,666.9 4,659.2 The approximate gross value of net operating losses NOLs Rest of the world 5,463.0 3,688.1 1,743.4 andcapital losses at December 31, 2017 is $11,137.5 million Total revenues 15,160.6 11,396.6 6,416.7 2016:$10,843.1 million.
The tax effected NOLs, capital losses andtax credit carry-forwards shown above have the following Long-lived assets comprise all non-current assets, excluding expiration dates: goodwill and intangible assets, deferred contingent consideration assets, deferred tax assets, investments and financial instruments December 31, 2017 based on their relevant geographic location.
$M 2017 2016 Within 1 year 1.4 Years ended December 31 $M $M Within 1 to 2 years 34.4 Ireland 94.0 41.2 Within 2 to 3 years 18.4 United States 4,603.0 6,449.4 Within 3 to 4 years 44.3 Austria 737.3 Within 4 to 5 years 50.1 Rest of the world 1,314.3 Within 5 to 6 years 31.8 Total revenues 6,748.6 6,574.6 After 6 years 919.5 Indefinitely 587.1 Shire Annual Report 2017 161 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 23.
Segment Reporting continued Material customers In the periods set out below, certain customers accounted for greater than 10% of the Companys Product sales: 2017 2016 2015 Product Product Product 2017 sales 2016 sales 2015 sales Years ended December 31 $M % $M % $M % AmerisourceBergen Corp 1,408.1 10 1,695.3 16 1,048.3 17 McKesson Corp. 1,333.1 9 1,336.7 12 1,044.1 17 Cardinal Health Inc. 1,079.2 7 1,052.2 10 796.9 13 Amounts outstanding in respect of these material customers were as follows: 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M AmerisourceBergen Corp 469.9 427.2 McKesson Corp. 512.4 312.9 Cardinal Health Inc. 325.3 278.4 In the periods set out below, Revenues by franchise were as follows.
In 2017, Immunology includes HAE from Genetic Diseases: prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with current year presentation.
Commitments and Contingencies Capital commitments Leases As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed to spend Future minimum lease payments under operating leases as of $328.2 million December 31, 2016: $100.5 million on capital projects.
December 31, 2017 are presented below: Baxter related tax indemnification Baxter International Inc. Baxter and Baxalta entered into a tax Operating matters agreement, effective on the date of Baxaltas separation leases from Baxter, which employs a direct tracing approach, or where $M direct tracing approach is not feasible, an allocation methodology, 2018 188.5 to determine which company is liable for pre-separation income tax 2019 164.8 items for U. S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.
With respect to 2020 155.2 tax liabilities that are directly traceable or allocated to Baxalta but 2021 146.6 for which Baxalta was not the primary obligor, Baxalta recorded a 2022 128.8 tax indemnification amount that would be due to Baxter upon Thereafter 795.8 Baxter discharging the associated tax liability to the taxing authority.
Legal and Other Proceedings The Company expenses legal costs when incurred.
The Company leases land, facilities, motor vehicles and certain equipment under operating leases expiring through 2032.
Lease The Company recognizes loss contingency provisions for probable and rental expense amounted to $167.6 million, $100.8 million and losses when management is able to reasonably estimate the loss.
$40.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and When the estimated loss lies within a range, the Company records 2015, respectively, which is predominately included in Cost of sales a loss contingency provision based on its best estimate of the and SG&A expenses in the Companys Consolidated Statement probable loss.
If no particular amount within that range is a better ofOperations.
estimate than any other amount, the minimum amount is recorded.
Estimates of losses may be developed before the ultimate loss is Letters of credit and guarantees known, and are therefore refined each accounting period as As of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, the Company additional information becomes known.
An outcome that deviates hadirrevocable standby letters of credit and guarantees with various from the Companys estimate may result in an additional expense banks and insurance companies totaling $224.8 million and$139.7 or release in a future accounting period.
As of December 31, 2017, million being the contractual amounts, respectively, providing provision for litigation losses, insurance claims and other disputes security for the Companys performance of various obligations.
Theseobligations are primarily in respect of the recoverability of insurance claims, lease obligations and supply commitments.
The Companys principal pending legal and other proceedings are disclosed below.
The outcomes of these proceedings are not Commitments always predictable and can be affected by various factors.
For Clinical testing those legal and other proceedings for which it is considered at least As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed to pay reasonably possible that a loss has been incurred, the Company approximately $1,409.9 million December 31, 2016: $1,037.4 discloses the possible loss or range of possible loss in excess of the million to contract vendors for administering and executing clinical recorded loss contingency provision, if any, where such excess is trials.
The timing of these payments is dependent upon actual both material and estimable.
services performed by the organizations as determined by patient enrollment levels and related activities.
MYDAYIS On October 12, 2017, Shire was notified that Teva Pharmaceuticals Contract manufacturing USA, Inc. had submitted an abbreviated new drug application As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed to pay ANDA to the FDA seeking permission to market a generic version approximately $467.2 million December 31, 2016: $528.9 million of MYDAYIS.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a inrespect of contract manufacturing.
The Company expects to lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of Delaware against pay$216.5 million of these commitments in 2018.
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. Actavis Laboratories, Inc. and Other purchasing commitments Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited collectively the Teva As of December 31, 2017, the Company had committed to entities.
No dates for a Markman hearing or trial have been set.
payapproximately $1,692.5 million December 31, 2016: Petitions to institute inter partes reviews IPRs against U. S. Patent $1,745.4million for future purchases of goods and services, numbers 8,846,100 and 9,173,857 were filed by KVK Tech.
Both of predominantly relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients these patents are listed in the Orange Book as covering MYDAYIS sourcing.
The Company expects to pay $960.0 million of these and are among the patents-in-suit in the infringement action commitments in2018.
brought against the Teva entities as noted above.
A decision on Investment commitments whether to institute the IPRs is expected on or before July 10, As of December 31, 2017, the Company had outstanding 2018.
If one or both IPRs are instituted, a decision on the merits commitments to purchase common stock and interests in isexpected on or before July 10, 2019. companies and partnerships, respectively, for amounts totaling $153.5 million December 31, 2016: $76.4 million which may all bepayable in 2018, depending on the timing of capital calls.
Theinvestment commitments include additional funding to certainvariable interest entities VIEs for which Shire is not theprimary beneficiary.
Shire Annual Report 2017 163 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 25.
Legal and Other Proceedings continiued In April 2012, Shire was notified that Mylan had submitted an LIALDA ANDAunder the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market In May 2010, Shire was notified that Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Inc. Zydus had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Middle District seeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
A Markman hearing took place on the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District December 22, 2014.
A Markman ruling was issued on March 23, Court for the District of Delaware against Zydus and Cadila 2015.
Following a four-day bench trial in September 2016 in the Healthcare Limited, doing business as Zydus Cadila.
A Markman U. S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, the court hearing took place on January 29, 2015 and a Markman ruling was handed down a ruling that Mylans proposed generic version issued on July 28, 2015.
A trial took place between March 28, 2016 ofLIALDA infringes claims 1 and 3 of the Orange Book listed patent for LIALDA.
In connection with this finding of infringement, and April 1, 2016.
On September 16, 2016 the court issued its the court also entered an injunction prohibiting Mylan from making, ruling finding that the proposed generic product would not infringe using, selling, offering for sale and or importing their proposed the asserted claims.
Shire appealed the ruling to the Court of ANDA product before the expiration of the patent June 8, 2020 Appeals for the Federal Circuit CAFC.
On May 9, 2017, the CAFC and requiring that the approval date for their ANDA be on or after affirmed the ruling of the district court.
Zydus ANDA has been the expiration of the patent.
On June 14, 2017, the U. S. District approved and the generic product is now available in the U. S. Court for the Middle District of Florida granted Mylans Motion for In February 2012, Shire was notified that Osmotica Pharmaceutical Reconsideration and entered judgment of non-infringement.
Shire Corporation Osmotica had submitted an ANDA under the filed an appeal with the Court of Appeals of the Federal Circuit on Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market a generic July 7, 2017.
No date for oral argument has been set.
Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a In March 2015, Shire was notified that Amneal had submitted an lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking permission to market against Osmotica.
A Markman hearing took place on August 22, a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the requisite 45 day period, 2013 and a Markman ruling was issued on September 25, 2014.
Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Court for the District of New The court issued an Order on February 27, 2015 in which all dates Jersey against Amneal, Amneal Pharmaceuticals of New York, LLC in the scheduling order were stayed.
Osmoticas ANDA was and Amneal Pharmaceuticals Co. India Pvt.
Ltd. A Markman withdrawn as of March 31, 2017 and the case was dismissed.
hearing took place on July 25, 2016.
A Markman ruling was issued In March 2012, Shire was notified that Watson Laboratories on August 2, 2016.
No trial date has been set.
Inc. -Florida had submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman In September 2015, Shire was notified that Lupin Ltd. had Actseeking permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
submitted an ANDA under the Hatch-Waxman Act seeking Within the requisite 45-day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. permission to market a generic version of LIALDA.
Within the District Court for the Southern District of Florida against Watson requisite 45 day period, Shire filed a lawsuit in the U. S. District Laboratories Inc. -Florida and Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Courtfor the District of Maryland against Lupin Ltd. Lupin Watson Pharma, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. collectively, Pharmaceuticals Inc. Lupin Inc. and Lupin Atlantis Holdings SA.
Watson were subsequently added as defendants.
A trial took AMarkman hearing originally scheduled to take place on place in April 2013 and on May 9, 2013 the trial court issued a November 10, 2016, was cancelled and has not yet been decision finding that the proposed generic product infringes the rescheduled.
patent-in-suit and that the patent is not invalid.
Watson appealed the trial courts ruling to the CAFC and a hearing took place on VANCOCIN December 2, 2013.
The ruling of the CAFC was issued on March On April 6, 2012, ViroPharma Incorporated ViroPharma received a 28, 2014 overruling the trial court on the interpretation of two claim notification that the United States Federal Trade Commission FTC terms and remanding the case for further proceedings.
Shire was conducting an investigation into whether ViroPharma had petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari which was engaged in unfair methods of competition with respect to granted on January 26, 2015.
The Supreme Court also vacated VANCOCIN which Shire acquired in January 2014.
Following the theCAFC decision and remanded the case to the CAFC for further divestiture of VANCOCIN in August 2014, Shire retained certain consideration in light of the Supreme Courts recent decision in liabilities including any potential liabilities related to the VANCOCIN Teva v. Sandoz.
On June 3, 2015, the CAFC reaffirmed their citizen petition.
previous decision to reverse the District Courts claims On August 3, 2012, and September 8, 2014, ViroPharma and Shire construction and remanded the case to the U. S. District Court for respectively received Civil Investigative Demands from the FTC the Southern District of Florida.
A trial was held on January 25-27, requesting additional information related to this matter.
A ruling was issued on March 28, 2016 upholding the validity fully cooperated with the FTCs investigation.
of the patent and finding that Watsons proposed ANDA product infringes the patent-in-suit.
Watson appealed the ruling to the On February 7, 2017, the FTC filed a Complaint against Shire CAFC and oral argument took place on October 5, 2016.
The alleging that ViroPharma engaged in conduct in violation of U. S. CAFC issued a ruling on February 10, 2017 reversing the trial antitrust laws arising from a citizen petition ViroPharma filed in courts ruling of infringement and remanding the case to the lower 2006 related to Food & Drug Administrations policy for evaluating court for entry of a ruling of non-infringement.
On May 18, 2017, bioequivalence for generic versions of VANCOCIN.
The complaint thelower court entered judgment of non-infringement.
seeks equitable relief, including an injunction and disgorgement.
The Company filed a motion to dismiss on April 10, 2017.
At this time, Shire is unable to predict the outcome or duration ofthis case.
164 Shire Annual Report 2017 ELAPRASE Old Shire has issued one income access share to the Income On September 24, 2014, Shires Brazilian affiliate, Shire Access Trust IAS Trust, which is held by the trustee of the IAS Trust Farmaceutica Brasil Ltda, was served with a lawsuit brought by Trustee.
The mechanics of the arrangements are as follows: theState of Sao Paulo and in which the Brazilian Public Attorneys i I f a dividend is announced or declared by Shire plc on its office has intervened alleging that Shire is obligated to provide ordinary shares, an amount is paid by Old Shire by way of a certain medical care including ELAPRASE for an indefinite period dividend on the income access share to the Trustee, and such at no cost to patients who participated in ELAPRASE clinical trials amount is paid by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders who in Brazil, and seeking recoupment to the Brazilian government for have elected to receive dividends under these arrangements.
amounts paid on behalf of these patients to date, and moral The dividend which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc to damages associated with these claims.
its ordinary shareholders will be reduced by an amount equal On May 6, 2016, the trial court judge ruled on the case and to the amount paid to its ordinary shareholders by the Trustee.
dismissed all the claims under the class action, which was ii I f the dividend paid on the income access share and on-paid appealed.
On February 20, 2017, the Court of Appeals in Sao by the Trustee to ordinary shareholders is less than the total Paulo issued the final decision on merit in favor of Shire and amount of the dividend announced or declared by Shire plc on dismissed all the claims under the class action.
On July 12, 2017, its ordinary shares, Shire plc will be obliged to pay a dividend the Public Prosecutor filed an appeal addressed to the Supreme on the relevant ordinary shares equivalent to the amount of the Court.
During the last quarter of 2017, the State of Sao Paulo filed shortfall.
In such a case, any dividend paid on the ordinary appeals addressed to the Superior Court of Justice and to the shares will generally be subject to Irish withholding tax at the Supreme Court.
rate of 20.0% or such lower rate as may be applicable under 26.
Shareholders Equity exemptions from withholding tax contained in Irish law.
Authorized common stock iii A n ordinary shareholder is entitled to make an income access The authorized stock of Shire plc as of December 31, 2017, was share election such that he she will receive his her dividends 1,500,000,000 ordinary shares and 2 subscriber ordinary shares.
which would otherwise be payable by Shire plc under these Dividends arrangements from Old Shire.
This can be done by submitting Under Jersey law, Shire plc is entitled to fund payments of an IAS arrangement election form containing information on dividends from any source other than a capital redemption reserve the participating shareholders pursuant to Shire plcs Articles or nominal capital account subject to the Directors authorizing of Association.
thedistribution making a solvency statement in the prescribed The ADS Depositary has made an election on behalf of all holders statutory form.
As of December 31, 2017, Shire plcs distributable of ADSs such that they will receive dividends from Old Shire under reserves were approximately $4.2 billion.
the income access share arrangements.
Dividends paid by Old Treasury stock Shire under the income access share arrangements will not, under The Company records the purchase of its own shares by the current legislation, be subject to any UK or Irish withholding taxes.
EBTand under the share buy-back program as a reduction of If a holder of ADSs does not wish to receive dividends from Old shareholders equity based on the price paid for the shares.
As Shire under the income access share arrangements, he she must ofDecember 31, 2017, the EBT held 0.5 million in ordinary shares withdraw his her ordinary shares from the ADS program prior to 2016: 0.5 million: 2015: 0.6 million and 0.2 million ADSs 2016: the dividend record date set by the ADS Depositary and request 0.2million: 2015: 0.2 million and shares held under the share delivery of the Shire plc ordinary shares.
This will enable him her buy-back program were 7.4 million ordinary shares 2016: 8.0 toreceive dividends from Shire plc.
During the years ended December 31, It is the expectation, although there can be no certainty, that Old 2017 and 2016 the Company did not purchase any shares either Shire will distribute dividends on the income access share to the through the EBT or under any share buy-back program.
Trustee for the benefit of all ordinary shareholders who make an Income Access Share Arrangements income access share election in an amount equal to what would Shire has put into place income access share arrangements have been such ordinary shareholders entitlement to dividends whichenable ordinary shareholders, other than ADS holders, to from Shire plc in the absence of the income access share election.
choose whether they receive their dividends from Shire plc, a If any dividend paid on the income access share and or paid to company tax resident in the Republic of Ireland, or from Shire theordinary shareholders is less than such ordinary shareholders Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Old Shire, a Shire group company entitlement to dividends from Shire plc in the absence of the tax resident in the UK.
income access share election, the dividend on the income access share will be allocated pro rata among the ordinary shareholders and Shire plc will pay the balance to these ordinary shareholders by way of dividend.
In such circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including any Irish withholding tax consequences.
Shire Annual Report 2017 165 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 26.
Shareholders Equity continued The principal terms and conditions of SARs and PSAs under the PSP Shire will be able to suspend or terminate these arrangements Parts A and B are as follows: i the contractual life of SARs isseven atany time, in which case the full Shire plc dividend will be paid years, ii the vesting period of SARs and PSAs granted toemployees directly by Shire plc to those ordinary shareholders including the below the level of Executive Vice President allows forgraded vesting Depositary who have made an income access share election.
over three years, and iii awards granted to the level of Executive Insuch circumstances, there will be no grossing up by Shire plc in Director and Executive Vice President cliff vest after three years, of respect of, and Old Shire and Shire plc will not compensate those which awards to the level of Executive Director contain performance ordinary shareholders for, any adverse consequences including conditions based on growth in Non GAAP adjusted return on any Irish withholding tax consequences.
invested capital Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation and amortization Non GAAP EBITDA.
In the year ended December 31, 2017, Old Shire paid dividends In 2014, the Company granted PSAs under the PSP to employees at totaling $245.6 million 2016: $150.6 million: 2015: $127.7 million Executive Vice President level and to a select group of senior onthe income access share to the Trustee in an amount equal employees, which are exercisable subject to performance and tothe dividend ordinary shareholders would have received from service criteria.
These PSAs cliff vested after three years and contain Shireplc.
performance conditions as explained above.
Share-based Compensation Plans Since February 28, 2015, the Company has granted awards under Total share-based compensation recorded by the Company during the Shire Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP.
Under the LTIP, the the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 by line item is Company grants stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs, as follows: restricted stock units RSUs and performance share units PSUs over ordinary shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and 2017 2016 2015 employees.
The PSUs granted under the LTIP and SARs granted Years ended December 31 $M $M $M to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and Cost of sales 35.6 23.3 7.6 service criteria.
RSUs granted under the LTIP and SARs granted to Research and development 27.3 46.9 28.6 all other employees are exercisable subject only to service criteria.
Selling, general and administrative 97.2 67.1 37.4 The principal terms and conditions of SARs, RSUs and PSUs Integration and acquisition costs 14.8 181.2 granted under the LTIP are as follows: i the contractual life of Reorganization costs 26.7 SARs is seven years, ii the vesting period of SARs and RSUs Total 174.9 318.5 100.3 granted to employees below the level of Executive Vice President Less tax 43.4 85.3 28.4 allows for graded vesting, and iii all SARs granted to Executive 131.5 233.2 71.9 Directors and employees at Executive Vice President level and all PSUs granted cliff vest after three years and, with the exception During the year ended December 31, 2017, the Company incurred ofSARs granted to employees at Executive Vice President level, total expense of $61.6 million 2016: $223.1 million, 2015: $nil contain performance conditions based on Product sales and Non related to replacement awards held by Baxalta employees as GAAP EBITDA targets: a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin is further described below.
This includes integration related expenses also used at the end of the three year performance period to of $14.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2017 2016: assess the underlying performance of the Company before $171.0 million, 2015: $nil, primarily due to the acceleration of determining the final vesting levels for awards with performance unrecognized expense associated with certain employees conditions.
In addition, a further two year holding period will impacted by the integration.
applyto all awards granted to Executive Directors post vesting.
There were no capitalized share-based compensation costs as The Company also operates a Global Employee Stock Purchase ofDecember 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015.
Plan and UK Irish Sharesave Plans.
As of December 31, 2017, $218.3 million 2016: $244.2 million, Replacement Awards Issued to Baxalta Employees 2015: $115.3 million of total unrecognized compensation cost In connection with the acquisition of Baxalta and pursuant to the relating to non-vested awards is expected to be recognized over merger agreement associated with the acquisition, outstanding aperiod of three years.
Baxalta equity awards held by Baxalta employees or employees ofBaxter were cancelled and exchanged for Shire equity awards.
Share-based compensation plans The outstanding Baxalta equity awards consisted primarily of stock Prior to February 28, 2015, the Company granted stock-settled options and RSUs and hence were replaced with Shires stock share appreciation rights SARs and performance share awards options and RSUs.
The replacement Shire awards generally have PSAs over ordinary shares and ADSs to Executive Directors and the same terms and conditions including vesting as the former employees under the Shire Portfolio Share Plan PSP Parts A and Baxalta awards for which they were exchanged.
The SARs and PSAs granted under the PSP Parts A and B to Executive Directors are exercisable subject to performance and service criteria.
Substantially all SARs and PSAs granted to employees are exercisable subject only to service criteria.
166 Shire Annual Report 2017 The value of the replacement share-based awards granted was designed to generally preserve both the intrinsic value and the fair value of the award immediately prior to the acquisition.
Following the acquisition, the Company records share-based compensation expense associated with the acquisition-date fair value of acquired Baxalta employees replacement options and RSUs that is attributable to post-acquisition service requirements, as well as share-based compensation expense for post-acquisition service requirements associated with certain remaining unvested Baxter share-based awards held by the acquired Baxalta employees.
Theportions of the acquisition-date fair values of the awards that are attributable to post-combination service are recognized over the remaining service period of the awards.
The following awards were outstanding as of December 31, 2017: Expiration Number of period from Compensation type awards date of issue Vesting period 3 years graded vesting and or 3 years cliff vesting subject to performance Stock-settled SARs SARs 15,693,527 7 years criteria for Executive Directors only 6 months UK Irish Sharesave Plans Stock options 184,647 after vesting 3 or 5 years On vesting Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock options 315,646 date 1 to 5 years Baxalta Replacement Options Stock options 9,425,001 10 years 3 years graded vesting Stock-settled SARs and stock options 25,618,821 3 years graded vesting, 3 years cliff vesting subject to performance criteria for Executive Directors and certain senior RSUs, PSUs and PSAs RSUs, PSUs and PSAs 3,258,380 3 years employees only Baxalta Replacement RSUs RSU 701,340 3 years 3 years graded vesting RSUs PSUs and PSAs 3,959,720 Stock-settled SARs and stock options UK Irish Sharesave Plans Sharesave Plans SARs under LTIP and PSP Part A Options granted under the Sharesave Plans are granted with an Stock-settled share appreciation rights SARs granted to Executive exercise price equal to 80% and 75% of the mid-market price on Directors are exercisable subject to service and performance criteria.
the day before invitations are issued to UK and Ireland employees, respectively.
Employees may enter into three or five year savings In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the contracts.
LTIP, performance criteria are based on Product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, with a Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
Shire Global Employee Stock Purchase Plan Stock Purchase Plan In respect of any award made to Executive Directors under the Under the Stock Purchase Plan, options are granted with an PSP Part A, performance criteria are based on growth in Non exercise price equal to 85% of the fair market value of a share on GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
These performance the day before the enrollment date the first day of the offering measures are an important measure of the Companys ability to period or the day before the exercise date the last day of the meet the strategic objective to grow value for all of its stakeholders.
offering period, whichever is the lower.
Employees agree to save for a period up to 12 months.
Awards granted to employees below Executive Director level are not subject to performance conditions and are only subject to Baxalta Replacement Options service conditions.
The replacement stock options were issued consistent with the vesting conditions of the replaced award as explained above.
Once awards have vested, participants will have until the seventh Replacement stock options had contractual terms of 10 years from anniversary of the date of grant to exercise their awards.
The majority of stock options outstanding vested in one-third increments over a three year period, although certain awards cliff vest or have longer or shorter service periods.
The fair value on the acquisition date attributable to postcombination service, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining vesting period.
Shire Annual Report 2017 167 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 27.
Share-based Compensation Plans continued A summary of the status of the Companys SARs and stock options including replacement awards as of December 31, 2017 and of the related activity during the period then ended is presented below: Weighted average exercise Intrinsic price Number of value Years ended December 31, 2017 shares M Outstanding as of beginning of period 38.98 21,869,833 Granted 45.11 9,865,956 Exercised 34.99 3,312,318 Forfeited 44.00 2,804,650 Outstanding as of end of period 39.75 25,618,821 31.4 Exercisable as of end of period 35.11 13,329,159 29.3 Excluded from the table above are replacement stock options issued to Baxter employees as part of the acquisition of Baxalta.
The Company issued 8.8 million stock options to Baxter employees on June 3, 2016, out of which 6.2 million and 6.2 million were outstanding and exercisable, respectively, as of December 31, 2017.
The weighted average grant date fair value of SARs and stock options granted in the year ended December 31, 2017 was 9.72 2016: 8.25: 2015: 10.36.
SARs and stock options including Baxalta Replacement Options, outstanding as of December 31, 2017, have the following characteristics: Weighted Weighted Weighted average average Average exercise price exercise price Exercise remaining of awards Number of of awards prices contractual outstanding awards exercisable Number of awards outstanding term Years exercisable 2,373,820 9.27-28.00 2.4 24.47 2,367,984 24.48 9,537,750 28.01-40.00 6.3 33.64 8,010,506 33.30 13,707,251 40.01-70.48 5.5 46.65 2,950,669 48.55 25,618,821 13,329,159 RSUs, PSUs and PSAs RSUs and PSUs under LTIP and PSAs under PSP Part B PSUs and PSAs granted to Executive Directors and employees at Executive Vice President level are exercisable subject to certain performance and service criteria.
RSUs and PSAs granted to all other employees are not subject to performance criteria and are only subject to service conditions.
The performance criteria for PSUs granted under the LTIP is based on Product sales and Non GAAP EBITDA targets, typically with aNonGAAP Adjusted ROIC underpin.
The performance criteria for PSAs under the PSP Part B is based on growth in Non GAAP Adjusted ROIC and Non GAAP EBITDA.
168 Shire Annual Report 2017 Baxalta Replacement RSUs Valuation methodologies The replacement RSUs were issued consistent with the vesting The Company estimates the fair value of its share-based awards conditions of the replaced award as explained above and using a Black-Scholes valuation model.
Key input assumptions generally continue to vest in one-third increments over a three-year used to estimate the fair value of share-based awards include the period.
The fair value on the acquisition date attributable to grant price of the award, the expected stock-based award term, post-combination service, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, is volatility of the Companys share price, the risk-free rate and the recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the remaining Companys dividend yield.
The Company believes that the vesting period.
valuation technique and the approach utilized to develop the underlying assumptions are appropriate in estimating the fair A summary of the status of the Companys RSUs, PSUs and PSAs values of Shires stock-based awards.
Estimates of fair value are as of December 31, 2017 and of the related activity during the not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately period then ended is presented below: realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original Weighted Weighted estimates of fair value made by the Company.
average average Number grant date remaining The fair value of share awards granted was estimated using the RSUs, PSUs and PSAs of shares fair value life following assumptions: Outstanding as of beginning of period 3,976,657 41.31 Weighted Weighted Granted 2,520,239 45.38 average average grant date remaining Exercised 1,779,205 43.23 Years ended December 31 2017 fair value life Forfeited 757,971 44.99 Risk-free interest rate 0.4-1.9% 0.29-1.6% 0.6-1.8% Outstanding as of end Expected dividend yield 0.3-0.6% 0.3-0.5% 0.2-0.4% ofperiod 3,959,720 42.33 4.9 Expected life 1-3.88 years 1-4 years 1-4 years Exercisable as of end of period N A Volatility 25-29% 26-29% 23-26% Forfeiture rate 0% 5-7% 5-7% Excluded from the table above are replacement RSUs issued to Baxter employees as part of the acquisition of Baxalta.
The The following assumptions were used to value share-based Company issued 0.5 million RSUs to Baxter employees on June 3, awards: 2016, out of which $nil were outstanding as of December 31, 2017. risk-free interest rate for awards granted over ADSs, the Exercises of share-based awards U. S. Federal Reserve treasury constant maturities rate with a The total intrinsic values of share-based awards exercised, term consistent with the expected life of the award is used.
including those held by Baxter employees, for the years ended Forawards granted over ordinary shares, the yield on UK December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $147.1 million, government bonds with a term consistent with the expected $214.6million and $198.8 million, respectively.
The total cash lifeof the award is used: received as a result of share option exercises for the period ended expected dividend yield measured as the average annualized December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 was approximately $134.1 dividend estimated to be paid by the Company over the million, $169.2million and $16.6 million, respectively.
In connection expected life of the award as a percentage of the share price with these exercises, the tax benefit credited to additional paid-in atthe grant date: capital for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 expected life estimated based on the contractual term of was $nil, $8.8million and $31.6 million, respectively.
With the theawards and the effects of employees expected exercise adoption of a new accounting standard on accounting for andpost-vesting employment termination behavior: stock-based compensation, effective January 1, 2017, excess tax expected volatility measured using historical daily price benefits were recognized as a component of Income tax expense changes of the Companys share price over the respective rather than Additional paid-in capital.
expected life of the share-based awards at the date of the award: and The Company will settle future awards with either newly listed forfeiture rate estimated using historical trends of the number ordinary shares or with shares held in the EBT.
The number of of awards forfeited prior to vesting.
Upon the 2017 adoption of a shares that the EBT will purchase in 2018 is dependent on the new rule on accounting for stock-based compensation, the number of awards granted and exercised during the year and Company elected to account for forfeitures in relation to service Shireplcs share price.
As of December 31, 2017, the EBT held conditions as they occur.
As such, the estimated forfeiture rate 0.5million ordinary shares and 0.2 million ADSs.
Shire Annual Report 2017 169 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued The tax matters agreement governs Baxter and Baxaltas and now 28.
Agreements and Transactions with Baxter the Companys respective rights, responsibilities and obligations In connection with Baxaltas separation from Baxter on July 1, after the distribution with respect to taxes for any tax period ending 2015, Baxalta and Baxter entered into several separation-related on or before the distribution date, as well as tax periods beginning agreements that provided a framework for Baxaltas relationship before and ending after the distribution date.
In addition, the tax with Baxter after the separation.
These agreements, among others, matters agreement addresses the allocation of liability for taxes included a manufacturing and supply agreement, a transition that were incurred as a result of restructuring activities undertaken services agreement and a tax matters agreement.
to effectuate the distribution and provides for Baxalta to indemnify Under the terms of the manufacturing and supply agreement, the Baxter against any tax liabilities resulting from Baxaltas action or Company manufactures certain products and materials and sells inaction that causes the merger-related transactions to be taxable.
them to Baxter at an agreed-upon price reflecting the Companys Net tax-related indemnification liabilities as of December 31, 2017 cost plus a mark-up for certain products and materials.
The associated with the tax matters agreement with Baxter are Company reported revenues associated with the manufacturing discussed in Note 24, Commitments and Contingencies, of these and supply agreement with Baxter during the year ended consolidated financial statements.
December 31, 2017 and 2016 of approximately $137.3 million and As of December 31, 2017, the Company had total amounts due $81.0 million, respectively.
The 2016 reported revenues were for from or to Baxter of $103.1 million 2016: $189.0 million reported the period from June 3, 2016 acquisition date through December inPrepaid expenses and other current assets, $63.2 million 2016: 31, 2016.
$72.0 million reported in Other current liabilities and $59.6 million Under the terms of the transition services agreement, the 2016: $92.0 million reported in Other non-current liabilities.
Company and Baxter provide various services to each other on 29.
Auditor remuneration aninterim, transitional basis.
The services provided by Baxter to the Company include certain finance, information technology, The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the scope human resources, quality, supply chain and other administrative andresults of the audit and non-audit services, including tax services and functions, and are generally provided on a cost-plus advisory and compliance services, provided by the Companys basis.
Certain of these services extend through June 30, 2018.
Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte LLP, and TheCompany reported Selling, general and administrative thecost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity expenses associated with the transition services agreement with oftheRegistered Public Accountants.
In recognition of the Baxter during the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 of importance ofmaintaining the independence of Deloitte LLP, approximately $52.3 million and $54.0 million, respectively.
aprocess for pre-approval has been in place since July 1, 2002 The2016 reported expenses were for the period from June 3, and has continued through to the end of the period covered by 2016acquisition date through December 31, 2016. thisAnnualReport.
For a certain portion of Baxaltas non U. S. operations, the legal The following table provides an analysis of the amount paid to the transfer of net assets from Baxter had not occurred by the June 3, Companys Independent Registered Public Accountants, Deloitte 2016 acquisition date due to the time required to transfer marketing LLP, all fees having been pre-approved by the Audit, Compliance authorizations and other regulatory requirements in each of these &Risk Committee.
Under the terms of the international commercial operations agreement with Baxter, the Company is responsible for 2017 2016 Years ended December 31 $M $M the business activities conducted by Baxter on its behalf, and is subject to the risks and entitled to the benefits generated by these Audit fees 14.7 14.7 1 operations and assets.
As a result, the related assets and liabilities Audit related fees 1.6 1.0 and results of operations are reported in the Companys 2 Tax fees 0.3 consolidated financial statements following the acquisition of 3 All other fees 5.6 18.9 Baxalta.
The majority of these operations were transferred to the Total fees 21.9 34.9 Company on December 31, 2016.
Net sales related to these operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $nil 2016: 1 Audit related fees consisted of audit work only the Independent Registered Public Accountant can reasonably be expected to perform, such as statutory $101.0 million.
The outstanding balance of the assets and liabilities audits or procedures relating to regulatory filings.
related to these operations was $nil as of December 31, 2017.
As 2 Tax fees consisted principally of assistance with matters related to of December 31, 2016 the assets and liabilities of these operations compliance and advice in various tax jurisdictions.
consisted of $11.0 million of inventories, which were reported in 3 All other fees in 2017 relate to the continuation and completion of projects already under way at Baxalta prior to its acquisition by the Company in June Inventories on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, other assets of 2016.
A comprehensive review and reorganization of these services was $50.0 million, which were reported as Prepaid expenses and other performed following the acquisition date to ensure the continued current assets, and liabilities of $3.0 million, which were reported in independence of Deloitte LLP as auditors for the Company.
List of subsidiaries Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Albania Sh.
p. k. Albania Ordinary ALL100.00 Rr: Sami Frasheri, Kompleksi T. I.
B, Floor 1, 10 000 Tirana, Albania Baxalta Argentina S. A. U. Argentina AR$ 1.00 Ordinary Entre Rios 1632, Olivos, Buenos Aires, Argentina Shire Human Genetic Therapies S. A. Argentina ARS1.00 Ordinary Calle Olga Cossettini 263 3 piso UF 21, Dique IV Puerto Madero C1107CCF, Buenos Aires, Argentina Baxalta Australia Pty.
Ltd. Australia NPV Shares Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street 39th floor, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Farboud Pty Ltd Australia AUD1.00 Ordinary Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street 39th floor, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Fibrotech Therapeutics Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street 39th floor, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Shire Australia Pty Limited Australia AUD Ordinary no par value Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street 39th floor, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Viropharma Pty Ltd Australia AUD Ordinary no par value Grosvenor Place, 225 George Street 39th floor, Sydney, NSW 2000, Australia Baxalta Innovations GmbH Austria EUR 36,336,417.08 Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Baxter AG Austria EUR 1 Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Shire Austria GmbH Austria 35,000.00 Equity Interest Industriestrasse 67, 1221 Vienna, Austria Shire Intellectual Property 2 SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Chancery House, High Street, Bridgetown, Barbados Shire Intellectual Property SRL Barbados US$1.00 Common Chancery House, High Street, Bridgetown, Barbados Baxalta Belgium Manufacturing S. A. Belgium EUR 2.43622 Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, 7860 Lessines, Belgium Baxalta Belgium SPRL Belgium EUR 0.77173 Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, 7860 Lessines, Belgium Baxalta Services Europe SPRL Belgium EUR 18.55 Boulevard Ren Branquart 80, 7860 Lessines, Belgium Shire Belgium BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary Rue Montoyer 47, 1000 Brussels, Belgium Shire Services BVBA Belgium 1.00 Ordinary Rue Montoyer 47, 1000 Brussels, Belgium Shire Holdings Limited Bermuda 1.00 Ordinary H. P. House, 21 Laffan Street, Hamilton HM 09, Bermuda Viropharma Holdings Limited Bermuda US$1.00 Ordinary Canons Court, 22 Victoria Street, Hamilton, 12, Bermuda Shire Farmacutica Brasil Ltda Brazil BRL1.00 Ordinary Headquarters Rochaver Corporate Towers, Avenida das Naes Unidas, 14.171 Torre A, 5 andar conj.
501, 502, 503 e 504, CEP, 04794-000 So Paulo SP, Brazil Baxalta Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria BGN 375,001 Common 45 Bulgaria Blvd.
Triaditza District, Stolichna Municipality, Sofia Region, 1404 Sofia, Bulgaria Shire Bulgaria EOOD Bulgaria Ordinary BGL 1.00 51B Bulgaria blvd.
floor 4, 1404 Sofia, Triaditza district, Stolichna Municipality, Sofia City Region, Bulgaria Baxalta Canada Corporation Canada CAD Common Bay Adelaide Centre, 22 Adelaide St W, Suite 3800, no par value Toronto, Ontario M5H 4E3, Canada NPS Holdings Company Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 800 P. O.
Box 997, no par value Halifax NS B3J 2X2, Canada NPS Pharma Canada Inc. Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 800, P. O.
Box 997, no par value Halifax NS B3J 2X2, Canada Shire IP Services Corporation Canada CAD Common 1959 Upper Water Street, Suite 900, P. O.
Box 997, no par value Halifax NS B3J 2X2, Canada Shire Pharma Canada ULC Canada CAD Class A Common 1200 Waterfront Centre no par value 200 Burrard Street P. O.
Box 48600 Vancouver, BC V7X 1T2, Canada Shire 2005 Investments Limited Cayman Islands 1.00 Ordinary Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309G T, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1 1104, Cayman Islands Shire Finance Limited Cayman Islands US$1.00 Founder Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309G T, Ugland House, South Church Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, KY1 1104, Cayman Islands Shire Chile SpA Chile Chilean Peso Ordinary Miraflores 222, piso 28, comuna fide Santiago, Chile No Par Value Shire BioScience Shanghai Co. Ltd. China Equity Interest Room 1706, 17 F, Building 1, No.
18 Taigu Road, China Shanghai Pilot Free Trade Zone Shire Hong Kong Limited China Ordinary Shares 1401 Hutchison House, 10 Harcourt Road, Hong Kong no par value Shire Annual Report 2017 171 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals China 140,000.00 Equity Interest Room 5120, 51st Floor, Raffles Centre, 268 XiZang Road, Consultancy Co. Ltd. HuangPu District, Shanghai, China Baxalta Colombia S. A. S. Colombia COP $1.000 Common Transversal 23 No.
97-73 Piso 6, Bogota, Colombia Shire Biotech Costa Rica, S. R. L. Costa Rica CRC100.00 Ordinary 3er piso, Centro Corporativo Internacional Paseo Colon San Jose, Costa Rica Shire drutvo s ograni enom Croatia HRK20,000.00 Ordinary Hektoroviceva ulica 2, 10 000 Zagreb, Croatia odgovorno u za trgovinu i usluge SG Biotech Limited Cyprus Class A shares EUR 1.00 Dimokritou, 15 Panaretos Eliana Complex, Flat office 104, 51.00% Potamos Gemasogeias, Limassol, 4041, Cyprus Class B shares EUR 1.00 49.00% Shire Czech s. r. o. Czech Republic CZK K 1,000 capital Karla Englise 3201 6, Smichov, 15000 Prague 5, Czech Republic Shire Denmark A S Denmark DKK kr1,000 Common Larsbjrnstrde 3, 1454 Kbenhavn K, Denmark Shire Biotech Denmark ApS Denmark DKK1,000.00 Ordinary Havneholmen 29, 1561, Copenhagen V, Denmark Baxalta-Ecuador S. A. Ecuador USD $1.00 Common Av.
Portugal y Cataline Aldaz, Quito, Ecuador Baxalta Estonia OU Republic of Estonia EUR 2,501 Common Kungla Str2, Saue Town, Harju County 76505, Republic of Estonia Shire Finland Oy Finland Ordinary no par value Tammasaarenkatu 7, 00180 PL 119 Helsinki, Finland Shire Biotech Finland Oy Finland 1.00 Ordinary c o BDO Oy, Vattuniemenranta 2, Helsinki, 00210, Finland Shire France S. A.
S France 15.00 Ordinary 112 avenue Klber, 75116 Paris, France Baxalta Deutschland GmbH Germany EUR 1,00 Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Jerini Ophthalmic Holding GmbH Germany Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Central & Eastern Europe GmbH Germany Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Deutschland GmbH Germany 25,565.60 Common Stock Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Deutschland Investments GmbH Germany Ordinary no par value Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany Shire Orphan Therapies GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Friedrichstrasse 149, 10117, Berlin, Germany SuppreMol GmbH Germany 1.00 Ordinary Am Klopferspitz 19a, 82152 Martinsried, Germany Baxalta BioScience Greece Greece EUR 10.00 Common 47 M. Antypa Str.
Irakleion, Greece Single Member LLC Shire Hellas Pharmaceuticals Import Greece 100.00 Ordinary 38 Vasilleos Konstantinou Avenue and Aminta Street 1 F, Export and Marketing S. A. Athens, 116.35, Greece Shire Guatemala, Sociedad Annima Guatemala Quetzales Q100 Common 16 Calle 0-55, Zona 10 Edificio Torre Internacional Nivel 9 Guatemala, Guatemala Baxalta Hungary Limited Liability Hungary Equity Interest 1138 Budapest, Npfrd utca 22.
Hungary Company Shire Hungary Kft Hungary Equity Interest Kr utca 2 A. C. p. Budapest, 1103, Hungary Baxalta BioScience India India INR 10 Equity shares 6th Floor, Tower-C, Building No.
8, DLF CyberCity, Private Limited DLF Phase II, Gurgaon 122 002, Haryana, India Shire Biotech India Private Limited India Ordinary INR 10.00 6th Floor, Tower-C, Building No.
8, DLF CyberCity, DLF Phase II, Gurgaon 122 002, Haryana, India Baxalta Ireland Financing Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Lower Baggot Street, Dublin 2, Ireland Navillus Insurance Company Ireland USD$10.00 Ordinary Third Floor, The Metropolitan Building, James Joyce Street, Designated Activity Company Dublin 1, Ireland NPS Pharma Holdings Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland NPS Pharma International Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary 70 Sir John Rogersons Quay, Dublin 2, Ireland Pharma International Insurance Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary The Third Floor, The Metropolitan Building, James Joyce Street, Designated Activity Company Dublin 1, Ireland Shire Acquisitions Investments Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Designated Activity Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Ireland Limited Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland 172 Shire Annual Report 2017 Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Holdings Ireland No.
2 Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Holdings Ireland No.
3 Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Intellectual Property Ireland LimitedIreland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Ireland Finance Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Ireland Finance Trading Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Ireland Investment Limited Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Ireland Plasma Limited Ireland EUR1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Ireland Premacure Investment Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Holdings Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Limited Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investment Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Trading Ireland Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Investments 2008 Ireland US$0.0002 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Services Ireland Ireland EUR1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Limited Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Finance Ireland Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals International Ireland US$1.00 A Ordinary 20% Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Unlimited Company US$1.00 B Ordinary 20% Dublin 2, Ireland US$1.00 C Ordinary 20% US$1.00 D Ordinary 20% US$1.00 Preferred 20% Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments Ireland US$1.00 Ordinary Block 2, Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, 2007 Unlimited Company Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Ireland 1.00 Ordinary Block 2 & 3 Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire Pharmaceutical Israel Ltd Israel Ordinary ILS NPV 58 Harakevet, Tel Aviv, Israel Baxalta Italy Holding S. r. l. Italy EUR 26,477,967.00 Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Roma, Italia Baxalta Italy S. r. l. Italy EUR 1,668,778.00 Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Roma, Italia Baxter Manufacturing S. p. A. Italy EUR 25.00 Common Piazzale dellIndustria No.
20, Roma, Italia EUR 25.00 Treasury Shire Italia S. p. A. Italy 0.51 Ordinary 4th Floor, via Mike Bongiorno n. 13, 20124 Milano, Italia Baxalta Japan Limited Japan No par value Common 1-23-1 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-6320, Japan Shire Japan KK Japan JPY Ordinary Tekko Building 21st Floor, 1-8-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0005, Japan Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Jersey CHF1,000.00 Ordinary 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Ireland Limited Shire Jersey Limited Jersey 1.00 Ordinary 22 Grenville Street, St Helier, JE4 8PX, Jersey Baxalta Kazakhstan LLP Republic of Members Medeuskij District, 105 Dostyk Ave. 3rd floor, Office 300, Kazakhstan Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan 050051 Shire Pharma Korea Yuhan Hoesa Republic of Korea KRW10,000.00 Ordinary Yeoksam-dong, 16th Floor, 134 Tehaeran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Baxalta Lithuania UAB Lithuania EUR 100 Ordinary Jogailos g. 9, Vilnius, LT-01116 Lithuania Shire Holdings Europe No.
2 S. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Holdings Luxembourg S. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Annual Report 2017 173 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Luxembourg Finance S. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Mandatory 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Redeemable Preference Luxembourg, Luxembourg 0.01% US$1.00 Ordinary 99.99% Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Property No.
2 S. r. l. Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg Intellectual Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Property S. r. l. Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Luxembourg S. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Pharmaceuticals International Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Finance S. r. l. Luxembourg, Luxembourg Shire Sweden Holdings S. r. l. Luxembourg US$1.00 Ordinary 1, rue Hildegard von Bingen, L-1282, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg Baxalta Malaysia SDN.
Malaysia RM1.00 Ordinary Level 21, Suite 21.01, The Gardens South Tower, Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Shire Pharmaceuticals Mexico Mexico MXN1.00 Ordinary Paseo fide Tamarindo # 90, Torre 1 Piso 7, Colonia Bosques fide S. A. fide C. V. 0.23% Las Lomas, Delegacion Cuajimalpa CP05120, Mexico DF MXN1.00 Variable Capital 99.77% Baxalta Holding B. V. Netherlands EUR 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Investments B. V. Netherlands EUR 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands B. V. Netherlands EUR 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands Holding B. V. Netherlands EUR 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Baxalta Netherlands Investment B. V. Netherlands EUR 0.01 Kobaltweg 49, 3542 CE Utrecht, The Netherlands Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary Block 2 Miesian Plaza, 50 58 Baggot Street Lower, Dublin 2, Ireland Shire International Licensing BV Netherlands 100.00 Ordinary Strawlinskylaan 481, 1077 XX, Amsterdam, Netherlands Shire Licensing V. O. F. Netherlands Members not shares Strawinskylaan 659, 1077XX Amsterdam, Netherlands Tanaud International BV Netherlands 450.00 Ordinary Prins Bernardplein 200, 1097 JB, Amsterdam, Netherlands Baxalta New Zealand Limited New Zealand Ordinary no par value 33 Vestey Drive, Mount Wellington, Auckland, 1060, New Zealand Shire New Zealand Limited New Zealand NZD1.00 Ordinary Crowe Horwath, Level 29, 188 Quay Street, Auckland Central, Auckland, 1010, New Zealand Shire Norway AS Norway NOK kr150 Ordinary Haakon VIIs gate 6, 0161 Oslo, Norway Shire Biotech Norway AS Norway NOK1,000.00 Ordinary c o BDO AS, Munkedamsveien 45, Oslo, N-0250, Norway Shire Panama, S. A. Panama USD $1.00 Common 43 Floor, Oceania Business Plaza, Tower 2000, Urb.
Punta Pacifica, Panama City, Panama Shire Peru S. A. C. Peru S 1.00 Ordinary Real Ocho San Isidro, 16th Floor Real Ocho Building, Centro Empresarial Real, Av.
Victor A. Belaunde, Lima, Peru Shire Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland PLN z50 Common Plac Europejski 1, 00-844 Warsaw, Poland Shire Pharmaceuticals Portugal, Portugal Ordinary Avenida da Repblica, 50, 10, Nossa Senhora fide Ftima, Lda 1069 211, Lisboa, Portugal Baxalta S. R. L. Romania Ordinary RON10.01 90 Calea 13 Septembrie, 7th floor, room no.
7.14, 5th District, Bucharest, Romania Shire Romania SRL Romania Ordinary RON10.00 Bucure ti Sectorul 1, Calea Floreasca nr.
2090, Romania SG Biotech Joint Russian Federation Ordinary RUR1.00 Office 26, 18 Vladimirskaya Street, Volginsky Village, 601125, Stock Company Petushinksky District, Vladimirsky Region, Russian Federation Shire Biotech Rus Limited Russian Federation Partnership Interest Timura Frunze Street, 11, building 1, floor 6, premises I, r, Liability Company 119021 Moscow, Russian Federation Shire Rus Limited Russian Federation Partnership Interest Timura Frunze Street, 11, building 1, floor 6, premises I, r, Liability Company 119021 Moscow, Russian Federation Shire doo Beograd Serbia RSD1,111.99 Equity Interest Uskoka 8 IV, 11 000 Belgrade, Serbia Shire Singapore Pte.
Ltd. Singapore Ordinary no par value 8 Marina Boulevard, #15-01, Marina Bay Finance Centre, Tower 1 Singapore 018981 174 Shire Annual Report 2017 Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Baxalta Slovakia s. r. o. Slovak Republic Participation Interest Mtna 48, Bratislava mestsk as Star Mesto 811 07, Slovakia Republic Shire Slovakia s. r. o. Slovak Republic EUR5,000 Equity Interest Mtna 48, Bratislava mestsk as Star Mesto 811 07, Slovakia Republic Baxalta Biofarmacevtska druzba d. o. o Slovenia Capital contribution elezna cesta 18, 1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia Shire Pharmaceuticals South South Africa Ordinary ZAR NPV Mazars House, 54 Glenhove Road, Melrose Estate, Africa Pty Ltd Johannesburg, 2196 South Africa Shire Pharmaceuticals Iberica S. L. U. Spain 10.00 Ordinary 4th Floor, Edificio Partenon, Avenida del Partenon 16-18, 28042, Madrid, Spain DuoCort Pharma AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Premacure AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Premacure Uppsala AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Shire Human Genetic Therapies AB Sweden SEK10.00 Common Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden Shire Sweden AB Sweden SEK100.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden ViroPharma AB Sweden SEK1.00 Ordinary Vasagatan 7, 6 tr, SE 111 20 Stockholm, Sweden SG Biotech Srl Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire Export Services GmbH Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Zahlerweg 4, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Baxalta GmbH Switzerland CHF 20.00 Ordinary Quota Zahlerweg 4, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Baxalta Manufacturing S. r. l. Switzerland CHF 2,000,000.00 Quota Route fide Pierre--Bot 111, 2000 Neuchtel, Switzerland Baxalta Recombinant S. r. l. Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Route fide Pierre--Bot 111, 2000 Neuchtel, Switzerland Baxalta Schweiz AG Switzerland CHF 100.00 Quota Zahlerweg 4, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire International Finance GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Quota Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire International GmbH Switzerland CHF1,000.00 Ordinary Zahlerweg 10, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire Switzerland GmbH Switzerland CHF100.00 Ordinary Zahlerweg 4, CH-6300, Zug, Switzerland Shire Biotech Taiwan Limited Taiwan NT $1000.00 Common 18F.
Taipei City 11052, Taiwan R. O. C. Taiwan Shire Limited Company Taiwan TWD5,000,000.00 18F, No.
Taipei City, Taiwan 110, Equity Interest Taiwan R. O. C. Shire Thailand Limited Thailand THB B 100 Ordinary No.
33 4 The Ninth Tower Grand Rama 9, 35th Floor, Room No.
TNA01-04, Rama 9 Road, Huaykwang Sub-District, Huaykwang District, Bangkok, Thailand Baxalta Tunisia SARL Tunisia DT 100.00 Common Rue fide lEuro, Imm Selim, Les Berges due Lac 2, Tunis, Tunisia Eczacba Shire Salk rnleri Turkey Group A sharesTL 1.00 Ayazaa Mah.
No: 23 Saryer, Sanayi five Ticaret A.. 50.00% Istanbul, Turkey Group B sharesTL 1.00 50.00% Shire Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi Turkey TRL25.00 Ordinary Esentepe Mah.
River Plaza 13 24 ili, stanbul, Turkey Baxalta Ukraine LLC Ukraine UAH Equity Interest 32 2-34 Riznytska Moskovska Street, Kyiv, Ukraine Shire Ukraine LLC Ukraine UAH Equity Interest 32 2 Moskovska Street, BC Senator, Floor 11, Kyiv, 1010, Ukraine Auralis Limited United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Baxalta UK Holdco Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Baxalta UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Baxalta UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Dyax Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Lumena Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Monmouth Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom NPS Pharma UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Rybar Laboratories Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings United Kingdom 0.05 Income Access 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom 0.01% 0.05 Ordinary 99.99% 0.05 Preferred Share 0.01% 0.05 Voting Share 0.01% Shire Annual Report 2017 175 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
List of subsidiaries continued Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Shire Biotech UK Holdings Limited United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Corporate Services Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Europe Finance United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Europe Limited United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Global Finance United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Holdings Europe Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Canada Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Holdings UK Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Human Genetic Therapies United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom UK Limited Shire Investments & Finance U. K. United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Company Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited United Kingdom 0.01 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceutical Development United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Limited Shire Pharmaceuticals Group United Kingdom 0.0001 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Services Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire UK Investments Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Shire US Investments United Kingdom US$1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Sigma-Tau Pharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Sparkleflame Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom The Endocrine Centre Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom Viropharma Limited United Kingdom 1.00 Ordinary 0.001% 1 Kingdom Street, London W2 6BD, United Kingdom 1.00 Redeemable Preference 99.999% AesRX, LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Amsterdam Newco, Inc United States Common Stock US$0.01 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Armagen Technologies, Inc United States Series A preferred stock 26679 Agoura Rd #100, Calabasas, CA 91302, USA Baxalta Export Corporation United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1209 Orange Street Wilmington, fide 19801, USA Baxalta Holdings LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta Mexico Holding LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta Singapore Holding LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta US Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta World Trade LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA Baxalta Worldwide LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL 60015, USA BearTracks, Inc. United States US$0.001 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Bikam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA BioLife Plasma LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL60015, USA BioLife Plasma Services LP United States Partnership Interest 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL60015, USA Cinacalcet Royalty Sub LLC United States US$10.00 Equity Interest 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Dyax Corp. United States Common Stock US$0.01 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA FerroKin BioSciences, Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Foresight Biotherapeutics, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Jerini Ophthalmic, Inc United States US$0.01 Common Stock 4% 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA US$0.01 Series A Preferred Stock 18.581% US$0.01 Series Z Preferred Stock 77.419% JPT Peptide Technologies Inc United States US$1.00 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Knight Newco 1, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA 176 Shire Annual Report 2017 Share class and proportion of authorised nominal value represented Name Country if not 100% Address Laboratorios Baxalta S. A.
United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1200 Lakeside Drive, Bannockburn, IL60015, USA Lotus Tissue Repair Inc United States US$0.001 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA 29.641% US$0.001 Preferred 70.359% Lumena Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Ordinary no par value 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Meritage Pharma, Inc. United States US$0.001 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA NPS Pharma Holdings U. S. Inc. United States US$0.0001 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA NPS Services, L. C. United States Partnership Interest 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Rare Disease Charitable Foundation United States Charitable Foundation 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA SARcode Bioscience Inc. United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Brandywine LLC United States US$1.00 Ordinary 1103 Foulk Road, Suite 100, Wilmington, fide 19803, USA Shire Development LLC United States US$ Common no par value 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Executive Services LLC United States US$ no par value 1200 Morris Drive, Wayne, PA 19087, USA Shire Holdings US AG United States US$0.01 Common stock 9200 Brookfield Court, Suite 108, Florence, KY 41042, USA Shire Human Genetic Therapies United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Securities Corporation Shire Human Genetic Therapies, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Incorporated United States US$ Commonno par value 1200 Morris Drive, Wayne, PA 19087, USA Shire Invicta US Inc United States US$0.01 common stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire LLC United States US$ No par value 9200 Brookfield Court, Suite 108, Florence, KY 41042, USA Shire North American Group Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock 9200 Brookfield Court, Suite 108, Florence, KY 41042, USA Shire Orphan Therapies LLC United States US$0.001 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Pharmaceutical Development Inc United States US$0.01 Common Stock 1200 Morris Drive, Wayne, PA 19087, USA Shire Pharmaceuticals LLC United States US$ Commonno par value 1200 Morris Drive, Wayne, PA 19087, USA Shire Properties US United States Partnership Interest 9200 Brookfield Court, Suite 108, Florence, KY 41042, USA Shire Regenerative Medicine LLC United States US$0.01 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Regulatory Inc United States US$ Common no par value 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire Supplies U. S. LLC United States Partnership Interest 9200 Brookfield Court, Suite 108, Florence, KY 41042, USA Shire US Holdings LLC United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire US Inc United States US$ Common no par value 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire US Investment Inc United States US$1.00 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire US Manufacturing Inc United States US$1.00 Common 730 Stockton Drive, Exton, PA 19341, USA Shire ViroPharma Incorporated United States US$0.01 Common 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Shire-NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. United States US$0.01 Common Stock 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA VCO Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Viropharma Biologics Inc United States US$0.01 Ordinary 300 Shire Way, Lexington, MA 02421, USA Viropharma Holdings LLC United States Sole member c o The Corporation Trust Company, Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, fide 19801, USA VPDE Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington fide 19801, USA VPINT Incorporated United States US$0.01 Ordinary 1105 N. Market Street, Suite 1300, Wilmington fide 19801, USA Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments British Virgin Islands US$1.00 Ordinary Romasco Place, Wickhams Cay 1, P. O.
Box 3140, British Virgin Islands Limited 97.708% Road Town, Tortola, VG1110, British Virgin Islands US$1.00 Preference 2.292% With the exception of those entities indicated, all subsidiary undertakings of Shire plc are 100% indirectly beneficially owned.
All subsidiary undertakings are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of Shire plc.
these entities are 100% directly beneficially owned this entity is 96% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 51% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 50.00% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 26.01% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 22.13% indirectly beneficially owned this entity is 13.26% indirectly beneficially owned Shire Annual Report 2017 177 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 30.
List of subsidiaries continued Company Name Location of Branch Representative Office Shire Export Services GmbH Algeria Shire Shanghai Pharmaceuticals Consultancy Co. Ltd. China Shire Export Services GmbH Egypt Baxalta UK Limited Ireland Shire Holdings Europe B. V. Ireland Shire Biopharmaceuticals Holdings Ireland Limited Ireland Shire plc Ireland Baxalta GmbH Norway Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Norway Baxalta World Trade LLC Puerto Rico Shire drutvo s ogranienom odgovornou za trgovinu i usluge Romania Shire Pharmaceutical Contracts Limited Russian Federation Shire Export Services GmbH Saudi Arabia Baxalta Manufacturing S. r. l. Singapore Shire Sweden Holdings S. r. l. Sweden Shire Pharmaceuticals Ireland Limited Switzerland Shire Export Services GmbH United Arab Emirates Shire Services BVBA United Kingdom Shire Holdings Ireland Unlimited Company United Kingdom Shire Holdings Limited United Kingdom Shire Pharmaceuticals Investments 2007 Unlimited Company United Kingdom Shire Singapore Pte Ltd Vietnam 178 Shire Annual Report 2017
