Cautionary statement Pages 4 to 43 of this Annual Report including but not limited to the Chairmans Statement, Risk Committee Report and the Investment Adviser Report, together the Review Section have been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
These should not be relied on by any other party or for any other purpose.
The Review Section may include statements that are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.
These forward-looking statements can be identied by the use of forward-looking terminology, including the terms believes, estimates, anticipates, forecasts, projects, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or comparable terminology.
These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not historical facts.
They appear in a number of places throughout this Annual Report and include statements regarding the intentions, beliefs or current expectations of the Directors and the Investment Adviser concerning, amongst other things, the investment objectives and investment policy, nancing strategies, investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, opportunities and distribution policy of the Company and the markets in which it invests.
These forward-looking statements reect current expectations regarding future events and performance and speak only as at the date of this Annual Report.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or results and will not necessarily be accurate indications of whether or not the times at or by which such performance or results will be achieved.
The Companys actual investment performance, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, opportunities, distribution policy and the development of its nancing strategies may differ materially from the impression created by the forwardlooking statements contained in this Annual Report.
Subject to their legal and regulatory obligations, the Directors and the Investment Adviser expressly disclaim any obligations to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reect any change in expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any statement is based.
In addition, the Review Section may include target gures for future financial periods.
Any such gures are targets only and are not forecasts.
This Annual Report has been prepared for the JLIF Group as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters that are significant to John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
Designed and produced by MAGEE www.
co. uk The paper used in this report is produced using virgin wood fibre from well managed forests in Brazil, Sweden and Germany with FSC certification.
All pulps used are Elemental Chlorine Free ECF and manufactured at a mill that has been awarded the ISO14001 and EMAS certificates for environmental management.
The use of the FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from well-managed forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Stewardship Council.
Printed by Pureprint Group Limited, a CarbonNeutral Printing Company.
Pureprint Group Limited is FSC certified and ISO 14001 certified showing that it is committed to all round excellence and improving environmental performance is an important part of this strategy.
We aim to reduce at source the effect our operations have on the environment, and are committed to continual improvement, prevention of pollution and compliance with any legislation or industry standards.
JLIF Limited Annual Report 2017 John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited Annual Report 2017 P. O.
Box 225, Heritage Hall Le Marchant Street St Peter Port Guernsey, GY1 4HY Channel Islands Registered number: 52256 Tel: 44 0 1481 742742 GIIN Number: K2UFLF.
831 Further copies of this statement are Transport Actively generating long-term available by visiting the Companys Education website or at the address above.
sustainable value Health Justice & Emergency Services www.
com Regeneration & Social Housing Government Buildings Street Lighting @jlfund
