NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 1 Corporate information Financial reporting standards and amendments issued but not yet effective Petrofac Limited the Company is a limited liability company registered Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the and domiciled in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and is Groups consolidated financial statements are listed below and include the holding company for the international group of Petrofac subsidiaries.
only those standards and amendments that are likely to have an impact The Companys 31 December 2017 financial statements are shown on on the financial performance, position and disclosures of the Group pages 170 to 185.
The Groups principal activity is the provision of services at a future date.
The Group intends to adopt these standards when to the oil and gas production and processing industry.
The consolidated financial statements of Petrofac Limited and its IFRS 9 Financial Instruments subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were IFRS 9 brings together all three aspects of the accounting for financial authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of the Board of instruments: classification and measurement, impairment and hedge Directors on 28 February 2018. accounting.
IFRS 9 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early application permitted.
Except for hedge Information on the Groups subsidiaries, associates and joint accounting, retrospective application is required but providing arrangements is contained in note 34 to these consolidated financial comparative information is not compulsory.
Information on other related party transactions of the Group the requirements are generally applied prospectively, with some is provided in note 31. limited exceptions.
2 Summary of significant accounting policies The Group plans to adopt the new standard on the required effective Basis of preparation date and will not restate comparative information.
During 2017, the Group The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in performed a detailed impact assessment of all three aspects of IFRS 9.
This accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued assessment is based on currently available information and may by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and applicable be subject to changes arising from further reasonable and supportable requirements of Jersey law.
information being made available to the Group during 2018 when the Group adopts the standard.
Overall, the Group expects no significant impact on its The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a historical consolidated statement of financial position except for the effect of applying cost basis, except for available-for-sale AFS investment, derivative financial the impairment requirements of IFRS 9.
The Group does not expect the instruments, financial assets held at fair value through profit and loss and transition adjustment impact at 1 January 2018 to be material.
contingent consideration that have been measured at fair value.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States dollars Classification and measurement and all values are rounded to the nearest million US$m, except when The Group does not expect a significant impact on its consolidated otherwise indicated.
statement of financial position on applying the classification and measurement requirements of IFRS 9.
It expects to continue measuring Presentation of results at fair value all financial assets currently held at fair value.
Petrofac presents business performance, an alternative performance measure, in the consolidated income statement as a means of measuring Impairment underlying financial performance.
The business performance measure IFRS 9 requires the Group to record expected credit losses on all excludes the contribution of impairments, certain re-measurements, applicable financial assets e. g. loans and receivables, trade receivables, restructuring and redundancy costs, contract migration costs, material retention receivables, work-in-progress and bank balances, either on a deferred tax movements arising due to foreign exchange differences in 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Group will apply the simplified approach jurisdictions where tax is computed based on the functional currency of and record lifetime expected losses on all loans and receivables, trade the country and material forward rate movements in Kuwaiti dinar forward receivables, retention receivables, work-in-progress and bank balances.
The intention of this measure is to provide readers with The Group has determined that, due to a change in the loss allowance a clear and consistent presentation of underlying business performance.
recognition from an incurred loss model to an expected credit loss model and the impairment requirements under IFRS 9 being applied for the first Adoption of new financial reporting standards, amendments time to its retention receivables and work-in-progress balances, the initial and interpretations application of the standard will not have a material impact on the opening Effective new financial reporting amendments retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
The Group has adopted amendments issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the International Financial Hedge accounting Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC of the IASB that are relevant The Group has determined that all existing hedge relationships that are to its operations and effective for accounting periods beginning on or after currently designated in effective hedging relationships will continue to 1 January 2017.
These were: qualify for hedge accounting under IFRS 9.
The Group has chosen not to Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows: Disclosure Initiative retrospectively apply IFRS 9 on transition to the hedges where the Group Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes: Recognition of Deferred Tax excluded the forward points from the hedge designation under IAS 39.
As Assets for Unrealised Losses IFRS 9 does not change the general principles of how an entity accounts for effective hedges, applying the hedging requirements of IFRS 9 will not These amendments did not have a material impact on the Groups have a significant impact on the Groups financial statements.
However, the disclosures required by IAS 7 have been provided in note 18 on page 150.
No comparative The new standard also introduces expanded disclosure requirements and information is presented as it is not mandatory in the first year changes in presentation.
These are expected to change the nature and of application.
extent of the Groups disclosures about its financial instruments particularly in the year of the adoption of the new standard.
120 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers No risk adjustment will be applied to the survey of work performed IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from  since IFRS 15 requires that revenue is contracts with customers.
Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an recognised when control of a good or service transfers to the amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be customer.
This will result in revenue and margin being recognised entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.
earlier in future reporting periods Contract costs are currently recognised in the consolidated income The Group completed its detailed analysis in 2017 although this statement by reference to .
IFRS 15 does not assessment is based on currently available information and may be prescribe the accounting for contract costs and therefore management subject to changes arising from further reasonable and supportable will estimate cost accruals to arrive at the total contract costs to be information being made available to the Group during the first half of 2018. recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Estimating these The Group does not expect the transition adjustment impact at 1 January cost accruals may result in a greater degree of margin variability 2018 to be material.
between reporting periods  based thresholds for initial margin The Group plans to adopt the new standard on 1 January 2018 using the recognition will continue to be applied.
Management believes these modified retrospective method.
thresholds allow a reasonable measurement of the performance Rendering of services obligation outcome to be performed and margin to be recognised.
The Group provides lump-sum engineering, procurement and Revenue, only to the extent of the costs incurred, will be recognised construction project execution services and reimbursable engineering and until  based thresholds are met production services to the oil and gas production and processing industry.
The advance payments for lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction project execution services contracts are structured Lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Group, project execution services and they do not provide customers with an alternative to pay in arrears.
The Group currently accounts for lump-sum engineering, procurement In addition, the length of time between when the customer pays and and construction project execution services contracts as a single the Group transfers goods and services to the customer is relatively performance obligation and recognises revenue by reference to the short.
Therefore, the Group has concluded that there is not a stage of completion method output method, based on surveys of work significant financing component within such contracts.
Currently, the performed once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
Group does not have any contracts where payments by customer are Variation orders and claims are only included in revenue when it is over a number of years after the Group has transferred goods and probable that these will be accepted and can be measured reliably see services to the customer: if such cases arise in future the transaction current revenue recognition policies on page 127.
The Group provides price for such contracts will be determined by discounting the for liquidated damages claims where the customer has the contractual amount of promised consideration using an appropriate discount rate right to apply liquidated damages and it is considered probable that the The Group concluded that it operates as principal in all its lump-sum customer will successfully pursue such a claim.
engineering, procurement and construction project execution For its lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction project services contracts execution services contracts, the Group has reached the following main Pre-contract bid costs are currently recognised as an expense until conclusions when applying IFRS 15 to its current project portfolio at there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded.
The Group 1 January 2018: currently capitalises pre-contract bid costs, where such costs are Lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction project incremental to the contract and are expected to be recovered, as an execution services contracts contain distinct goods and services asset and will expense it over the life of the contract.
This is in line with but these are not distinct in the context of the contract.
It is therefore the requirements of IFRS 15 therefore no material change is expected appropriate to combine the services into a single performance IFRS 15 requires contract assets and contract liabilities for individual obligation which is consistent with the current accounting treatment customers to be presented on a net basis.
This will impact the Services are satisfied over time given that the customer simultaneously presentation of these contract assets and contract liabilities in the receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group.
consolidated statement of financial position Consequently, under IFRS 15 the Group will continue to recognise Reimbursable engineering and production services revenue from its lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction The Group currently recognises service revenue for its reimbursable project execution services contracts over time rather than at a point engineering and production services contracts as and when the services of time are rendered based on the agreed contract schedule of rates.
Incentive Contract modifications, e. g. variation orders, will be accounted for as payments are included in revenue when the contract is sufficiently part of the existing contract, with a cumulative catch up adjustment advanced that it is probable that the specified performance standards will to revenue.
For material contract modifications, based on be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive payments can be managements assessment, a separate contract may be recognised measured reliably see current revenue recognition policies on page 127. in line with current practice Variable consideration, e. g. variation orders, claims and liquidated For its reimbursable engineering and production services contracts, the damages, will be assessed at contract inception and re-assessed at Group has reached the following main conclusions when applying IFRS 15 each reporting period using the expected outcome approach.
The to its current project portfolio at 1 January 2018: requirement to estimate variable consideration at contract inception Services are satisfied over time given that the customer simultaneously is new, and its application will not result in any significant impact to receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group.
opening retained earnings at 1 January 2018.
This new requirement Consequently, under IFRS 15 the Group will continue to recognise could however alter the amount and timing of revenue and margin revenue from its reimbursable engineering and production services recognition in future reporting periods depending upon the facts and contracts over time rather than at a point of time using the input circumstances of individual contracts method for measuring progress towards complete satisfaction of the performance obligation Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 121 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Presentation and disclosure requirements The presentation and disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 are more continued detailed than under current IFRS.
The presentation requirements Distinct performance obligations based on the assessment that the represent a significant change from current practice and significantly service is capable of being distinct both individually and within the increase the volume of disclosures required in the Groups financial context of the contract.
The Group currently accounts for reimbursable statements.
Many of the disclosure requirements in IFRS 15 are new engineering and production services contracts as separate and the Group has assessed that the impact of some of these disclosure deliverables of bundled sales, as generally the contract includes requirements will be significant.
The Group expects that the notes to separate transaction prices for each performance obligation.
If not the the financial statements will be expanded because of the disclosure of Group allocates consideration between these deliverables using the significant judgements.
In addition, as required by IFRS 15, the Group relative stand-alone prices and recognises service revenue as and will disaggregate revenue recognised from contracts with customers when the services are rendered.
The Group does not expect any into categories that depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty impact on revenue as the current revenue recognition policy is of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.
In 2017, the consistent with the requirements under IFRS 15 Group continued preparing and testing the appropriate systems, internal Contract modifications will be accounted for as a separate contract or controls, policies and procedures necessary to collect and disclose the as part of an existing contract depending on facts and circumstances.
The current policy is consistent with IFRS 15 requirements and revenue IFRS 16 Leases recognition is not expected to be impacted IFRS 16 was issued in January 2016 and it replaces IAS 17 Leases, Incentive payments referred to as variable consideration under IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 IFRS 15 will be estimated at contract inception and at the end of Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of each reporting period using the single most likely outcome approach.
Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease.
IFRS 16 sets out the The impact is unlikely to be significant as the expected change will principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure not be material of leases and requires lessees to account for all leases under a single The Group will continue its assessment of when the outcome of a on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for finance leases under contract can be estimated reliably for recognising margin, as the IAS 17.
The standard includes two recognition exemptions for lessees current policy is in line with the requirements of IFRS 15 leases of low-value assets e. g. personal computers and short-term The Group does not generally receive advances from customers for leases e. g. leases with a lease term of 12 months or less.
At the its reimbursable engineering and production services contracts.
If commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability to make advances are received these will only be short-term.
The Group has lease payments i. e. the lease liability and an asset representing the right concluded that in such cases it will use the practical expedient to use the underlying asset during the lease term i. e. the right-of-use provided in IFRS 15, and will not adjust the promised amount of the asset.
Lessees will be required to separately recognise the interest consideration for the effects of a significant financing components in expense on the lease liability and the depreciation expense on the the contracts, where the Group expects at contract inception that the right-of-use asset.
period between the Group transfer of a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will Lessees will be also required to remeasure the lease liability upon the be one year or less.
Therefore, for short-term advances, the Group will occurrence of certain events e. g. a change in the lease term, a change not account for a financing component even if it is a significant amount in future lease payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used The Group has concluded that it operates as principal in all its to determine those payments.
The lessee will generally recognise the reimbursable engineering and production services contracts.
amount of the re-measurement of the lease liability as an adjustment to Currently, material pre-contract bid costs that relate directly to the the right-of-use asset.
contract and are expected to be recovered are capitalised as an asset and expensed over the life of the contract which is consistent Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from todays with the new requirements accounting under IAS 17.
Lessors will continue to classify all leases using the same classification principle as in IAS 17 and distinguish between two Sale of goods types of leases: operating and finance leases.
Contracts with customers in which the sale of crude oil is expected to be the only performance obligation will not have any impact on the Groups IFRS 16 also requires lessees and lessors to make more extensive profit or loss upon adoption of IFRS 15.
The Group expects the revenue disclosures than under IAS 17. recognition to occur at a point in time when control of the goods is IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. transferred to the customer, generally on delivery of the goods.
Early application is permitted, but not before an entity applies IFRS 15.
The Groups Equity Upstream Investments and Production Enhancement A lessee can choose to apply the standard using either a full retrospective Contracts are not expected to be affected by the adoption of IFRS 15. or a modified retrospective approach.
The standards transition provisions permit certain reliefs.
Warranty obligations The Group provides warranties to customers with assurance that the In 2018, the Group will continue to assess the potential effect of IFRS 16 related product will function as the parties intended because it complies on its consolidated financial statements and intends to adopt the standard with agreed-upon specifications.
The Group does not provide warranties at the required effective date.
as a service, in addition to the assurance that the product complies with Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of agreed-upon specifications, in its contracts with customers.
As such, Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture the Group expects that such warranties will be assurance-type The amendments address the conflict between IFRS 10 and IAS 28 in warranties which will continue to be accounted for under IAS 37 dealing with the loss of control of a subsidiary that is sold or contributed Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets consistent to an associate or joint venture.
The amendments clarify that the gain or with its current practice.
loss resulting from the sale or contribution of assets that constitute a business, as defined in IFRS 3, between an investor and its associate or joint venture, is recognised in full.
Any gain or loss resulting from the sale or contribution of assets that do not constitute a business, however, is 122 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements recognised only to the extent of unrelated investors interests in the Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate associate or joint venture.
The IASB has deferred the effective date of of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for nonthese amendments indefinitely, but if early adopted the amendments must controlling interests, and any previous interest held, over the net fair value be applied prospectively.
These amendments will be applied in the future of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
If the fair value when applicable.
of the net assets acquired is in excess of the aggregate consideration transferred, the Group reassesses whether it has correctly identified all Basis of consolidation of the assets acquired and all of the liabilities assumed and reviews the The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements procedures used to measure the amounts to be recognised at the of Petrofac Limited the Company and entities controlled by the acquisition date.
If the reassessment still results in an excess of the fair Company its subsidiaries as at 31 December 2017.
Control is achieved value of net assets acquired over the aggregate consideration transferred, when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its then the gain from a bargain purchase is recognised in the consolidated involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns income statement.
through its power over the investee.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any Generally, there is a presumption that a majority of voting rights results in accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is reviewed for impairment control.
To support this presumption, and when the Group has less than a annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate majority of the voting or similar rights of an investee, the Group considers that such carrying amount may be impaired.
all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power over an investee, including: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies Contractual arrangements with the other vote holders of the investee of the combination.
Each unit or units to which goodwill is allocated Rights arising from other contractual arrangements represents the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is Voting rights and potential voting rights the Group monitored for internal management purposes and is not larger than The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and an operating segment determined in accordance with IFRS 8 circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three Operating Segments.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable amount of the obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control cash-generating units to which the goodwill relates.
Where the recoverable of the subsidiary.
Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a subsidiary amount of the cash-generating units is less than the carrying amount acquired or disposed of during the reporting period are included in the of the cash-generating units and related goodwill, an impairment loss consolidated statement of other comprehensive income from the date the is recognised.
Group gains control until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary.
Where goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units and part of Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income the operation within those units is disposed of, the goodwill associated OCI are attributed to the Petrofac Limited shareholders and to the with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the non-controlling interests, even if this results in the non-controlling interests operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the Goodwill disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into relative values of the operation disposed of and the value portion of the line with the Groups accounting policies.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are Contingent consideration payable on a business combination eliminated on consolidation.
When, as part of a business combination, the Group defers a proportion A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of the total purchase consideration payable for an acquisition, the amount of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction.
provided for is the acquisition date fair value of the consideration.
The unwinding of the discount element is recognised as a finance cost in If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises the related assets the consolidated income statement.
Changes in estimated contingent including goodwill, liabilities, non-controlling interest and other components consideration payable on acquisition are recognised in the consolidated of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement unless they are measurement period adjustments income statement.
Any investment retained is recognised at fair value.
which arise as a result of additional information obtained after the Business combinations and goodwill acquisition date about the facts and circumstances existing at the Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method.
acquisition date, which are adjusted against carried goodwill.
Contingent The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured and consideration transferred, which is measured at acquisition date fair subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity.
value, and the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.
Investment in associates and joint ventures For each business combination, the Group elects whether to measure the An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence.
non-controlling interests in the acquiree at fair value or at the proportionate Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and share of the acquirees identifiable net assets.
All transaction costs operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control associated with business combinations are charged to the consolidated over those policies.
income statement in the reporting period of such combination.
Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in activities require unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint accordance with the contractual terms, economic circumstances and arrangements are of two types: joint venture and joint operation.
A joint pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date.
This includes the venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint separation of embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the joint If the business combination is achieved in stages, any previously held venture.
A joint operation is a type of joint arrangement whereby the equity interest is re-measured at its acquisition date fair value and any parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
and obligations for the liabilities relating to the arrangement.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 123 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Foreign currency translation The Groups consolidated financial statements are presented in United continued States dollars, which is also the Parent Companys functional currency.
The considerations made in determining significant influence or Each entity in the Group determines its own functional currency and items joint control are similar to those necessary to determine control included in the financial statements of each entity are measured using that over subsidiaries.
Functional currency is defined as the currency of the The Groups investments in its associates and joint ventures are primary economic environment in which the entity operates.
The Group accounted for using the equity method.
Under the equity method, the uses the direct method of consolidation and on disposal of a foreign investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost.
operation, the gain or loss that is reclassified to profit or loss reflects the The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes amount that arises from using this method.
in the Groups share of net assets of the associate or joint venture since Transactions and balances the acquisition date.
Goodwill relating to the associate or joint venture is Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded by the Groups included in the carrying amount of the investment and is not tested for entities at their respective functional currency spot rates at the date the impairment separately.
transaction first qualifies for recognition.
The consolidated income statement reflects the Groups share of the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are profits of the associate or joint venture.
Any change in OCI of those translated at the functional currency spot rates of exchange at the investees is presented as part of the Groups consolidated statement of reporting date.
In addition, when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Differences arising on settlement or translation of monetary items are Group recognises its share of any changes, when applicable, in the recognised in profit or loss with the exception of monetary items that consolidated statement of changes in equity.
are designated as part of the hedge of the Groups net investment of a foreign operation.
These are recognised in the consolidated statement The Groups share of profit or loss of an associates and joint ventures of other comprehensive income until the net investment is disposed of, is presented separately in the consolidated income statement at which time the cumulative amount is reclassified to profit or loss.
outside operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange differences on those non-controlling interests.
monetary items are also recorded in the consolidated statement of other Any unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions between the comprehensive income.
Group and the associates and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign of the Groups ownership interest in these associates and joint ventures.
currency are translated using the exchange rates at the dates of the initial The financial statements of the associates and joint ventures are prepared transactions.
Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign for the same reporting period as the Group.
When necessary, adjustments currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the are made to align the accounting policies with those of the Group.
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in line with the After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss on its investment in its i. e. translation differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is associate or joint venture.
At end of each reporting period, the Group recognised in the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income determines whether there is objective evidence that its investment in the or profit or loss are also recognised in the consolidated statement of other associates or joint ventures is impaired.
If there is such evidence, the comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively.
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint venture and its carrying Group companies amount and recognises any loss as an exceptional item in the On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are consolidated income statement.
translated into United States dollars at the rate of exchange prevailing at the reporting date and their statements of profit or loss are translated at Upon loss of significant influence over an associate or joint control over a exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates.
The exchange joint venture, the Group measures and recognises any retained investment differences arising on translation for consolidation are recognised in the at its fair value.
Any difference between the carrying amount of the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income.
On disposal of a associate or joint venture upon loss of significant influence or joint control foreign operation, the component of the consolidated statement of other and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Joint operations Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation and any fair The Groups interests in joint operations are recognised in relation to value adjustments to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising its interest in a joint operations: on the acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign Assets, including its share of any assets held jointly operation and translated at the spot rate of exchange at the reporting date.
Liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly Revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation Share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation Expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly Under joint operations, the expenses that the Group incurs and its share of the revenue earned are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Assets controlled and liabilities incurred by the Group are recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position.
124 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Significant accounting judgements and estimates In selecting the most appropriate policies for IES contracts the main Judgements judgements are as follows: In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, management The Greater Stella Area GSA asset was treated in the consolidated has made the following judgements, apart from those involving statement of financial position as a financial asset and measured at estimations, which have the most significant effect on the amounts fair value through profit and loss FVTPL until it was converted to a recognised in the consolidated financial statements: 20% ownership interest in the GSA field.
On 21 September 2017, the Group obtained Oil and Gas Authority approval in the UK and Revenue recognition on lump-sum engineering, procurement and the financial asset was converted to a 20% equity share in the GSA construction project execution services contracts: the Group licence and is now accounted for as a Production Sharing Contract recognises revenue on fixed-price engineering, procurement and PSC type arrangement note 10.
The acquisition of 20% construction contracts using the  method, ownership interest in the GSA field was treated as a joint operation based on client certified surveys of work performed this is an output since contractually all the decisions concerning the relevant method of measuring progress and recognising revenue.
The Group activities of the unincorporated joint arrangement require has determined this basis of revenue recognition is the best available unanimous consent of the joint arrangement partners measure of progress on such contracts The Mexican PEC assets are classified as oil and gas assets within Revenue recognition on consortium contracts: the Group recognises property, plant and equipment in the consolidated statement its share of revenue from contracts agreed as part of a consortium.
of financial position as there is direct exposure to variable field The Group uses the  method based on production levels, and indirect exposure to changes in oil and client certified surveys of work performed to recognise revenue for the gas prices.
These exposures impact the generation of cash from period and recognises its share of revenue and costs in accordance the assets and any financial return thereon, including the risk of with the agreed consortium contractual arrangement.
In selecting the negative financial return.
We believe this classification is most appropriate accounting treatment, the main considerations are: appropriate due to the nature of expenditure and it is aligned Determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint operation with our treatment in respect of PSC arrangements where the or joint venture though not directly related to revenue recognition risk reward profile is similar this element has a material impact on the presentation of revenue Upon migration to PSC arrangements, the existing net assets of the or share of profit loss of the joint venture, in the consolidated PEC assets will be derecognised and an oil and gas asset within income statement property, plant and equipment, representing the Groups ownership At what point can the revenues, costs and margin from service interest in the PSC, will be recognised.
Any gain or loss arising contract be reliably measured in accordance with IAS 11 on the migration will be recognised as an exceptional item in the Construction Contracts, and consolidated income statement.
During 2017, the Group migrated Whether there are any other remaining features unique to the the Santuario PEC in Mexico to a PSC note 10 and recognised a contract that are relevant to the assessment loss of US$20m on migration note 5.
The migrated PSC In selecting the most relevant and reliable accounting policies for Integrated arrangements will be treated as a joint operation since contractually Energy Services IES contracts, the main considerations are as follows: all the decisions concerning the relevant activities of the unincorporated joint arrangement will require unanimous consent of Determination of whether the joint arrangement is a joint operation or the joint arrangement partners joint venture though not directly related to revenue recognition this JSD6000 installation vessel the vessel had a pre-impairment element has a material impact on the presentation of revenue or share carrying amount of US$393m at 31 December 2017, and was of profit loss of the joint venture, in the consolidated income statement reclassified from assets under construction within property, plant Whether the Group has legal rights to the production output and and equipment to assets held for sale, since the vessels carrying therefore is able to book reserves in respect of the project amount is expected to be recovered principally through a disposal The nature and extent, if any, of volume and price financial exposures transaction rather than through its intended use.
Based on under the terms of the contract discussions with potential counterparties, Management has The extent to which the Groups capital investment is at risk and the determined that the recoverable amount of the vessel fair value mechanism for recoverability under the terms of the contract less costs of disposal was lower than its carrying amount and as a At what point can the revenues from each type of contract be reliably result has recognised an impairment charge of US$176m as an measured in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue exceptional item note 5 in the consolidated income statement.
The Whether there are any other remaining features unique to the contract vessel is available for immediate sale in its present condition and that are relevant to the assessment location.
The disposal is expected to be completed within Revenue recognition of IES contracts: 12months from the end of the reporting period and relates The Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate to the Engineering & Construction reporting segment treatment for its various commercial structures which include Risk Estimation uncertainty Service Contracts RSCs, Production Enhancement Contracts PECs The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of and Equity Upstream Investments including Production Sharing estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that have a Contracts PSCs see accounting policies note on page 127 significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts for further details of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below: IES contracts are classified in the consolidated statement of financial Liquidated damages claims LDs : the Group provides for LD claims position as follows: where the customer has the contractual right to apply LDs and it is The Group assesses on a case by case basis the most appropriate considered probable that the customer will successfully pursue such a consolidated statement of financial position classification of its claim.
This requires an estimate of the amount of LDs payable under a Production Enhancement Contracts and Equity Upstream Investments claim which involves a number of management judgements and see accounting policy notes on page 127 assumptions regarding the amounts to recognise in contract accounting.
US$4m was provided during the year for LD claims 2016:US$153m Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 125 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies higher or lower than the amount provided.
The carrying amount of tax provisions at 31 December 2017 was US$93m 2016: US$73m continued Other taxes payable: the Group accrues indirect taxes, such as value Project costs to complete estimates: at the end of the reporting period added tax, to the extent it is probable that there will be an associated tax the Group is required to estimate costs to complete on fixed-price payment or receipt in respect of relevant income and expenses.
Estimating costs to complete on such contracts requires the requires management to make judgements and assumptions on the Group to make estimates of future costs to be incurred, based on work application of tax laws and regulations to events in the period.
The ultimate to be performed beyond the reporting period.
This estimate will impact outcome may result in materially higher or lower payments or receipts revenues, cost of sales, work-in-progress, billings in excess of costs Recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, intangible and estimated earnings and accrued contract expenses assets and other financial assets: the Group determines at the end of Recognition of variation orders VOs : the Group recognises revenues the reporting period whether there are indicators of impairment in the and margins from VOs where it is considered probable that the VOs carrying amount of its property, plant and equipment, intangible assets will be settled by the customer and this requires management to and other financial assets.
Where indicators exist, an impairment test is assess the likelihood of such a settlement being made by reference to undertaken which requires management to estimate the recoverable the contract, customer communications and other forms of amount of its assets which is initially based on its value in use.
At 31 December 2017, the work in progress necessary, fair value less costs of disposal is estimated, for example, line item in the consolidated statement of financial position includes by reference to quoted market values, similar arms length transactions variation orders of US$374m 2016: US$525m involving these assets or risk adjusted discounted cash flow models.
Onerous contract provisions: the Group provides for future losses on For the following specific assets, certain assumptions and estimates contracts where it is considered probable that contract costs are likely have been made in determining recoverable amounts.
Should any to exceed revenues in future years.
Estimating these future losses changes occur in these assumptions, further impairment may be involves a number of assumptions about the achievement of contract required in future periods: performance targets and the likely levels of future cost escalation over Impairment testing performed for the Mexican PEC assets and fair time.
The carrying amount of onerous contract provisions at 31 value re-measurement of the Panuco contingent consideration December 2017 was US$16m 2016: US$29m.
See note 28 which have a combined carrying amount of US$412m at 31 Onerous operating lease provision: the Group provides for future costs December 2017 2016: US$676m : the recoverable amount is on its non-cancellable operating leases where it is considered influenced by the outcome of ongoing contractual negotiations in probable that the leasehold office buildings will remain vacant in future respect of the outstanding PEC migration to equity type years due to reduced business activity.
Key assumptions include the expected working estimate of future business growth and the likely levels of occupancy interest in the PSC and financial and fiscal terms achieved upon over time.
The carrying amount of onerous operating lease provision at migration.
During 2017, the Group successfully migrated the 31 December 2017 was US$18m 2016: US$11m.
See note 28 Santuario PEC to a PSC type arrangement and has used similar Impairment of goodwill: the Group determines whether goodwill is assumptions to determine the recoverable amounts for other impaired at least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the PEC assets.
An estimate was also undertaken in respect of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is deferred consideration amount receivable, arising from the disposal allocated.
Estimating the value in use requires the Group to make an of Pnuco PEC, when determining the recoverable amount for this estimate of the expected future cash flows from each cash-generating asset, with key assumptions relating to the terms under which other unit and also to determine a suitable discount rate in order to calculate assets will be migrated to a PSC type arrangement.
There is the present value of those cash flows.
The carrying amount of goodwill currently political uncertainty in Mexico in the lead up to the general at 31 December 2017 was US$76m 2016: US$72m.
See note 13 election in July 2018 which may delay migration negotiations or, Deferred tax assets: the Group recognises deferred tax assets on all ultimately, have a negative impact on the contractual terms and applicable temporary differences where it is probable that the tax conditions anticipated in the migrations.
This would result in a loss assets estimated are realised and future taxable profits will be available on migration through lower fair value re-measurements of the net for utilisation.
This requires management to make judgements and assets being contributed into the equity interest assumptions regarding the interpretation of tax laws and regulations as Block PM304 oil and gas asset in Malaysia had a carrying amount they apply to events in the period and the amount of deferred tax that of US$244m 2016: US$286m : the recoverable amount was can be recognised based on the magnitude and likelihood of future determined with reference to the expected terms under which the taxable profits which are estimated from management assumptions current contract will be re-negotiated and extended with the with respect to the outcome of future events.
The carrying amount of concession holder net deferred tax assets at 31 December 2017 was US$101m 2016: In 2017 there were pre-tax impairment charges and fair value reUS$63m.
Included within the gross assets is US$33m 2016: US$nil measurements of US$422m 2016: US$260m post-tax US$367m 2016: on which a management judgement has been made on the probable US$257m which are explained in note 5.
The key sources of estimation treatment of the Migration of Santuario Production Enhancement uncertainty for these measurements are consistent with those disclosed in Contract PEC to Production Sharing Contract PSC for tax purposes, note 5: based on professional external advice Income tax: Group entities are routinely subject to tax audits and Units of production depreciation: estimated proven plus probable assessments including processes whereby tax return filings are reserves are used in determining the depreciation of oil and gas assets discussed and agreed with the relevant tax authorities.
Whilst the such that the depreciation charge is proportional to the depletion of the ultimate outcome of such tax audits and discussions cannot be remaining reserves over the shorter of: life of the field or the end of the determined with certainty, management estimates the level of tax respective licence concession period.
These calculations require the provisioning required for amounts where there is a probable future use of estimates including the amount of economically recoverable outflow, based on the applicable law and regulations, historic reserves and future oil and gas capital expenditure note 11 outcomes of similar audits and discussions, professional external Decommissioning costs: the recognition and measurement of advice and consideration of the progress on, and nature of, current decommissioning provisions involves the use of estimates and discussions with the tax authority concerned.
The ultimate outcome assumptions which include the existence of an obligation to dismantle following resolution of such audits and assessments may be materially and remove a facility or restore the site on which it is located, the 126 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements appropriate discount and inflation rates to use in determining the net Equity Upstream Investments present value of the liability, the estimated costs of decommissioning Oil and gas revenues comprise the Groups share of sales from the based on internal and external estimates and the payment dates for processing or sale of hydrocarbons from the Groups Equity Upstream expected decommissioning costs.
As a result, actual costs could differ Investments on an entitlement basis, when the significant risks and from estimated cost estimates used to provide for decommissioning rewards of ownership have been passed to the buyer.
The provision for decommissioning at 31 December 2017 Borrowing costs of US$138m 2016: US$116m represents managements best Borrowing costs directly attributable to the construction of qualifying estimate of the present value of future decommissioning costs assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time Revenue recognition to prepare for their intended use, are added to the cost of those assets, Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable economic until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use.
benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue can be reliably measured.
All other borrowing costs are recognised as interest payable within the The following specific recognition criteria also apply: finance costs line item in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
Engineering & Construction E&C revenues from fixed-price lump-sum contracts are recognised using the  method, Property, plant and equipment based on client certified surveys of work performed once the outcome of Property, plant and equipment is measured at cost less accumulated a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the early stages of contract depreciation and accumulated impairment charges.
Cost comprises the completion, when the outcome of a contract cannot be estimated reliably, purchase price or construction cost and any costs directly attributable contract revenues are recognised only to the extent of costs incurred that to making that asset capable of operating as intended.
The purchase are expected to be recoverable.
price or construction cost is the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other consideration given to acquire the asset.
Depreciation is Revenues from cost-plus-fee contracts are recognised on the basis of provided on a straight-line basis, other than on oil and gas assets, at the costs incurred during the year plus the fee earned measured by the following rates: cost-to-cost method.
Oil and gas facilities 10% 12.5% Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in Plant and equipment 4% 33% which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule Buildings and leasehold improvements 5% 33% of rates.
or lease term if shorter Office furniture and equipment 25% 50% Provision is made for all losses expected to arise on completion of Vehicles 20% 33% contracts entered into at the reporting date, whether or not work has commenced on these contracts.
Tangible oil and gas assets are depreciated, on a field-by-field basis, using the unit-of-production method based on entitlement to proven Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is and probable reserves, taking account of estimated future development sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance expenditure relating to those reserves: refer to page 41 for life of standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive these fields.
payments can be measured reliably.
Variation orders are only included in revenue when it is probable they will be accepted and can be measured Each assets estimated useful life, residual value and method of reliably and claims are only included in revenue when negotiations have depreciation are reviewed and adjusted if appropriate at the end reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the claim will be of the reporting period.
accepted and can be measured reliably.
No depreciation is charged on land or assets under construction.
Engineering & Production Services EPS Revenues from reimbursable contracts are recognised in the period in The carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment is which the services are provided based on the agreed contract schedule derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are of rates.
expected from its use or disposal.
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is included in Revenues from fixed-price contracts are recognised on the percentagethe other operating income line item in the consolidated income statement of-completion method, measured by milestones completed or earned when the asset is derecognised.
Gains are not classified as revenue.
value once the outcome of a contract can be estimated reliably.
In the Intangible assets non oil and gas assets early stages of contract completion, when the outcome of a contract Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are initially measured cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenues are recognised only to at cost being their fair values at the date of acquisition and are recognised the extent of costs incurred that are expected to be recoverable.
separately from goodwill where the asset is separable or arises from a Incentive payments are included in revenue when the contract is contractual or other legal right and its fair value can be measured reliably.
sufficiently advanced that it is probable that the specified performance After initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less standards will be met or exceeded and the amount of the incentive accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment charges.
Claims are only included in revenue Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their useful economic when negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is life using a straight-line method unless a better method reflecting the probable the claim will be accepted and can be measured reliably.
pattern in which the assets future economic benefits are expected to be consumed can be determined.
The amortisation charge in respect of Integrated Energy Services IES intangible assets is included in the selling, general and administration Production Enhancement Contracts PEC expenses line of the consolidated income statement.
The expected useful Revenue from PECs is recognised based on the volume of hydrocarbons lives of assets are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any change in the useful produced in the period and the agreed tariff and the reimbursement life or pattern of consumption of the intangible asset is treated as a change arrangement for costs incurred.
in accounting estimate and is accounted for prospectively by changing the amortisation period or method.
Intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 127 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its continued recoverable amount.
An impairment charge is recognised immediately in Oil and gas assets the consolidated income statement, unless the relevant asset is carried at Capitalised costs a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a The Groups activities in relation to oil and gas assets are limited to assets revaluation decrease.
in the evaluation, development and production phases.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of Oil and gas evaluation and development expenditure is accounted for the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but using the successful efforts method of accounting.
so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised Evaluation expenditures for the asset in prior reporting periods.
A reversal of an impairment loss is Expenditure directly associated with evaluation or appraisal activities recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement, unless the is capitalised as an intangible oil and gas asset.
Such costs include the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of costs of acquiring an interest, appraisal well drilling costs, payments to the impairment is treated as a revaluation increase.
contractors and an appropriate share of directly attributable overheads incurred during the evaluation phase.
For such appraisal activity, which Non-current assets held for sale may require drilling of further wells, costs continue to be recognised as an Non-current assets or disposal groups are classified as held for sale when asset whilst related hydrocarbons are considered capable of commercial it is highly probable that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered development.
Such costs are subject to technical, commercial and principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use management review to confirm the continued intent to develop, or and the non-current assets or disposal group are available for immediate otherwise extract value.
When this is no longer the case, the costs are sale in their present condition.
Assets are not depreciated when classified written-off in the consolidated income statement.
When such assets are as held for sale.
declared part of a commercial development, related costs are transferred to tangible oil and gas assets.
All intangible oil and gas assets are Inventories assessed for any impairment prior to transfer and any impairment charge Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs Development expenditures necessary to make the sale.
Cost comprises purchase price, cost of Expenditures relating to development of assets which includes the production, transportation and other directly allocable expenses.
construction, installation and completion of infrastructure facilities such as Costs of inventories, other than raw materials, are determined using platforms, pipelines and vessels are capitalised within property, plant and the first-in-first-out method.
Costs of raw materials are determined equipment as oil and gas facilities.
Expenditures relating to the drilling and using the weighted average method.
completion of production wells are capitalised within property, plant and equipment as oil and gas assets.
Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings Changes in unit-of-production factors Fixed-price lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction Changes in factors which affect unit-of-production calculations are dealt contracts are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position with prospectively in accordance with the treatment of changes in as follows: accounting estimates, not by immediate adjustment of amounts recognised in prior reporting periods.
For each contract, the accumulated cost incurred, as well as the estimated earnings recognised at the contracts  completion less provision for any anticipated losses, after deducting Provision for future decommissioning costs is made in full when the Group the progress payments received or receivable from the customers, has an obligation to dismantle and remove a facility or an item of plant and is presented in the work in progress line item in the consolidated to restore the site on which it is located, and when a reasonable estimate statement of financial position of that liability can be made.
The amount recognised is the present value Where the payments received or receivable for any contract exceeds of the estimated future decommissioning costs.
An amount equivalent to the cost and estimated earnings less provision for any anticipated the discounted initial provision for decommissioning costs is capitalised losses, the excess is presented in the billings in excess of cost and and amortised over the life of the underlying asset on a unit-of-production estimated earnings line item in the consolidated statement of basis over proven and probable reserves.
Any change in the present value financial position of the estimated decommissioning costs is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the oil and gas asset.
Pre-contract bid costs Pre-contract bid costs incurred are recognised as an expense until The unwinding of the discount applied to future decommissioning provisions there is a high probability that the contract will be awarded, after which is included in the finance costs line in the consolidated income statement.
all further costs are recognised as assets and expensed over the life of Impairment of assets excluding goodwill the contract.
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its Trade and other receivables property, plant and equipment and intangible assets to assess whether Trade receivables are recognised at original invoice amount less an there is an indication that those assets may be impaired.
If any such allowance for any amounts estimated to be uncollectable.
An estimate for indication exists, the Group makes an estimate of the assets recoverable doubtful debts is made when there is objective evidence that the collection amount.
An assets recoverable amount is the higher of its fair value less of the full amount is no longer probable under the terms of the original costs of disposal and its value in use.
In assessing value in use, the invoice.
Impaired debts are derecognised when they are assessed as estimated future cash flows attributable to the asset are discounted to uncollectable.
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
Fair value less costs of disposal is based on the risk-adjusted discounted cash flow models and includes value attributable to contingent resources.
A post-tax discount rate is used in such calculations.
128 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Cash and cash equivalents Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and in hand and Initial recognition and measurement short-term deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as financial assets at For the purpose of the consolidated statement of cash flow, cash and fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables, held-to-maturity cash equivalents consists of cash and cash equivalents as defined above, investments, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not recorded at fair value Provisions through profit or loss, transaction costs that are attributable to the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or acquisition of the financial asset.
constructive obligation as a result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable Subsequent measurement estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
If the time value of For purposes of subsequent measurement financial assets are classified money is material, provisions are discounted using a pre-tax rate that in the following categories: reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
Where Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of Loans and receivables time is recognised in the consolidated income statement as a finance cost.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Fair value measurement Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include financial assets The Group measures financial instruments, such as derivatives, and the held for trading and financial assets designated upon initial recognition Pnuco deferred consideration at fair value at each reporting date.
Fair at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets are classified as held value related disclosures for financial instruments are disclosed in note 18. for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term.
Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to are also classified as held for trading unless they are designated as transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants effective hedging instruments as defined by IAS 39 Financial Instruments at the measurement date.
The fair value measurement is based on the Recognition and Measurement.
Financial assets at fair value through presumption that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability profit or loss are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position takes place either: at fair value with net changes in fair value reported in the consolidated In the principal market for the asset or liability, or income statement.
In the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability The fair value changes to undesignated forward currency contracts are reported within the other operating income expenses line item in the The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible consolidated income statement.
The fair value changes relating to the by the Group.
amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area are recorded as an exceptional item in the consolidated income The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using the assumptions statement, see note 5.
The unwinding of discount on the Pnuco deferred that market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability, consideration is recognised as finance income in the consolidated income assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
No other fair value movements occurred during 2017.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account Loans and receivables a market participants ability to generate economic benefits by using Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the amortised cost using the effective interest rate EIR method, less circumstances and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair accumulated impairment charges.
Amortised cost is calculated by taking value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs the use of unobservable inputs.
that are an integral part of the EIR.
The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the consolidated income statement.
This category All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in generally applies to trade and other receivables.
the financial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is significant Financial liabilities to the fair value measurement as a whole: Initial recognition and measurement Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair financial assets or liabilities value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that designated as hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate.
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case or indirectly i. e. derived from prices of loans and borrowings and trade and other payables, net of directly Level 3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on attributable transaction costs.
observable market data unobservable inputs The Groups financial liabilities include trade and other payables, loans For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the consolidated financial and borrowings including bank overdrafts, financial guarantee contracts statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines whether transfers and derivative financial instruments.
have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation based on the lowest level input that is significant to the Subsequent measurement fair value measurement as a whole at the end of each reporting period.
For purposes of subsequent measurement financial liabilities are classified in the following categories: For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has determined classes Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of Loans and borrowings the asset or liability and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 129 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 2 Summary of significant accounting policies Derivative financial instruments and hedging The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency continued contracts and oil price collars and forward contracts to hedge its risks Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss associated with foreign currency and oil price fluctuations.
Such derivative Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities designated upon initial on which a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently recognition as at fair value through profit or loss.
Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative.
Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are incurred for the purpose of repurchasing in the near term.
This category also includes Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives derivative financial instruments entered into by the Group that are not that do not qualify for hedge accounting are taken to the consolidated designated as hedging instruments in hedge relationships as defined by income statement.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments Recognition and Measurement.
Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading The fair value of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity profiles.
The fair value of oil price collar contracts is determined by reference to Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the market values for similar instruments.
For the purposes of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as: Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the fair profit or loss are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the value of a recognised asset or liability: or criteria in IAS 39 are satisfied.
The Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability in cash flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a Loans and borrowings recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast transaction This is the category most relevant to the Group.
After initial recognition, The Group formally designates and documents the relationship between the interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method.
Gains and losses are recognised hedging instrument and the hedged item at the inception of the transaction, in the other operating income expenses line item in the consolidated as well as its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through hedge transactions.
The documentation also includes identification of the the EIR amortisation process.
hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of risk being hedged and how the Group will assess the hedging instruments Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or effectiveness in offsetting the exposure to changes in the hedged items premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the fair value or cash flows attributable to the hedged risk.
The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the consolidated documents its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing basis, income statement.
of whether the derivatives that are used in the hedging transactions are highly This category generally applies to interest-bearing loans and borrowings.
effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged items.
For more information, refer to note 27.
The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities designated as hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging Financial assets relationship, as follows: A financial asset or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset is Cash flow hedges derecognised where: For cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired hedging instrument is recognised directly in the consolidated statement The Group retains the right to receive cash flows from the asset, of other comprehensive income in net unrealised gains losses on but has assumed an obligation to pay them in full without material derivatives, while the ineffective portion is recognised in the consolidated delay to a third party under a pass-through arrangement: or income statement.
Amounts taken to other comprehensive income are The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows from the transferred to the consolidated income statement when the hedged asset and either a has transferred substantially all the risks and transaction affects the consolidated income statement.
The material forward rewards of the asset, or b has neither transferred nor retained rate movements in the Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts are substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred recorded as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement.
control of the asset If the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised Financial liabilities without replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive is discharged or cancelled or expires.
income remains separately in equity until the forecast transaction occurs and affects the consolidated income statement.
When a forecast If an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender, transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that on substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are was reported in other comprehensive income is immediately transferred substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as a to the consolidated income statement.
derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts together with any Embedded derivatives costs or fees incurred are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Contracts are assessed for the existence of embedded derivatives at the date that the Group first becomes party to the contract, with Offsetting of financial instruments reassessment only if there is a change to the contract that significantly Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount is modifies the cash flows.
Embedded derivatives which are not clearly and reported in the consolidated statement of financial position if there is a closely related to the underlying asset, liability or transaction are separated currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and and accounted for as standalone derivatives.
there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
130 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Petrofac Employee Benefit Trusts Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods The Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from, or paid to the Companies Employee Benefit Trust warehouse ordinary shares purchased taxation authorities.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the to satisfy various new share scheme awards made to the employees of the consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or Company and its joint venture partner employees, which will be transferred expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further to the members of the schemes on their respective vesting dates subject to excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability satisfying any performance conditions of each scheme.
The trusts continue for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or to be included in the Group financial statements under IFRS 10. substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.
Treasury shares Deferred tax is recognised on all temporary differences at the statement For the purpose of making awards under the Groups employee share of financial position date between the carrying amounts of assets and schemes, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the Petrofac liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies in the computation of taxable profit, with the following exceptions: Employee Benefit Trust.
All these shares have been classified in the Where the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
Shares goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business vested during the year are satisfied with these shares.
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss Share-based payment transactions In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with Employees including Directors of the Group receive remuneration in the investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, where the form of share-based payment, whereby employees render services in timing of reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and exchange for shares or rights over shares equity-settled transactions.
it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the Equity-settled transactions foreseeable future, and The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted.
a taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and carried forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised in the selling, general and administration expenses line item in the consolidated income statement, The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each statement together with a corresponding increase in other reserves in the consolidated of financial position date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer statement of financial position, over the period in which the relevant probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part employees become entitled to the award the vesting period.
The cumulative of the deferred tax assets to be utilised.
Unrecognised deferred tax expense recognised for equity-settled transactions at the end of the reporting assets are reassessed at each statement of financial position date and period until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future expired and the Groups best estimate of the number of equity instruments taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
The charge or credit to the consolidated income Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted basis statement for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the asset is realised or the recognised from the beginning to the end of the reporting period.
liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws enacted or substantively No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest because enacted at the statement of financial position date.
non-market performance and or service conditions have not been met.
Current and deferred tax is charged or credited directly to other Where awards include a market or non-vesting condition, the transactions comprehensive income or equity if it relates to items that are credited or are treated as vested irrespective of whether the market or non-vesting charged to, respectively, other comprehensive income or equity.
Otherwise, condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance and or service income tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Leases Equity awards cancelled, e. g. in case of good leavers, are treated as The determination of whether an arrangement is or contains a lease is vesting immediately on the date of cancellation, and any expense not based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date and whether recognised for the award at that date is recognised in the consolidated the fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the use of a specific income statement.
asset or assets or the arrangement conveys the right to use the asset.
Pensions and other long-term employment benefits Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease The Group has various defined contribution pension schemes in transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
accordance with the local conditions and practices in the countries in All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The amount charged to the consolidated income statement in respect of pension costs reflects the contributions payable in Assets held under finance leases are recognised as non-current assets of the year.
Differences between contributions payable during the year and the Group at the lower of their fair value at the date of commencement of the contributions actually paid are shown as either accrued liabilities or lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments.
These assets prepaid assets in the consolidated statement of financial position.
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term.
The corresponding liability to the lessor is The Groups other long-term employment benefits are provided in included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance accordance with the labour laws of the countries in which the Group lease obligation.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs operates, further details of which are given in note 28. in the consolidated income statement and reduction of the lease obligation Income taxes so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the Income tax expense represents the sum of current income tax and liability.
The Group has entered into various operating leases the payments deferred tax.
for which are recognised as an expense in the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 131 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 3 Segment information The Group organisational structure comprises the following three reporting segments: Engineering & Construction E&C, which provides lump-sum engineering, procurement and construction project execution services to the onshore and offshore oil and gas industry Engineering & Production Services EPS, which includes all reimbursable engineering and production services activities to the oil and gas industry Integrated Energy Services IES, which is focused on delivering value from the existing asset portfolio Management separately monitors the trading results of its three reporting segments for the purpose of making an assessment of their performance and for making decisions about how resources are allocated.
Interest costs and income arising from borrowings and cash balances which are not directly attributable to individual reporting segments are allocated to Corporate.
In addition, certain shareholder services related overheads, intra-group financing and consolidation adjustments are managed at a corporate level and are not allocated to reporting segments.
The presentation of the Group results below also separately identifies the effect of the Laggan-Tormore loss, asset impairments, certain re-measurements, restructuring and redundancy costs, contract migration costs, material deferred tax movements arising due to foreign exchange differences in jurisdictions where tax is computed based on the functional currency of the country and material forward rate movements in Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts.
Results excluding these exceptional items and certain re-measurements are used by management and presented in order to provide readers with a clear and consistent presentation of underlying business performance.
The following tables represent revenue and profit loss information relating to the Groups reporting segments for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the comparative information for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Year ended 31December2017 Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Exceptional Engineering & Production Energy Corporate adjustments & Business items and certain Construction Services Services & others eliminations performance re-measurements Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue External sales 4,782 1,385 228 6,395 6,395 Inter-segment sales 19 7 26 Total revenue 4,801 1,392 228 26 6,395 6,395 Profit loss from operations before tax and finance costs income 477 117 38 13 1 542 438 104 Finance costs 21 59 80 80 Finance income 7 3 10 10 Share of profits losses of associates joint ventures 1 12 11 11 Profit loss before tax 477 116 40 69 1 483 438 45 Income tax expense credit 132 27 19 2 138 66 72 Profit loss after tax 345 89 21 67 1 345 372 27 Non-controlling interests 3 1 2 2 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 342 90 21 67 1 343 372 29 1 EBITDA 522 123 97 12 730 1 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation unaudited.
132 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Production Energy Corporate adjustments & Construction Services Services & others eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment note 11 44 2 66 3 115 1 Intangible oil and gas assets note 15 1 1 Charges: Depreciation note 11 45 7 116 1 1 170 Amortisation and write off note 15 7 7 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements pre-tax 155 22 245 16 438 Other long-term employment benefits note 28 21 1 22 Share-based payments note 25 15 1 1 2 19 1 Negative capital expenditure includes reversal of excess accruals of US$9m in the current year note 15.
Year ended 31December2016 Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Exceptional Engineering & Production Energy Corporate adjustments & Business items and certain Construction Services Services & others eliminations performance re-measurements Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenue External sales 5,895 1,707 271 7,873 7,873 Inter-segment sales 33 18 51 Total revenue 5,928 1,725 271 51 7,873 7,873 Segment results 520 132 35 7 1 609 322 287 1 Laggan-Tormore loss 101 101 101 Profit loss from operations before tax and finance costs income 419 132 35 7 1 508 322 186 Finance costs 44 57 101 101 Finance income 3 3 3 Share of profits of associates joint ventures 1 7 8 4 12 Profit loss before tax 419 133 72 61 1 418 318 100 Income tax expense credit 95 22 30 2 85 1 86 Profit loss after tax 324 111 42 59 1 333 319 14 Non-controlling interests 13 13 13 Profit loss for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders 311 111 42 59 1 320 319 1 2 EBITDA 463 140 99 2 704 1 The Laggan-Tormore loss for the year comprises application of liquidated damages of US$80m and cost overruns of US$21m agreed as part of the final commercial settlement with our client in respect of the project.
2 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation unaudited.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 133 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 3 Segment information continued Engineering & Integrated Consolidation Engineering & Production Energy Corporate adjustments & Construction Services Services & others eliminations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Other segment information Capital expenditures: Property, plant and equipment note 11 122 1 15 5 143 1 Intangible oil and gas assets note 15 8 8 Charges: Depreciation note 11 44 5 123 9 1 182 Amortisation and write off note 15 2 4 6 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements pre-tax 35 4 272 7 318 Other long-term employment benefits note 28 22 2 24 Share-based payments note 25 15 1 1 17 1 Negative capital expenditure includes reversal of excess accruals of US$11m in the current year note 15.
Geographical segments The following tables present revenue from external customers based on their location and selected non-current assets by geographical segments for the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2016.
Year ended 31December2017 United Arab United Other Kuwait Saudi Arabia Oman Emirates Kingdom Algeria Malaysia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues fromexternal customers 2,028 1,181 850 562 514 386 231 643 6,395 United United Arab Other Malaysia Mexico Kingdom Emirates Tunisia Kuwait countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment note 11 373 389 152 93 42 31 12 1,092 Intangible oil and gas assets note 15 55 11 1 67 Other intangible assets note 15 9 9 Goodwill note 13 3 44 29 76 Year ended 31December2016 United Arab United Other Kuwait Oman Emirates Kingdom Saudi Arabia Algeria Malaysia countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Revenues fromexternal customers 2,185 1,477 1,326 668 798 463 357 599 7,873 United United Arab Other Malaysia Mexico Kingdom Emirates Tunisia Singapore countries Consolidated US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Non-current assets: Property, plant and equipment note 11 456 336 22 507 51 20 26 1,418 Intangible oil and gas assets note 15 68 11 1 80 Other intangible assets note 15 14 2 16 Goodwill note 13 3 40 29 72 Revenues disclosed in the above tables are based on where the project is located.
Revenues representing greater than 10% of Group revenues arose from two customers amounting to US$2,756m in the Engineering & Construction reporting segment 2016: two customers, US$1,967m in the Engineering & Construction reporting segment.
134 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements 4 Revenues and expenses a.
Revenue 2017 2016 US$m US$m Rendering of services 6,266 7,764 Sale of crude oil and gas 129 109 6,395 7,873 Revenue from rendering of services includes Engineering & Production Services reporting segment revenues of a pass-through nature with zero or low margins amounting to US$461m 2016: US$644m.
The revenues are included as external revenues of the Group since the risks and rewards associated with recognition are assumed by the Group.
Cost of sales Included in cost of sales is depreciation charged on property, plant and equipment of US$153m 2016: US$162m, intangible amortisation of US$1m 2016: US$1m and an oil and gas intangible write off amounting to US$6m 2016: US$nil.
Also included in cost of sales are forward points and ineffective portions on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges and losses on undesignated derivatives of US$5m 2016: US$1m.
These amounts are an economic hedge of foreign exchange risk but do not meet the criteria within IAS 39 Financial instruments recognition and measurement and are most appropriately recognised in cost of sales.
c. Selling, general and administration expenses 2017 2016 US$m US$m Staff costs 151 151 Depreciation note 11 17 20 Amortisation and write off note 15 5 Other operating expenses 67 68 235 244 Other operating expenses consist mainly of office, travel, professional services fees and contracting staff costs.
d. Staff costs 2017 2016 US$m US$m Total staff costs: Wages and salaries 955 957 Social security costs 39 38 Defined contribution pension costs 14 21 Other long-term employee benefit costs note 28 22 24 Share-based payments costs note 25 19 17 1,049 1,057 Of the US$1,049m 2016: US$1,057m of staff costs shown above, US$898m 2016: US$906m is included in cost of sales, with the remainder in selling, general and administration expenses.
The average number of payrolled staff employed by the Group during the year was 13,000 2016: 13,852. e. Auditors remuneration The Group paid the following amounts to its auditor in respect of the audit of the financial statements and for other non-prohibited services provided to the Group: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Group audit fee 2 2 Audit of accounts of subsidiaries 1 2 Others 1 1 4 5 Others include audit related assurance services of US$427,000 2016: US$430,000, tax advisory services of US$75,000 2016: US$130,000, tax compliance services of US$nil 2016: US$690,000 and other non-audit services of US$496,000 2016: US$50,000.
f. Other operating income 2017 2016 US$m US$m Foreign exchange gains 12 22 Other income 8 5 20 27 Other income includes US$4m recognised on re-recognition of finance leases relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia note 11.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 135 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 4 Revenues and expenses continued g. Other operating expenses 2017 2016 US$m US$m Foreign exchange losses 5 12 Other expenses 5 2 10 14 5 Exceptional items and certain re-measurements 2017 2016 US$m US$m Impairment of assets 345 212 Fair value re-measurements on receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area GSA 77 3 Forward rate movements in Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts in the E&C reporting segment 18 35 Group reorganisation and redundancy costs 4 6 Onerous leasehold property provisions 12 Other exceptional items 18 9 Fair value re-measurements and net costs relating to the cessation of the Berantai RSC contract 33 Ticleni onerous contract provision and foreign currency translation losses on disposal of subsidiary 20 438 318 Foreign exchange translation gains losses on deferred tax balances 11 5 Tax relief on exceptional items and certain re-measurements 55 4 66 1 Consolidated income statement charge for the year 372 319 Impairment of assets During the year, the Group reviewed the carrying amount of its Block PM304 oil and gas assets on a fair value basis using risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5% 2016: 9.5% which resulted in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$54m post-tax US$33m in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment 2016: pre-tax US$nil, post-tax US$nil.
which was allocated proportionately to property, plant and equipment and intangible oil and gas assets.
The oil price assumptions used by Management are the same as those disclosed in the oil price assumptions section on page 137.
A 10% decrease in oil prices would result in an additional pre-tax impairment charge of US$87m post-tax US$54m.
A further impairment charge of US$8m post-tax US$8m was also recognised in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment on the FPSO Opportunity reflecting the recoverable amount of the vessel 2016: US$15m, post-tax US$15m.
The FPSO Opportunity vessel was disposed during the year, and disposal proceeds of US$10m were realised against the carrying amount.
The JSD6000 installation vessel the vessel had a pre-impairment carrying amount of US$393m at 31 December 2017, and was reclassified from assets under construction within property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale, since the vessels carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a disposal transaction rather than through its intended use.
Based on discussions with potential counterparties, Management has determined that the recoverable amount of the vessel fair value less costs of disposal was lower than its carrying amount and as a result has recognised an impairment charge of US$176m post-tax US$176m as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement.
The vessel is available for immediate sale in its present condition and location.
The disposal is expected to be completed within 12 months from the end of the reporting period and relates to the Engineering & Construction reporting segment note 14.
On 18 December 2017, the Group migrated its existing Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC to acquire a 36% ownership interest in the Production Sharing Contract PSC.
At the time of migration, the existing oil and gas assets of the Santuario PEC were fair valued and this resulted in an impairment charge of US$29m post-tax US$20m being recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement note 10.
The Group re-assessed the recoverable amount of the Santuario PSC oil and gas asset at 31 December 2017, using risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5% and using the same oil price assumptions as those disclosed in the oil price assumptions section on page 137, and has concluded that no further impairment was required.
A 10% decrease in oil prices would result in an additional pre-tax impairment charge of US$45m post-tax US$31m.
At 31 December 2017, the Group re-assessed the recoverable amount of the Greater Stella Area GSA oil and gas asset using risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5% and using the same oil price assumptions as those disclosed in the oil price assumptions section on page 137, and as a result recognised an impairment charge of US$77m post-tax US$52m.
A 10% decrease in oil prices would result in an additional pre-tax impairment charge of US$23m post-tax US$23m.
During 2016, an impairment charge of US$197m post-tax US$197m was recognised as an exceptional item in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment relating to the Seven Energy available-for-sale investment.
Fair value less costs of disposal is determined by discounting the post-tax cash flows expected to be generated from oil and gas production net of disposal costs taking into account assumptions that market participants would typically use in estimating fair values.
Post-tax cash flows are derived from projected production profiles for each asset taking into account forward market commodity prices over the relevant period and, where external forward prices are not available, the Groups Board-approved five-year business planning assumptions were used.
As each field has different reservoir characteristics and 136 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements contractual terms the post-tax cash flows for each asset are calculated using individual economic models, which include assumptions around the amount of recoverable reserves, production costs, life of the field licence period and the selling price of the commodities produced.
Oil price assumptions For determining the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment and intangible oil and gas assets, Management has used forward curve oil prices of US$65 per barrel for 2018 and US$62 per barrel for 2019.
For later periods, the long-term planning oil price assumptions used were US$65 per barrel for 2020, US$70 per barrel for 2021 and US$75 per barrel for 2022 and beyond 2016: forward curve oil prices of US$59 per barrel for 2017 and US$58 per barrel for 2018.
For later periods, the long-term planning oil price assumptions used were US$70 per barrel for 2019, and US$75 per barrel for 2020 and beyond.
Fair value re-measurements on receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area GSA On 21 September 2017, upon receiving Oil and Gas Authority OGA approval in the UK, the Group converted its existing receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area to acquire a 20% ownership interest in the GSA field in the North Sea, UK note 10.
The Group revalued its loan receivable at the date of acquisition on a fair value basis using risk adjusted cash flow projections a Level 3 measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5% 2016: 9.5% which resulted in a US$77m pre-tax impairment charge post-tax US$77m for the period up to the date of acquisition, including a gain of US$6m between 30 June 2017 and the date of acquisition, in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment 2016: pre-tax US$3m, post-tax US$3m.
The oil price assumptions used were the same as those disclosed in note 10 on page 141.
Group reorganisation and redundancy costs The Group recognised a charge of US$4m, post-tax US$4m relating to staff redundancy costs and office closure costs mainly attributable to the Engineering & Production Services reporting segment 2016: US$6m, post-tax US$5m.
Onerous leasehold property provision An onerous leasehold property provision of US$12m was recognised for the estimated future costs relating to vacant and under utilised leasehold office buildings in the UK for which the leases expire in 2024 and 2026 respectively note 28.
Other exceptional items Other exceptional items include US$16m post-tax US$16m of legal and professional fees incurred in relation to the ongoing SFO investigation into the Group 2016: US$8m, post-tax US$8m and Mexican Production Enhancement Contract PEC migration costs of US$1m, post-tax US$1m 2016: US$1m, post-tax US$1m.
Taxation US$11m of foreign exchange gains on the retranslation of deferred tax balances denominated in Malaysian ringgits have been recognised during the year in respect of oil and gas activities in Malaysia, relating to the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment, due to an approximate 10% strengthening in the Malaysian ringgit against the US dollar 2016: US$5m loss.
Fair value re-measurements and net costs relating to the cessation of the Berantai RSC contract During 2016, the Group reached mutual agreement with PETRONAS for the cessation of the Berantai Risk Service Contract RSC with effect from 30 September 2016 and as a result recognised an exceptional charge of US$33m post-tax US$30m in the consolidated income statement in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment.
Ticleni onerous contract provision and foreign currency translation losses on disposal of subsidiary During 2016, an onerous contract provision of US$9m post-tax US$9m was recognised in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment principally to reflect the final commercial settlement in respect of the exit from the Ticleni Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Romania.
In addition, foreign currency translation losses of US$11m post-tax US$11m were reclassified from the consolidated statement of other comprehensive income to exceptional items in the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment upon disposal of the Ticleni PEC in Romania note 26.
6 Finance costs income 2017 2016 US$m US$m Finance costs Group borrowings 59 54 Finance leases 14 37 Unwinding of discount on provisions note 28 7 8 Others 2 Total finance costs 80 101 Finance income Bank interest 3 3 Unwinding of discount on receivable from Greater Stella Area joint operation partners note 18 4 Unwinding of discount on Pnuco deferred consideration note 18 3 Total finance income 10 3 The decrease in finance lease finance costs is mainly due to the transfer of the Berantai FPSO finance lease upon cessation of the Berantai RSC contract on 30 September 2016.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 137 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 7 Income tax a.
Tax on ordinary activities The major components of income tax expense credit are as follows: Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Total Business items and certain Total 1 performance re-measurements 2017 performance re-measurements 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Current income tax Current income tax expense 137 2 135 110 16 126 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4 4 5 5 Deferred tax Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 34 64 98 21 15 36 Derecognition of deferred tax previously recognised 39 39 Adjustments in respect of previous years 1 1 Income tax expense credit reported in the consolidated income statement 138 66 72 85 1 86 Income tax reported in equity Deferred tax related to items charged directly to equity 1 1 Foreign exchange movements on translation 5 5 Income tax reported in equity 1 1 9 9 Income tax expense reported in equity 6 6 10 10 1 This measurement is shown by Petrofac as a means of measuring underlying business performance, see note 2.
The split of the Groups tax charge between current and deferred tax varies from year to year depending largely on: the variance between tax provided on the percentage of completion of projects compared to that paid on accrued income for engineering, procurement and construction contracts: and the tax deductions available for expenditure on Production Sharing Contract PSC and Production Enhancement Contracts PECs, which are partially offset by the creation of losses.
See 7c below for the impact on the movements in the year.
Included within the US$39m deferred tax derecognition is $38m resulting from a combination of the previously announced changes in UK tax loss relief rules, which were enacted in October 2017, and reduction in UK profit forecasts.
The increase in the sterling to US dollar exchange rate resulted in an increase on translation of the net deferred tax asset in the UK.
b. Reconciliation of total tax charge A reconciliation between the income tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the Companys domestic tax rate is as follows: Exceptional Exceptional Business items and certain Total Business items and certain Total 1 performance re-measurements 2017 performance re-measurements 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Accounting profit before tax 483 438 45 418 318 100 At Jerseys domestic income tax rate of 0.0% 2016: 0.0% Expected tax charge in higher rate jurisdictions 73 66 7 58 15 43 Expenditure not allowable for income tax purposes 15 10 25 21 9 30 Income not subject to tax 4 4 8 8 Adjustments in respect of previous years 4 4 4 4 Adjustments in respect of deferred tax previously recognised unrecognised 39 2 37 Unrecognised deferred tax 21 3 24 13 1 14 Other permanent differences 1 11 10 3 6 9 Effect of change in tax rates 3 3 2 2 At the effective income tax rate of 160.0% 2016: 86.0% 138 66 72 85 1 86 1 This measurement is shown by Petrofac as a means of measuring underlying business performance, see note 2.
The Groups effective tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 160.0% 2016: 86.0%.
The Groups effective tax rate, excluding the impact of impairments and certain re-measurements, for the year ended 31 December 2017 is 28.6% 2016: 20.3%.
138 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements A number of factors have impacted the overall effective tax rate, with the key drivers being: the realisation of impairments without tax benefits and certain re-measurements which are not subject to tax, changes in the recognition of deferred tax and expenditure which is not deductible for tax purposes.
In line with prior years, the effective tax rate is also driven by the tax laws in the jurisdictions where the Group operates and generates profits.
c. Deferred tax Deferred tax relates to the following: Consolidated statement offinancial position Consolidated income statement 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Deferred tax liabilities Fair value adjustment on acquisitions 3 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 204 198 75 43 Profit recognition 42 56 14 14 Overseas earnings 8 6 2 3 Other temporary differences 6 5 4 Gross deferred tax liabilities 260 263 Deferred tax assets Losses available for offset 221 170 34 10 Decelerated depreciation for tax purposes 3 3 2 Share-based payment plans 4 3 Profit recognition 3 Decommissioning 39 36 3 21 Other temporary differences 27 20 8 7 Gross deferred tax assets 294 232 Net deferred tax asset liability and income tax credit 34 31 59 35 Of which: Deferred tax assets 101 63 Deferred tax liabilities 67 94 Included within the net deferred tax asset are tax losses of US$688m 2016: $659m.
This represents the losses which are expected to be utilised based on Managements projection of future taxable profits in the jurisdictions in which the losses reside.
The movements in deferred tax balances include foreign exchange on consolidation and elements included within business combinations within exceptional items and certain re-measurements notes 5 and 10 and are therefore not part of the tax charge credit to the consolidated income statement for the year.
These include deferred tax assets and liabilities, which net to US$nil, with respect to the acquisition of Greater Stella Area GSA licence and reclassification of deferred tax balances with respect to the migration of Santuario from a Production Enhancement Contract PEC to a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
d. Unrecognised tax losses and tax credits Deferred income tax assets are recognised for tax loss carry forwards and tax credits to the extent that the realisation of the related tax benefit through offset against future taxable profits is probable.
The Group did not recognise gross deferred income tax assets on tax losses of US$1,157m 2016: US$524m.
2017 2016 US$m US$m Expiration dates for tax losses No later than 2025 5 No expiration date 1,140 512 1,145 512 Tax credits no expiration date 12 12 1,157 524 During 2017, there has been no recognition of previously unrecognised losses 2016: US$nil.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 139 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 8 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders, after adjusting for any dilutive effect, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for the effects of ordinary shares granted under the share-based payment plans which are held in trust.
The following reflects the profit and share data used in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Profit attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items and certain re-measurements 343 320 Loss profit attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders for basic and diluted earnings per share including exceptional items and certain re-measurements 29 1 2017 2016 Shares Shares million million Weighted average number of ordinary shares for basic earnings per share 340 340 1 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares granted under share-based payment plans 3 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares for diluted earnings per share 340 343 1 For the year ended 31 December 2017, potentially issuable ordinary shares under the share-based payment plans are excluded from the diluted earnings per ordinary share calculation, as their inclusion would decrease the loss per ordinary share.
9 Dividends paid and proposed 2017 2016 US$m US$m Declared and paid during the year Equity dividends on ordinary shares: Final dividend for 2015: 43.8 cents per share 149 Interim dividend 2016: 22.0 cents per share 75 Final dividend for 2016: 43.8 cents per share 148 Interim dividend 2017: 12.7 cents per share 44 192 224 2017 2016 US$m US$m Proposed for approval at AGM not recognised as a liability as at 31 December Equity dividends on ordinary shares Final dividend for 2017: 25.3 cents per share 2016: 43.8 cents per share 88 152 10 Business combination Greater Stella Area GSA licence On 21 September 2017, upon receiving Oil and Gas Authority OGA approval in the UK, the Group acquired a 20% ownership interest in the GSA field in the North Sea.
The transaction was treated as an acquisition of an interest in a joint operation and IFRS 3 Business combination requirements were applied.
The interest acquired is classified as a joint operation, as contractually all the decisions concerning the relevant activities of the unincorporated joint arrangement require unanimous consent of the joint arrangement partners.
The acquisition related to the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment.
The Groups share of the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the joint operation recognised at the date of acquisition was as follows: US$m Property, plant and equipment note 11 149 Receivable from the Greater Stella Area joint operation partners note 18 80 229 Less: Provision for decommissioning note 28 19 Fair value of net assets acquired 210 140 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements At the date of acquisition, the receivable in respect of the GSA development had a carrying amount of US$250m note 18 of which, US$210m was contributed to acquire a 20% ownership interest in the joint operation which resulted in no gain or loss on the transaction.
The remaining US$40m was recognised as a long-term receivable from the GSA joint operation partners note 18.
The fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined using risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5%.
Management used forward curve oil prices of US$53 per barrel and forward curve gas prices of US$6 per mcf from the date of acquisition until June 2019.
For later periods, the long-term planning oil price assumptions used were US$70 per barrel from July 2019 to December 2019, and US$75 per barrel for 2020 and beyond.
The long-term planning gas price assumptions used were US$8 per mcf from July 2019 to December 2019, and US$9 per mcf for 2020 and beyond.
The financial asset represents the discounted value of the long-term receivables due from the GSA joint operation partners and is accounted for on an amortised cost basis using a contractually agreed discount rate of 8.5% with the unwinding interest income being recognised as finance income in the consolidated income statement.
There are no cash outflows arising from the transaction.
From the date of acquisition, the joint operation contributed US$20m of revenue and US$3m of profit to the Group.
If the above business combination had taken place upon achieving first oil in February 2017, the Groups share of revenue and profit for the year ended 31 December 2017 from the GSA joint operation would have been US$37m and US$4m respectively.
Migration of Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC to Production Sharing Contract PSC On 18 December 2017, the Group migrated its existing Santuario PEC to acquire a 36% ownership interest in the PSC.
The Group now has a proportional interest in the PSC assets, operates under a different commercial model and acts as an Operator on behalf of the joint arrangement partners.
The PSC will run for 25 years, with two optional five-year extensions.
The PSC was treated as a joint operation since contractually all the decisions concerning the relevant activities of the unincorporated joint arrangement require unanimous consent of the joint arrangement partners.
At the date of acquisition, the existing oil and gas assets of the Santuario PEC were fair valued using the risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5%.
The oil price assumptions used by Management were the same as those disclosed in note 5 on page 137.
This resulted in an impairment charge of US$29m post-tax US$20m being recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement note 5.
The carrying amount of the assets and liabilities shown below relating to the Santuario PEC were derecognised from the consolidated statement of financial position and represented the fair value of consideration for acquiring a 36% ownership interest in the PSC.
US$m Property, plant and equipment note 11 100 Intangible assets note 15 5 Inventories note 19 2 Trade and other receivables note 21 128 Provision for decommissioning note 28 10 Deferred tax liabilities note 7 2 Trade and other payables note 29 17 Carrying amount of net assets derecognised 206 The Groups share of fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the PSC at the date of acquisition was as follows: US$m Property, plant and equipment note 11 213 Less: Provision for decommissioning note 28 5 Deferred tax liabilities note 7 2 Fair value of net assets acquired 206 The fair value of property, plant and equipment was determined using risk adjusted cash flow projections Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy contained within IFRS 13 Fair value measurement discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5%.
From the date of acquisition, the PSC contributed US$1m of revenue and US$293,000 of profit to the Group.
If the above business combination had taken place at the beginning of the year, the Groups share of revenue and loss for the year ended 31 December 2017 from the PSC would have been US$24m and US$2m respectively.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 141 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 11 Property, plant and equipment Oil and Oil and Land, buildings Office Assets gas gas and leasehold Plant and furniture and under assets facilities improvements equipment Vehicles equipment construction Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Cost At 1 January 2016 1,426 621 364 50 25 193 318 2,997 Additions 15 37 1 1 9 80 143 Revision to decommissioning estimates note 28 101 101 Disposals 103 201 45 8 2 17 29 405 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 15 5 5 Transfers 10 10 Transfer to assets held for sale note 14 86 86 Write off 1 1 2 Exchange difference 4 3 11 18 At 1 January 2017 1,146 420 361 40 24 173 359 2,523 Recognised on acquisition note 10 362 362 Additions 65 7 8 35 115 Derecognised on migration of Santuario PEC to PSC note 10 218 218 Derecognised due to change in finance lease terms 239 239 Re-recognised due to change in finance lease terms 179 179 Disposals 47 2 49 Transfer from intangible oil and gas assets note 15 1 1 Transfer to assets held for sale note 14 393 393 Write off 1 1 Exchange difference 2 1 4 7 At 31December2017 1,354 313 370 41 24 182 1 2,285 Depreciation & impairment At 1 January 2016 525 254 211 38 22 143 29 1,222 Charge for the year 82 38 35 3 2 22 182 Charge for impairment note 5 15 15 Disposals 103 62 41 8 2 16 29 261 Transfer to assets held for sale note 14 38 38 Write off 1 1 2 Exchange difference 3 2 8 13 At 1 January 2017 466 245 201 31 22 140 1,105 Charge for the year 92 22 35 2 1 18 170 Charge for impairment note 5 135 25 176 336 Derecognised on migration of Santuario PEC to PSC note 10 118 118 Derecognised due to change in finance lease terms 91 91 Disposals 37 2 39 Transfer to assets held for sale note 14 176 176 Write off 1 1 Exchange difference 2 1 4 7 At 31December2017 575 164 238 34 23 159 1,193 Net carrying amount: 779 149 132 7 1 23 1 1,092 At 31December2016 680 175 160 9 2 33 359 1,418 The Group recognised US$149m note 10 of oil and gas assets from the acquisition of a 20% ownership interest in the Greater Stella Area GSA field in the North Sea, UK and US$213m note 10 from the acquisition of a 36% ownership interest in the Santuario Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Additions to oil and gas assets mainly comprise GSA capital expenditure of US$63m 2016: Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque PECs of US$12m.
Additions to land, buildings and leasehold improvements mainly comprise project camps and temporary facilities linked to the Engineering & Construction reporting segment.
142 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements During 2017, oil and gas assets having a carrying amount of US$129m note 10 relating to Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico were derecognised and converted to a 36% ownership interest in Production Sharing Contract PSC.
During 2017, the Group renegotiated its existing finance leases relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia.
As a result, the Group derecognised its existing finance lease assets included within oil and gas facilities with a carrying amount of US$148m and re-recognised finance lease assets of US$179m, under the revised finance lease terms, also within oil and gas facilities.
A net gain of US$4m note 4e was recognised on the re-recognition since the gain on re-recognition of finance lease asset was partly offset by a loss on re-recognition of finance lease liability, refer note 18 on page 150.
The negative transfer from intangible oil and gas assets of US$1m relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia is due to the reversal of excess capital expenditure accruals recorded in the prior year 2016: US$5m.
The disposal of oil and gas facilities having a carrying amount of US$10m relates to a disposal of the FPSO Opportunity vessel attributable to the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment note 5.
Of the total charge for depreciation in the consolidated income statement, US$149m 2016: US$162m is included in cost of sales and US$17m 2016: US$20m in selling, general and administration expenses.
At 31 December 2017, US$393m relating to the JSD6000 installation vessel was reclassified from assets under construction to assets held for sale note 14.
Borrowing costs capitalised on construction of the JSD6000 installation vessel in 2017 amounted to US$2m 2016: US$2m.
Included in oil and gas facilities and plant and equipment is property, plant and equipment under finance lease agreements, for which the net book values are as follows: 2017 2016 Net book value US$m US$m At 1 January 174 351 Disposal 139 Derecognised due to change in finance lease terms 148 Re-recognised due to change in finance lease terms 179 Impairment 18 Depreciation 37 38 At 31 December 150 174 Disposal of finance lease assets in 2016 related to the cancellation of Berantai FPSO finance lease and subsequent transfer of ownership of the vessel to the customer.
12 Non-controlling interests Petrofac Emirates LLC, a non-wholly owned subsidiary, is determined to be material to the Group.
The proportion of the nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group is disclosed in note 34.
2017 2016 Movement of non-controlling interest in Petrofac Emirates LLC US$m US$m At 1 January 25 4 Profit for the year 3 13 Net unrealised gains on derivatives 11 9 Dividend paid 3 1 At 31 December 36 25 The balance of non-controlling interests relates to other non-wholly owned subsidiaries that are not considered to be material to the Group.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 143 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 12 Non-controlling interests continued Summarised financial information for Petrofac Emirates LLC, a non-wholly owned subsidiary, which has non-controlling interests that are material to the Group is shown below: 2017 2016 Summarised income statement US$m US$m Revenue 534 1,194 Cost of sales 495 1,095 Gross profit 39 99 Selling, general and administration expenses 19 41 Finance expense 8 6 Profit for the year 12 52 Attributable to non-controlling interest 3 13 Net unrealised losses on derivatives Net unrealised losses on derivatives at 1 January 48 83 Other comprehensive income during the year 43 35 Net unrealised losses on derivatives at 31 December 5 48 Net unrealised losses on derivatives attributable to non-controlling interest note 26 1 12 Total comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interest 14 22 Summarised statement of financial position Non-current assets 200 221 Current assets 592 715 Total assets 792 936 Non-current liabilities 3 4 Current liabilities 646 832 Total liabilities 649 836 Total equity 143 100 Attributable to non-controlling interest 36 25 Summarised cash flow information Operating 187 80 Investing 1 10 Dividends of US$12m were declared during 2017 2016: US$4m, of which US$3m was attributable to the non-controlling interest 2016: US$1m.
There was no cash outflow to the non-controlling interest since the dividends were adjusted against the receivable balance included within current assets in the individual financial statements of Petrofac Emirates LLC.
13 Goodwill A summary of the movements in goodwill is presented below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m At 1 January 72 80 Exchange difference 4 8 At 31 December 76 72 Goodwill resulting from business combinations has been allocated to two cash-generating units for impairment testing as follows: Engineering & Construction Engineering & Production Services These cash-generating units represent the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The Group considers cash-generating units to be individually significant where they represent greater than 25% of the total goodwill balance.
Recoverable amounts have been determined based on value in use calculations, using discounted pre-tax cash flow projections.
Management has adopted projection periods appropriate to each units value in use.
For the Engineering & Construction and Engineering & Production Services cash-generating units the cash flow projections are based on a five-year business plan approved by the Board.
144 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each group of cash-generating units 2017 2016 US$m US$m Engineering & Construction 32 32 Engineering & Production Services 44 40 76 72 Key assumptions used in value in use calculations Market share: the key management assumptions relate to maintaining existing levels of business and growing organically in international markets.
Discount rate: management has used a pre-tax discount rate of 11.6% per annum 2016: 11.6% per annum derived from the estimated weighted average cost of capital of the Group.
A 100 basis point increase in the pre-tax discount rate to 12.6% would result in no additional impairment charges.
14 Assets held for sale The JSD6000 installation vessel the vessel had a pre-impairment carrying amount of US$393m at 31 December 2017, and was reclassified from assets under construction within property, plant and equipment to assets held for sale, since the vessels carrying amount is expected to be recovered principally through a disposal transaction rather than through its intended use.
Based on discussions with potential counterparties, Management has determined that the recoverable amount of the vessel fair value less costs of disposal was lower than its carrying amount and as a result has recognised an impairment charge of US$176m as an exceptional item note 5 in the consolidated income statement.
The disposal is expected to be completed within 12 months from the end of the reporting period and relates to the Engineering & Construction reporting segment.
The fair value less cost of disposal of the vessel used in the impairment calculation on reclassifying the vessel as an asset held for sale was considered by Management to be a reasonable estimate.
Commercial negotiations with the counterparty had not concluded at the end of the reporting period and the final contractual fair value less cost of disposal in the sale and purchase agreement may be less than the amount used in the reclassification impairment calculation.
If this were to occur then an additional impairment charge would be recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The assets and liabilities shown below are classified as held for sale at 31 December: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Assets held for sale Property, plant and equipment note 11 217 48 Other intangible assets note 15 2 Trade and other receivables note 21 78 217 128 2017 2016 US$m US$m Liabilities associated with assets held for sale Provision for decommissioning note 28 21 Trade and other payables note 29 13 34 During 2016, the Group signed a sale and purchase agreement with Schlumberger for the disposal of its Pnuco Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico.
The disposal, which related to Integrated Energy Services reporting segment, was completed in 2017 and no gain or loss was recognised.
The net assets of Pnuco PEC at the time of disposal were US$95m, where US$1m represented a working capital change during the year.
As part of the disposal proceeds, US$10m was received in cash during August 2017 and the balance of US$85m note 18, discounted using post-tax rate of 9.5%, represents deferred consideration recoverable over a period of 12 years and is primarily contingent upon Pnuco PEC being migrated to a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
The deferred consideration was initially recorded at fair value and will subsequently be also measured at fair value through profit or loss with any fair value gains and losses recorded as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement.
The unwinding of the discount on the deferred consideration of US$3m was recognised as finance income in the consolidated income statement.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 145 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 15 Intangible assets 2017 2016 US$m US$m Intangible oil and gas assets Cost: At 1 January 80 86 Additions 8 3 Accrual adjustment 9 11 Transfer to oil and gas assets note 11 1 5 Impairment note 5 7 Write off note 4b and note 4c 6 3 Net book value of intangible oil and gas assets at 31 December 67 80 Other intangible assets Cost: At 1 January 41 48 Derecognised on Santuario PEC to PSC note 10 6 Disposal 2 Impairment note 5 1 Write off 9 Transfer to assets held for sale note 14 2 Exchange difference 1 3 At 31 December 26 41 Accumulated amortisation: At 1 January 25 27 Amortisation note 4b and note 4c 1 3 Derecognised on Santuario PEC to PSC note 10 1 Disposal 2 Write off 9 Exchange difference 1 3 At 31 December 17 25 Net book value of other intangible assets at 31 December 9 16 Total intangible assets 76 96 Intangible oil and gas assets Oil and gas assets part of the Integrated Energy Services reporting segment additions comprise US$7m 2016: US$3m of capitalised expenditure on the Groups assets in Malaysia.
Accrual adjustment of US$9m 2016: US$11m represents a reversal of excess capital expenditure accruals in the prior year.
During 2017, intangible oil and gas assets having a carrying amount of US$5m note 10 relating to Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico were derecognised and converted to a 36% ownership interest in a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Other intangible assets Other intangible assets comprising project development expenditure, customer contracts, proprietary software and patent technology are being amortised over their estimated economic useful life on a straight-line basis and the related amortisation charges included in cost of sales and selling, general and administration expenses note 4b and 4c.
146 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures Associates Joint ventures Total US$m US$m US$m As at 1 January 2016 69 5 74 Additions 7 7 Share of profits 11 1 12 Dividends received 27 1 28 As at 1 January 2017 60 5 65 Loans advanced repaid by associates joint ventures 8 10 2 Share of profits losses 12 1 11 Dividends received 3 1 4 As at 31 December 2017 61 13 74 Dividends received during the year include US$2m received from PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited, US$1m received from PetroFirst Infrastructure 2 Limited and US$1m received from TTE Petrofac Limited 2016: US$24m received from PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited, US$2m received from PetroFirst Infrastructure 2 Limited, US$1m received from TTE Petrofac Limited and US$1m receivable from PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited.
During 2016, the Group acquired 10% of the share capital of PetroFirst Infrastructure 2 Limited amounting to US$7m out of which US$5m was paid in cash and the balance of US$2m represented deferred consideration.
The investment is classified as an associate due to the Groups representation on the board of directors and ability to exercise significant influence over the investee.
Associates 2017 2016 US$m US$m PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited 16 15 Petrofac FPF1 Limited 40 40 PetroFirst Infrastructure 2 Limited 5 5 61 60 Interest in associates 1 Summarised financial information of associates, based on their IFRS financial statements, and a reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in associates in the consolidated statement of financial position are set out below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Revenue 104 118 Cost of sales 38 40 Gross profit 66 78 Finance expense, net 11 19 Profit 55 59 Groups share of profit for the year 12 11 Non-current assets 418 444 Current assets 39 71 Total assets 457 515 Non-current liabilities 123 161 Current liabilities 43 63 Total liabilities 166 224 Net assets 291 291 Groups share of net assets 61 60 Carrying amount of the investment in associates 61 60 1 A list of all associates is disclosed in note 34.
No associates had contingent liabilities or capital commitments as at 31 December 2017 and 2016.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 147 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 16 Investments in associates and joint ventures continued Joint ventures 2017 2016 US$m US$m Takatuf Petrofac Oman LLC 10 Spiecapag Petrofac International Limited 2 2 TTE Petrofac Limited 1 2 China Petroleum Petrofac Engineering Services Coperatief U.
1 13 5 Interest in joint ventures 1 Summarised financial information of the joint ventures, based on their IFRS financial statements, and a reconciliation with the carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures in the consolidated statement of financial position are set out below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Revenue 1 12 Cost of sales 1 7 Gross profit 5 Selling, general and administration expenses 2 2 Loss profit before income tax 2 3 Income tax 1 Loss profit 2 2 Groups share of loss profit for the year 1 1 Non-current assets 34 9 Current assets 8 13 Total assets 42 22 Non-current liabilities 1 Current liabilities 11 11 Total liabilities 11 12 Net assets 31 10 Groups share of net assets 13 5 Carrying amount of the investment in joint ventures 13 5 1 A list of all joint ventures is disclosed in note 34.
The Groups share of capital commitments relating to the construction of a new training centre in Oman was US$5m 2016: US$6m.
No joint ventures had contingent liabilities as at 31 December 2017 and 2016.
The joint ventures cannot distribute their distributable reserves until they obtain consent from the venturers.
17 Available-for-sale investment 2017 2016 US$m US$m As at 1 January 169 Additions 12 Impairment note 5 181 As at 31 December During 2016, an impairment charge of US$181m was recognised relating to the Seven Energy available-for-sale investment which, together with the US$16m reduction previously recognised through the reserve for unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale investment which had been reclassified to the consolidated income statement, amounted to a total exceptional charge of US$197m note 5.
At 31 December 2017, the fair value of Seven Energy available-for-sale investment was re-assessed and no fair value changes were noted.
148 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements 18 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities 2017 2016 Other financial assets Classification US$m US$m Non-current Receivable from joint operation partners for finance leases Loans and receivables 305 235 Receivable from the Greater Stella Area joint operation partners note 10 Loans and receivables 124 Pnuco deferred consideration note 14 Fair value through profit and loss 49 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 33 Designated as cash flow hedges 23 42 Restricted cash Loans and receivables 40 41 Advances relating to provision for decommissioning liability Loans and receivables 12 553 318 Current Receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area Fair value through profit and loss 276 Receivable from joint operation partners for finance leases Loans and receivables 76 179 Pnuco deferred consideration note 14 Fair value through profit and loss 39 Receivable under the Berantai RSC Fair value through profit and loss 71 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 33 Designated as cash flow hedges 21 9 Forward currency contracts undesignated note 33 Fair value through profit and loss 1 5 Restricted cash Loans and receivables 9 6 146 546 Other financial liabilities Non-current Finance lease creditors note 30 Loans and borrowings 435 336 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 33 Designated as cash flow hedges 8 12 443 348 Current Finance lease creditors note 30 Loans and borrowings 112 260 Forward currency contracts designated as hedges note 33 Designated as cash flow hedges 16 88 Forward currency contracts undesignated note 33 Fair value through profit and loss 9 4 Oil derivative note 33 Designated as cash flow hedges 2 2 Interest payable Fair value through profit and loss 12 14 151 368 A reconciliation of the fair value measurement of the Pnuco deferred consideration is presented below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Initial recognition note 14 85 Unwinding of discount 3 As at 31 December 88 The receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area was converted into a 20% ownership interest in the GSA joint operation on 21 September 2017 upon receiving OGA approval note 10.
The fair value changes during the year have been calculated using the risk adjusted cash flow projections discounted at a post-tax rate of 9.5% 2016: 9.5%.
A reconciliation of the fair value measurement of the amounts receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area is presented below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m As at 1 January 276 160 Advances during the year to the partners 51 119 Fair value loss note 5 77 3 Converted to 20% interest in GSA joint operation note 10 250 As at 31 December 276 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 149 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 18 Other financial assets and other financial liabilities continued During 2016, the cessation of the Berantai Risk Sharing Contract RSC was completed with PETRONAS and the outstanding receivable of US$71m at 31 December 2016 was recovered in full during the year ended 31 December 2017.
A reconciliation of the fair value measurement of the amounts receivable under the Berantai RSC is presented below: 2017 2016 US$m US$m As at 1 January 71 357 Billings during the year 62 Fair value loss included in revenue 45 1 Receipts during the year 71 303 As at 31 December 71 1 Receipts during the year includes US$45m from non-recourse factoring 2016: US$257m.
The receivable from the Greater Stella Area GSA joint operation partners represents the discounted value of the long-term receivables due from the GSA joint operation partners, recognised from the acquisition of a 20% ownership interest in the GSA field in the North Sea, UK note 10 and is accounted for on an amortised cost basis using a contractually agreed discount rate of 8.5% with the unwinding interest income being recognised as finance income in the consolidated income statement.
During the year, the Group recognised unwinding interest income of US$4m 2016: US$nil.
The current and non-current receivable from joint operation partners represents the 70% gross up on the finance lease liability in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia that are included 100% in the Groups consolidated statement of financial position.
This treatment is necessary to reflect the legal position of the Group as the contracting entity for this lease.
The Groups 30% share of this liability is US$163m 2016: US$177m.
During 2017, advances relating to the decommissioning provision of US$12m were reclassified from trade and other receivables to non-current other financial assets and represents advance payments to PETRONAS for settling decommissioning liability, relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia, when they become due.
Restricted cash comprises deposits with financial institutions and joint operation partners securing various guarantees and performance bonds associated with the Groups operating activities note 30.
This cash will be released on the maturity of these guarantees and performance bonds assuming that the related conditions to release such amounts were satisfied.
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities Cash outflows paid by joint operation 31 December 1 January 2017 Cash inflows Cash outflows Derecognised New leases partners 2017 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,762 1,106 1,303 1,565 Finance lease creditors 596 43 506 597 97 547 At 31 December 2017 2,358 1,106 1,346 506 597 97 2,112 1 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings excludes overdrafts since these are included within cash and equivalents.
Debt acquisition costs paid during the year amounted to US$1m.
The Group records the gross liability for finance leases in its financial statements, however the cashflows above represent the Groups 30% share of the payments.
As a result, the Group derecognised its existing finance lease liabilities of US$506m Groups 30% ownership interest US$152m and re-recognised finance lease liabilities of US$597m Groups 30% ownership interest US$179m, under the revised finance lease terms.
A net gain of US$4m note 4e was recognised on the re-recognition since the gain on re-recognition of finance lease asset was partly offset by a loss on re-recognition of finance lease liability, refer note 11 on page 143.
Fair value measurement The following financial instruments are measured at fair value using the hierarchy below for determination and disclosure of their respective fair values: Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or liabilities Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly i. e. as prices or indirectly i. e. derived from prices Level 3: Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable 150 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Set out below is a comparison of the carrying amounts and fair values of financial instruments as at 31 December: Level Carrying amount Fair value 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial assets Cash and short-term deposits Level 2 967 1,167 967 1,167 Restricted cash Level 2 49 47 49 47 Receivable from joint operation partners for finance leases Level 2 381 414 381 414 Receivable from the Greater Stella Area joint operation partners Level 2 124 124 Pnuco deferred consideration Level 3 88 88 Receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area Level 3 276 276 Receivable under Berantai RSC Level 2 71 71 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 43 47 43 47 Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 1 1 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 1 3 1 3 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 1 5 1 5 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Senior Notes Level 2 676 674 677 677 Term loans Level 2 198 300 200 300 Revolving Credit Facility Level 2 550 637 555 645 Export Credit Agency funding Level 2 124 129 133 140 Bank overdrafts Level 2 31 44 31 44 Finance lease creditors Level 2 547 596 547 596 Interest payable Level 2 12 14 12 14 Oil derivative Level 2 2 2 2 2 Euro forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 11 45 11 45 Malaysian ringgit forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 1 15 1 15 Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 12 30 12 30 Japanese yen forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 5 5 Sterling forward currency contracts designated as cash flow hedge Level 2 5 5 Sterling forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 9 1 9 1 Euro forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 2 2 Kuwaiti dinar forward currency contracts undesignated Level 2 1 1 The Group considers that the carrying amounts of trade and other receivables, work-in-progress, trade and other payables, other current and non-current financial assets and liabilities approximate their fair values and are therefore excluded from the above table.
The fair value of the financial assets and liabilities is included at the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values: The Group enters into derivative financial instruments with various counterparties, principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings.
Derivatives valued using valuation techniques with market observable inputs are mainly foreign exchange forward contracts and oil derivatives.
Externally provided sources of quoted market prices have been used to determine the fair values of forward currency contracts and oil derivatives.
The fair values of long-term interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease creditors are equivalent to their amortised costs determined as the present value of discounted future cash flows using the effective interest rate.
The Pnuco deferred consideration, discounted using a post-tax rate of 9.5%, represents deferred consideration recoverable over a period of 12 years and is primarily contingent upon the Pnuco Production Enhancement Contract PEC being migrated to a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
The carrying amount of the deferred consideration is not considered to be sensitive to any changes to these inputs since the terms of the deferred consideration ensure that the Group will recover the carrying amount of the deferred consideration over the 12 year period.
19 Inventories 2017 2016 US$m US$m Crude oil 2 2 Stores and raw materials 6 9 8 11 During 2017, inventories having a carrying amount of US$2m note 10 relating to the Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico were derecognised and converted to a 36% ownership interest in a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Inventories relating to the FPSO Opportunity vessel were impaired during the year and an impairment charge of US$1m 2016: US$nil was recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement note 5.
Included within cost of sales in the consolidated income statement are costs of inventories expensed of US$97m 2016: US$115m.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 151 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 20 Work in progress and billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cost and estimated earnings 22,799 25,161 Less: billings 20,576 22,979 Work in progress 2,223 2,182 Billings 5,897 288 Less: cost and estimated earnings 5,699 244 Billings in excess of cost and estimated earnings 198 44 Total cost and estimated earnings 28,498 25,405 Total billings 26,473 23,267 21 Trade and other receivables 2017 2016 US$m US$m Trade receivables 1,108 1,377 Retentions receivables 379 305 Advances 261 293 Prepayments and deposits 35 28 Receivables from joint operation partners 96 50 Other receivables 141 109 2,020 2,162 Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and credit terms are generally granted to customers on 30 to 60 days basis.
Trade receivables are reported net of provision for impairment.
The movements in the provision for impairment against trade receivables are as follows: 2017 2016 Specific General Specific General impairment impairment Total impairment impairment Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 11 2 13 11 1 12 Charge reversal for the year 3 1 2 1 1 Amounts written off 1 1 At 31 December 13 1 14 11 2 13 At 31 December, the analysis of trade receivables is as follows: Number of days past due Neither past due nor 30 3160 6190 91120 121360 360 1 1 impaired days days days days days days Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Unimpaired 769 84 59 19 3 39 110 1,083 Impaired 4 20 15 39 769 84 59 19 7 59 125 1.122 Less: impairment provision 1 13 14 Net trade receivables 2017 769 84 59 19 7 58 112 1,108 Unimpaired 1,049 78 55 21 25 64 70 1,362 Impaired 1 1 16 10 28 1,049 79 55 21 26 80 80 1,390 Less: impairment provision 1 3 9 13 Net trade receivables 2016 1,049 78 55 21 26 77 71 1,377 1 Included within these aged trade receivables at 31 December 2017 are US$96m in the Engineering & Construction reporting segment which will be recovered from the customers as part of the final settlement on the projects.
Management reviewed the recoverability of these receivables and concluded that these will be recovered in full and no impairment provision is necessary at the end of the reporting period.
152 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements The credit quality of trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired is assessed by management with reference to the historic payment track records of the counterparties together with the relevant current information.
In the ordinary course of business in engineering, procurement and construction project execution services contracts, customers retain amounts of progress billings retentions receivables that are not paid until the satisfaction of conditions specified in the contract for the payment of such amounts or until defects have been rectified.
During 2017, trade receivables amounting to US$128m note 10 relating to the Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico were derecognised and converted to a 36% ownership interest in Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Also trade receivables of US$12m relating to advance payments to PETRONAS for settling decommissioning liabilities relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia when they become due, were reclassified to non-current other financial assets, note 18 2016: trade and other receivables of US$78m were reclassified to assets held for sale, note 14.
Advances represent payments made to certain subcontractors for projects in progress, that will be adjusted against the future progress billings by the subcontractors.
Receivables from joint operation partners are amounts recoverable from partners on Block PM304, Santuario PSC and on consortium contracts in the Engineering & Construction reporting segment.
Other receivables mainly consist of Value Added Tax recoverable of US$77m 2016: US$66m.
All trade and other receivables are expected to be settled in cash.
Certain trade and other receivables will be settled in cash using currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, and will be largely paid in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
22 Cash and short-term deposits 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 808 1,009 Short-term deposits 159 158 Total cash and bank balances 967 1,167 Short-term deposits are made for varying periods of between one day and three months depending on the immediate cash requirements of the Group, and earn interest at respective short-term deposit rates.
The fair value of cash and bank balances is US$967m 2016: US$1,167m.
For the purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash at bank and in hand 808 1,009 Short-term deposits 159 158 Bank overdrafts note 27 31 44 936 1,123 23 Share capital The share capital of the Company as at 31 December was as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Authorised 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2016: 750,000,000 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 15 15 Issued and fully paid 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 2016: 345,912,747 ordinary shares of US$0.020 each 7 7 There was no movement in the number of issued and fully paid ordinary shares during the year.
The share capital comprises only one class of ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares carry a voting right and the right to a dividend.
Share premium: The balance on the share premium account represents the amount received in excess of the nominal value of the ordinary shares.
Capital redemption reserve: The balance on the capital redemption reserve represents the aggregated nominal value of the ordinary shares repurchased and cancelled.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 153 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 24 Treasury shares For the purpose of making awards under the Groups share-based payment plans, shares in the Company are purchased and held by the Petrofac Employee Benefit Trust and the Petrofac Joint Venture Companies Employee Benefit Trust.
These shares have been classified in the consolidated statement of financial position as treasury shares within equity.
The movements in total treasury shares are shown below: 2017 2016 Number US$m Number US$m At 1 January 5,932,474 105 6,015,520 111 Treasury shares purchased during the year 3,406,314 39 2,673,796 36 Share-based payments vested during the year 3,112,413 42 2,756,842 42 At 31 December 6,226,375 102 5,932,474 105 Shares vested during the year include dividend shares of 303,554 shares 2016: 186,369 shares.
25 Share-based payment plans Performance Share Plan PSP Under the PSP, share awards are granted to Executive Directors and a restricted number of other senior executives of the Group.
The shares vest at the end of three years subject to continued employment and the achievement of certain pre-defined market and non-market-based performance conditions.
The Group revised its PSP during 2017, and the market performance based element of new awards will be 70% dependent on the total shareholder return TSR of the Group compared with an index composed of selected relevant companies for earlier awards TSR was 50%.
The fair value of the shares vesting under this portion of the award is determined by an independent valuer using a Monte Carlo simulation model taking into account the terms and conditions of the plan rules and using the following assumptions at the date of grant: Executive Other All All All Directors participants participants participants participants 2017 2017 2016 2015 2014 awards awards awards awards awards Expected share price volatility based on median of comparator groups three-year volatilities 39.1% 39.1% 31.9% 28.5% 32.7% Share price correlation with comparator group 26.6% 26.6% 28.9% 26.4% 40.4% Risk-free interest rate 0.2% 0.2% 0.6% 0.7% 1.2% Expected life of share award 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years 3 years Fair value of TSR portion 99p 124p 747p 562p 827p The non-market-based condition governing the vesting of the remaining 30% of the 2017 awards is subject to achieving certain strategic targets i. e. cumulative Engineering & Construction business performance net income, cumulative Engineering & Production Services business performance net income, cumulative divestment proceeds and cumulative cash conversion over a three-year period.
Each strategic target accounts for 7.5% for the purposes of awards vesting.
For earlier awards 50% of the total award is subject to achieving between 0.0% and 7.5% earnings per share EPS growth targets over a three-year period.
The fair value of the equity-settled award relating to the non-market-based condition is estimated, based on the quoted closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the date of grant with an assumed annual vesting rate built into the calculation subsequently trued up to the end of the reporting period on the actual leaver rate during the period from award date to the end of the reporting period over the three-year vesting period of the plan.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP Under the DBSP selected employees are required to defer a proportion of their annual cash bonus into Company shares Invested Shares.
Following such an award, the Company will generally grant the participant an additional award of shares Matching Shares bearing a specified ratio to the number of Invested Shares, typically a 1:1 ratio.
Subject to a participants continued employment, Invested and Matching Share awards may either vest 100% on the third anniversary of the grant date: or alternatively, vest one-third on the first anniversary of the grant, one-third on the second anniversary and the final proportion on the third anniversary of the grant date.
At the end of the reporting period the value of bonuses to be settled by shares cannot be determined until the Remuneration Committee has approved the portion of the employee bonuses to be settled in shares.
Once the portion of the bonus to be settled in shares is determined, the final bonus liability to be settled in shares is transferred to the reserve for share-based payments.
The costs relating to Matching Shares are recognised over the corresponding vesting period and the fair values of the equity-settled Matching Shares granted to employees are based on the quoted closing market price at the date of grant with the charge to the consolidated income statement adjusted to reflect the expected vesting rate of the plan.
Share Incentive Plan SIP All UK employees, including UK Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the SIP.
Employees may invest up to sterling 1,800 per tax year of gross salary or, if lower, 10% of salary to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
There is no holding period for these shares.
Restricted Share Plan RSP Selected employees are allocated grants of shares on an ad hoc basis.
The RSP is primarily, but not exclusively, used to make awards to individuals who join the Group part way through the year, having left accrued benefits with a previous employer.
The fair values of the awards granted under the RSP at various grant dates during the year are based on the quoted market price at the date of grant adjusted for an assumed vesting rate over the relevant vesting period.
154 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Share-based payment plans information The details of the fair values and assumed vesting rates of the share-based payment plans are below: PSP non-market based condition DBSP RSP 2017: other participants Earlier awards: all participants Executive Directors October awards Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed Fair value Assumed per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate per share vesting rate 2017 awards 441p 95.0% 353p 95.0% 839p 94.8% 572p 95.0% 2016 awards 982p 0.0% 911p 0.0% 982p 88.6% 859p 91.9% 2015 awards 890p 0.0% 890p 85.7% 927p 95.0% 2014 awards 1,376p 0.0% 1,376p 79.9% 1,157p 76.5% The following table shows the movements in the number of shares held under the share-based payment plans outstanding but not exercisable: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1 1 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Outstanding at 1 January 1,457,306 1,484,976 5,055,234 5,352,633 397,891 268,345 6,910,431 7,105,954 Granted during the year 1,213,622 751,664 3,087,292 2,560,678 65,983 312,262 4,366,897 3,624,604 Vested during the year 2,727,254 2,469,065 161,638 163,393 2,888,892 2,632,458 Forfeited during the year 403,010 779,334 254,284 389,012 25,964 19,323 683,258 1,187,669 Outstanding at 31 December 2,267,918 1,457,306 5,160,988 5,055,234 276,272 397,891 7,705,178 6,910,431 1 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
All Value Creation Plan VCP awards lapsed in 2016 and hence are excluded from the above tables.
The average share price of the Company shares during 2017 was US$7.83, sterling equivalent of 6.06 2016: US$11.03, sterling equivalent of 8.18.
The number of outstanding shares excludes the 8% uplift adjustment made in respect of the EnQuest demerger and dividend shares shown below: PSP DBSP RSP Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 1 1 Number Number Number Number Number Number Number Number EnQuest 8% uplift 318 83 401 Dividend shares 199,135 134,947 573,987 471,745 25,204 14,405 798,326 621,097 Outstanding at 31 December 199,135 134,947 573,987 472,063 25,204 14,488 798,326 621,498 1 Includes Invested and Matching Shares.
The charge in respect of share-based payment plans recognised in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 1 PSP DBSP RSP Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Share-based payment charge credit 2 1 15 17 2 1 19 17 1 Represents the charge on Matching Shares only.
The Group has recognised a total charge of US$19m 2016: US$17m in the consolidated income statement during the year relating to the above employee share-based plans see note 4d which has been transferred to the reserve for share-based payments along with US$16m of the bonus liability accrued for the year ended 31 December 2016 which has been settled in shares granted during the year 2016: 2015 bonus of US$17m.
For further details on the above employee share-based payment schemes refer to pages 95 to 98, 100 and 105 of the Directors remuneration report.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 155 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 26 Other reserves Net unrealised Net unrealised gains losses Foreign Reserve for gains losses on  share-based on derivatives sale investment translation payments Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Balance at 1 January 2016 65 16 51 95 37 Net gains on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 3 3 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 49 49 Unrealised loss on the fair value of available-for-sale investment reclassified during the year note 17 16 16 Foreign currency translation 31 31 Foreign currency losses recycled to consolidated income statement upon disposal of a subsidiary note 5 11 11 Share-based payments charge note 25 17 17 Transfer during the year note 25 17 17 Shares vested during the year 39 39 Income tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2016 19 9 89 61 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 7 9 89 73 Non-controlling interests 12 12 Balance at 31 December 2016 19 9 89 61 Balance at 1 January 2017 19 9 89 61 Net losses on maturity of cash flow hedges recycled in the year 13 13 Net changes in fair value of derivatives and financial assets designated as cash flow hedges 46 46 Foreign currency translation 9 9 Share-based payments charge note 25 19 19 Transfer during the year note 25 16 16 Shares vested during the year 38 38 Income tax on share-based payments reserve 1 1 Balance at 31 December 2017 40 18 87 109 Attributable to: Petrofac Limited shareholders 41 18 87 110 Non-controlling interests 1 1 Balance at 31December2017 40 18 87 109 Net unrealised gains losses on derivatives The portion of gains or losses on cash flow hedging instruments that are determined to be effective hedges is included within this reserve net of related deferred tax effects.
When the hedged transaction occurs or is no longer forecast to occur, the gain or loss is transferred from equity to the consolidated income statement.
Realised net loss amounting to US$13m 2016: US$3m net gain relating to foreign currency forward contracts and financial instruments designated as cash flow hedges have been recognised in cost of sales.
The forward currency points element and ineffective portion of derivative financial instruments relating to forward currency contracts and losses on undesignated derivatives amounting to US$5m 2016: US$1m have been recognised in cost of sales.
Net unrealised gains losses on available-for-sale investment This reserve recognises fair value changes, net of deferred tax effects on available-for-sale investment held by the Group.
Realised gains and losses on the sale of available-for-sale investment are recognised as other operating income or other operating expenses in the consolidated income statement.
Unrealised losses are recognised as exceptional items in the consolidated income statement.
Foreign currency translation reserve The assets and liabilities of operations which have a non-United States dollar functional currency are translated into the Groups reporting currency, United States dollar, at the exchange rate prevailing at the end of the reporting period.
The exchange rate differences arising on the translation are recognised in other reserves in equity.
156 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Reserve for share-based payments The reserve for share-based payments is used to recognise the value of equity-settled share-based payments awarded to employees and transfers out of this reserve are made upon vesting of the original share awards.
The transfer during the year reflects the transfer from accrued expenses within trade and other payables of the bonus liability in the consolidated statement of financial position relating to the year ended 2016 of US$16m 2015 bonus of US$17m which has been voluntarily elected or mandatorily obliged to be settled in shares note 25.
27 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2017 2016 US$m US$m Non-current Senior Notes 677 Revolving Credit Facility RCF 555 645 Export Credit Agency funding SACE and UKEF Facility 115 123 Term loans 200 870 1,445 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 16 22 854 1,423 Current Senior Notes 677 Export Credit Agency funding SACE and UKEF Facility 18 17 Term loans 300 Bank overdrafts 31 44 726 361 Less: Debt acquisition costs net of accumulated amortisation and effective interest rate adjustments 1 725 361 Total interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,579 1,784 Details of the Groups interest-bearing loans and borrowings are as follows: Senior Notes Petrofac has an outstanding aggregate principal amount of US$677m Senior Notes due in 2018 Notes.
The Group pays interest on the Senior Notes at an annual rate equal to 3.40% of the outstanding principal amount.
Interest on the Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears in April and October each year.
Revolving Credit Facility Petrofac has a US$1,200m committed Revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of international banks, which is available for general corporate purposes.
US$1,000m of the facility was extended in May 2017 and will mature in June 2021.
The remaining US$200 million will mature in June 2020.
As at 31 December 2017, US$555m was drawn under this facility 2016: US$645m.
Interest is payable on the drawn balance of the facility and in addition utilisation fees are payable depending on the level of utilisation.
Export Credit Agency funding In 2015, Petrofac entered into two term loan facilities guaranteed, respectively, by the Italian Export Credit Agency SACE and the UK Export Credit Agency UKEF.
Drawings were made up to February 2017 and no further drawings can be made.
Both facilities amortise over eight and a half years ending in 2025.
As at 31 December 2017, US$50m was drawn under the SACE facility 2016: US$54m and US$83m was drawn under the UKEF facility 2016: US$86m.
Term loans In August 2016, Petrofac entered into two term loans of US$200m and AED368m.
These facilities matured and were repaid in August 2017 and November 2017 respectively.
In August 2017, Petrofac entered into two new term loans of $100m each, which mature in February 2019 and August 2019 respectively.
Bank overdrafts Bank overdrafts are drawn down in United States dollar and sterling denominations to meet the Groups working capital requirements.
These are repayable on demand.
The Revolving Credit Facility, the Export Credit Agency loans facilities and the term loans together, the Senior Loans are subject to two financial covenants relating to leverage and interest cover.
The Group was in compliance with these covenants for the year ending 31 December 2017.
The Senior Loans and the Senior Notes together, the Senior Facilities are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally in right of payment with each other and with the Companys other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Petrofac International Ltd and Petrofac International UAE LLC irrevocably and unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, the due and prompt payment of all amounts at any time becoming due and payable in respect of the Senior Facilities.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 157 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 28 Provisions Non-current provisions Onerous Other long-term operating employment Provision for lease Other benefits provision decommissioning provision provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 2016 94 230 7 331 Additions during the year 24 1 25 Paid during the year 17 17 Revision of estimates 101 101 Unwinding of discount 8 8 Transfer to liabilities associated with assets held for sale note 14 21 21 Exchange difference 1 1 At 1 January 2017 101 116 7 224 Additions during the year 22 1 12 35 Recognised on acquisition note 10 24 24 Derecognised on migration of existing Santuario PEC to PSC note 10 10 10 Paid during the year 11 11 Unwinding of discount 7 7 At 31 December 2017 112 138 12 7 269 Other long-term employment benefits provision Labour laws in the United Arab Emirates require employers to provide for other long-term employment benefits.
These benefits are payable to employees on being transferred to another jurisdiction or on cessation of employment based on their final salary and number of years service.
The long-term employment benefits provision is based on an internal end of service benefits valuation model with the key underlying assumptions being as follows: Senior Other employees employees Average number of years of future service 5 3 Average annual % salary increases 2% 2% Discount factor 4% 4% Senior employees are those earning a base of salary of over US$96,000 per annum.
Discount factor used represents basis yield on US high quality corporate bonds with duration corresponding to the liability at the end of the reporting period.
Provision for decommissioning The decommissioning provision primarily relates to the Groups obligation for the removal of facilities and restoration of the sites at the Block PM304 in Malaysia, Chergui in Tunisia and Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque in Mexico.
The Group recognised US$19m note 10 of provision for decommissioning from the acquisition of a 20% ownership interest in the Greater Stella Area GSA field in the North Sea, UK and US$5m note 10 from the acquisition of a 36% ownership interest in the Santuario Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Additional provision of US$1m was recognised for Block PM304 in Malaysia relating to drilling of new wells during the year 2016: revision to decommissioning cost estimates of US$101m note 11 were made in respect of Santuario, Magallanes, Arenque and Pnuco in Mexico of US$97m and Block PM304 in Malaysia of US$4m.
The liability is discounted at the rate of 4.5% on Block PM304 2016: 4.5%, 6.0% on Chergui 2016: 6.0% and 7.5% on Santuario, Magallanes and Arenque 2016: 6.2%.
The unwinding of the discount is recognised in the finance costs note 6 line item of the consolidated income statement.
The Group estimates that the cash outflows associated with these provisions will materialise in 2026 on Block PM304, 2031 on Chergui, 2042 on Santuario, 2033 on Magallanes and 2040 on Arenque.
Onerous operating lease provision Onerous operating lease provision represents the non-current amount of the estimated future costs relating to vacant and under utilised leasehold office buildings in the UK, for which the leases expire between 2024 to 2026.
Additions to onerous operating lease provision of US$12m during the year were recognised as an exceptional item in the consolidated income statement and relate to the Engineering & Productions Services reporting segment note 5.
158 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Other provisions This represents claims amounts against the Group which will be settled through the captive insurance company Jermyn Insurance Company Limited.
Current provisions Onerous operating Onerous contract Other lease provision provisions provisions Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Reclassified from accrued contract expenses note 32 9 29 38 Amounts provided during the year 35 4 39 Utilised during the year 3 48 51 At 31 December 2017 6 16 4 26 Onerous operating lease provision Onerous operating lease provision represents current amount of the estimated future costs relating to vacant and under utilised leasehold office buildings in the UK, for which the leases expire between 2024 to 2026.
Onerous contract provisions The Group provides for future losses on contracts where it is considered probable that the contract costs are likely to exceed revenues in future years.
The amount of US$35m provided during the year relates to projects in the Engineering & Construction reporting segment 2016: US$20m.
Other provisions These include amounts provided by the Group for potential claims from vendors, disputes with customers and other claims.
The amount of US$4m provided during the year relates to projects in the Engineering & Production Services reporting segment 2016: US$nil.
29 Trade and other payables 2017 2016 US$m US$m Trade payables 419 538 Advances received from customers 536 703 Accrued expenses 499 546 Other taxes payable 67 30 Other payables 154 157 1,675 1,974 During 2017, the Santuario Production Enhancement Contract PEC in Mexico was migrated to a Production Sharing Contract PSC.
Other payables amounting to US$17m note 10 relating to the Santuario PEC in Mexico were derecognised and converted to a 36% ownership interest in the PSC 2016: trade and other payables of US$13m relating to Pnuco PEC in Mexico were reclassified to liabilities associated with assets held for sale, note 14.
Accrued expenses include capital expenditure accruals relating to property, plant and equipment of US$74m 2016: US$69m and Groups 30% share of intangible oil and gas assets relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia of US$2m 2016: US$12m.
The balance of accrued expenses primarily represents project cost accruals relating to the Engineering & Construction reporting segment and the Engineering & Production Services reporting segment.
Advances received from customers represent payments received for contracts, that will be adjusted against the future progress billings to be made to the customers.
Other payables mainly consists of retentions held against subcontractors of US$115m 2016: US$88m and amounts payable to joint operation partners of US$20m 2016: US$27m.
Certain trade and other payables will be settled in currencies other than the reporting currency of the Group, mainly in sterling, euros and Kuwaiti dinars.
30 Commitments and contingent liabilities Commitments In the normal course of business the Group will obtain surety bonds, letters of credit and guarantees, which are contractually required to secure performance, advance payment or in lieu of retentions being withheld.
Some of these facilities are secured by issue of corporate guarantees by the Company in favour of the issuing banks.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had outstanding letters of guarantee, including performance, advance payments and bid bonds of US$4,923m 2016: US$4,862m against which the Group had pledged or restricted cash balances of, in aggregate, US$49m 2016: US$47m.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had outstanding forward exchange contracts amounting to US$3,045m 2016: US$3,754m.
These commitments consist of future gross obligations either to acquire or to sell designated amounts of foreign currency at agreed rates and value dates note 33.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 159 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 30 Commitments and contingent liabilities continued Operating leases The Group has financial commitments in respect of non-cancellable operating leases for offices and equipment.
These non-cancellable leases have remaining non-cancellable lease terms of between one and 15 years and, for certain property leases, are subject to renegotiation at various intervals as specified in the lease agreements.
The future minimum rental commitments under these non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Within one year 19 14 After one year but not more than five years 46 21 More than five years 39 76 104 111 Included in the above are commitments relating to the lease of office buildings in Aberdeen, United Kingdom of US$82m 2016: US$70m.
Minimum lease payments recognised as an operating lease expense during the year amounted to US$36m 2016: US$53m, of which US$17m relates to cancellable operating leases and US$19m relates to non-cancellable operating leases.
Finance leases Long-term finance lease commitments are as follows: Future minimum lease payments Finance cost Present value US$m US$m US$m Oil and gas facilities and plant and equipment The commitments are as follows: Within one year 153 41 112 After one year but not more than five years 414 64 350 More than five years 95 10 85 662 115 547 The finance lease assets mainly comprise oil and gas facilities in Block PM304 in Malaysia and the lease terms for these leases range between one to nine years.
The above finance lease commitments include a 70% gross up of US$381m 2016: US$414m on finance leases in respect of oil and gas facilities relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia, which is necessary to reflect the legal position of the Group as the contracting entity for these finance leases.
The finance leases relating to Block PM304 in Malaysia include a renewal option of up to two years and a purchase option at the end of the lease term.
Capital commitments At 31 December 2017, the Group had capital commitments of US$48m 2016: US$264m excluding the above lease commitments.
Included in the US$48m of commitments are: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Building of the Petrofac JSD6000 installation vessel 50 Production Enhancement Contracts PEC in Mexico 18 7 Further appraisal and development of wells as part of Block PM304 in Malaysia 13 38 Costs in respect of Greater Stella Area Field development in the North Sea 12 163 Commitments in respect of the construction of a new training centre in Oman 5 6 Contingent liabilities As described in pages 6, 7, 31, 66 and 78 of the Annual Report, on 12 May 2017, the UK Serious Fraud Office SFO announced an investigation into the activities of Petrofac, its subsidiaries, and their officers, employees and agents for suspected bribery, corruption, and or money laundering.
The SFO investigation is ongoing.
The existence, timing and amount of any future financial obligations such as fines or penalties or other consequences are unable to be determined at this time and no liability has been recognised in relation to this matter in the consolidated statement of financial position at the end of the reporting period.
160 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements 31 Related party transactions The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of Petrofac Limited and the subsidiaries listed in note 34.
Petrofac Limited is the ultimate parent entity of the Group.
The following table provides the total amount of transactions which have been entered into with related parties: Amounts owed Amounts owed by related to related parties parties US$m US$m Joint ventures 2017 1 2016 3 Associates 2017 2016 1 All sales to and purchases from related parties are conducted on an arms length basis and are approved by the reporting segments management.
There were no sales to and purchases from related parties during the year 2016: US$nil.
All related party balances will be settled in cash.
Compensation of key management personnel The following details remuneration of key management personnel of the Group comprising Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company and other senior personnel.
Further information relating to individual Directors of the Company is provided in the Directors remuneration report on pages 90 to 105.
2017 2016 US$m US$m Short-term employee benefits 11 12 Share-based payments 2 1 Fees paid to Non-executive Directors 1 1 14 14 32 Accrued contract expenses 2017 2016 US$m US$m Accrued contract expenses 1,956 2,022 Reserve for contract losses 38 1,956 2,060 During 2017, reserve for contract losses of US$38m were reclassified to current provisions note 28.
33 Risk management and financial instruments Risk management objectives and policies The Groups principal financial assets and liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise trade and other receivables, related party receivables, cash and short-term deposits, work-in-progress, interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables and contingent consideration.
The Groups activities expose it to various financial risks particularly associated with interest rate risk on its variable rate cash and short-term deposits, loans and borrowings and foreign currency risk on conducting business in currencies other than reporting currency as well as translation of the assets and liabilities of foreign operations to the reporting currency.
These risks are managed from time to time by using a combination of various derivative instruments, principally forward currency contracts in line with the Groups hedging policies.
The Group has a policy not to enter into speculative trading of financial derivatives.
The Board of Directors of the Company has established an Audit Committee which performs, amongst other roles, reviews on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems to mitigate a range of risks, including financial risks, faced by the Group which is discussed in detail on pages 82 to 87.
The other main risks besides interest rate and foreign currency risk arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk, liquidity risk and commodity price risk and the policies relating to these risks are discussed in detail below: Interest rate risk Interest rate risk arises from the possibility that changes in interest rates will affect the value of the Groups interest-bearing financial liabilities and assets.
The Groups exposure to market risk arising from changes in interest rates relates primarily to the Groups long-term variable rate debt obligations and its cash and bank balances.
The Groups policy is to manage its interest cost using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
The Groups cash and bank balances are at floating rates of interest.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 161 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued Debt is primarily in US dollar, linked to US dollar LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate.
The Group uses derivatives to swap between fixed and floating rates.
No such derivatives were outstanding at 31 December 2017.
The proportion of floating rate debt at 31 December 2017 was 58% of the total financial debt outstanding 2016: 63%.
Interest rate sensitivity analysis The impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity due to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on loans and borrowings at the reporting date is demonstrated in the table below.
The analysis assumes that all other variables remain constant.
Pre-tax profit Equity 100 basis point 100 basis point 100 basis point 100 basis point increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31 December 2017 16 16 31 December 2016 18 18 The following table reflects the maturity profile of the financial liabilities and assets that are subject to interest rate risk: Year ended 31December2017 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 27 31 31 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings note 27 18 218 572 18 18 44 888 49 218 572 18 18 44 919 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 22 967 967 Restricted cash balances note 18 9 39 1 49 976 39 1 1,016 Year ended 31December2016 Within 12 23 34 45 More than 1 year years years years years 5 years Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Floating rates Bank overdrafts note 27 44 44 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings note 27 317 16 16 661 16 59 1,085 361 16 16 661 16 59 1,129 Financial assets Floating rates Cash and short-term deposits note 22 1,167 1,167 Restricted cash balances note 18 6 40 1 47 1,173 40 1 1,214 Financial liabilities in the above table are disclosed gross of debt acquisition costs and effective interest rate adjustments of US$16m 2016: US$19m.
Interest on financial instruments classified as floating rate is re-priced at intervals of less than one year.
The other financial instruments of the Group that are not included in the above tables are non-interest bearing and are therefore not subject to interest rate risk.
162 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases, and translation of assets and liabilities that are in a currency other than the functional currency of its operating units.
The Group is also exposed to the translation of the functional currencies of its units to the United States dollar reporting currency of the Group.
The following table summarises the percentage of foreign currency denominated revenues, costs, financial assets and financial liabilities, expressed in United States dollar terms, of the Group totals.
2017 2016 % of foreign % of foreign currency currency denominated denominated items items Revenues 43.7% 17.1% Costs 43.8% 28.0% Non-current financial assets 4.5% 13.1% Current financial assets 23.0% 18.8% Non-current financial liabilities 0.0% 0.0% Current financial liabilities 26.4% 30.2% The Group uses forward currency contracts to manage the currency exposure on transactions significant to its operations.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into forward contracts until a highly probable forecast transaction is in place and to negotiate the terms of the derivative instruments used for hedging to match the terms of the hedged item to maximise hedge effectiveness.
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The income statements of foreign operations are translated into the reporting currency using a weighted average exchange rate of conversion.
Foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate at the reporting date.
Revenues and costs in currencies other than the functional currency of an operating unit are recorded at the prevailing rate at the date of the transaction.
The following significant exchange rates applied during the year in relation to United States dollars: 2017 2016 Average rate Closing rate Average rate Closing rate Sterling 1.29 1.35 1.35 1.23 Kuwaiti dinar 3.30 3.32 3.30 3.27 Euro 1.13 1.20 1.10 1.05 The following table summarises the impact on the Groups profit before tax and equity due to change in the fair value of monetary assets, liabilities and derivative instruments of a reasonably possible change in United States dollar exchange rates with respect to different currencies: Profit before tax Equity 10% US 10% US 10% US 10% US dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate dollar rate increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31December2017 1 1 28 28 31December2016 6 6 29 29 Derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges At 31 December, the Group had foreign exchange forward contracts as follows: 1 Contract value Fair value undesignated Fair value designated Net unrealised gain loss 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro purchases 105 241 2 32 2 50 11 Sterling sales 485 278 8 4 1 2 16 Kuwaiti dinar sales 1,531 1,966 1 12 29 8 24 Malaysian ringgit purchases 23 85 1 15 1 18 Japanese yen sales purchases 3 59 5 4 Arab Emirates dirham purchases 102 Indian rupee purchases 7 Canadian dollar purchases 11 8 1 20 49 41 3 1 Attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders.
The above foreign exchange contracts mature and will affect income between January 2017 and February 2020 2016: between January 2017 and June 2019.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 163 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 33 Risk management and financial instruments continued At 31 December 2017, the Group had cash and short-term deposits designated as cash flow hedges with net unrealised gains of US$2m 2016: US$2m loss as follows: Fair value Net unrealised gain loss 2017 2016 2017 2016 US$m US$m US$m US$m Euro cash and short-term deposits 30 18 2 1 Sterling cash and short-term deposits 5 6 1 2 2 During 2017, net changes in fair value resulted in a gain of US$48m 2016: gain of US$54m relating to these derivative instruments and financial assets were taken to equity and losses of US$11m 2016: loss of US$7m were recycled from equity into cost of sales in the consolidated income statement.
The forward points and ineffective portions of the above foreign exchange forward contracts and loss on undesignated derivatives of US$5m 2016: US$1m were recognised in the consolidated income statement note 4b.
Commodity price risk oil prices The Group is exposed to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices on its revenues and profits generated from sales of crude oil and gas.
The Groups policy is to manage its exposure to the impact of changes in oil and gas prices using derivative instruments, primarily swaps and collars.
Hedging is only undertaken once sufficiently reliable and regular long-term forecast production data is available.
During the year the Group entered into various crude oil swaps hedging oil production of 388,816 barrels bbl 2016: 174,875 bbl with maturities ranging from January 2018 to June 2018.
The fair value of oil derivatives at 31 December 2017 was a liability of US$2m 2016: US$2m liability with net unrealised loss deferred in equity of US$2m 2016: US$2m loss.
During the year, US$2m loss 2016: US$10m gain was recycled from equity into the consolidated income statement on the occurrence of the hedged transactions and a loss in the fair value recognised in equity of US$2m 2016: US$5m loss.
The following table summarises the impact on the Groups pre-tax profit and equity due to a change in the fair value of oil derivative instruments and the underlifting asset overlifting liability of a reasonably possible change in the oil price: Profit before tax Equity 30 30 30 30 US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl US$ bbl increase decrease increase decrease US$m US$m US$m US$m 31December2017 19 19 31December2016 5 5 Credit risk The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third parties.
Business Unit Risk Review Committees BURRC evaluate the creditworthiness of each individual third party at the time of entering into new contracts.
Limits have been placed on the approval authority of the BURRC above which the approval of the Board of Directors of the Company is required.
Receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with appropriate follow-up action taken where necessary.
At 31 December 2017, the Groups five largest customers accounted for 62.3% of outstanding trade receivables, retention receivables, work in progress, receivable under Berantai RSC and receivable in respect of the development of the Greater Stella Area 2016: 56.9%.
With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Group, which comprise cash and cash equivalents, current and non-current receivables from customers including the Berantai RSC and Greater Stella Area projects and certain derivative instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from default of the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of these instruments.
Liquidity risk The Groups objective is to ensure sufficient liquidity to support operations and future growth is available.
The provision of financial capital and the potential impact on the Groups capital structure is reviewed regularly.
The Group is not exposed to any external capital constraints.
The maturity profiles of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December are as follows: 164 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Year ended 31December2017 Contractual 12 25 undiscounted Carrying 6 months 612 years years More than cash flows amount or less US$m months US$m US$m US$m 5 years US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 40 686 218 608 44 1,596 1,579 Finance lease creditors 86 67 122 292 95 662 547 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,022 50 1,072 1,072 Derivative instruments 25 2 8 35 35 Interest payments 25 20 22 30 1 98 1,198 825 370 930 140 3,463 3,233 Year ended 31December2016 Contractual 6 months 612 12 25 More than undiscounted Carrying or less months years years 5 years cash flows amount US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Financial liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 340 693 693 59 1,806 1,784 Finance lease creditors 221 84 238 141 37 721 596 Trade and other payables excluding advances from customers and other taxes payable 1,200 41 1,241 1,241 Derivative instruments 60 34 12 106 106 Interest payments 22 22 49 33 9 135 1,524 521 992 867 105 4,009 3,727 The Group uses various funded facilities provided by banks and its own financial assets to fund the above mentioned financial liabilities.
Capital management The Groups policy is to maintain a robust capital base to support future operations, growth and maximise shareholder value.
The Group seeks to optimise shareholder returns by maintaining a balance between debt and equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders and monitors the efficiency of its capital structure on a regular basis.
The gearing ratio and return on shareholders equity is as follows: 2017 2016 US$m US$m Cash and short-term deposits 967 1,167 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings A 1,579 1,784 Net debt B 612 617 Equity attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders C 912 1,097 Loss profit for the year attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders D 29 1 Gross gearing ratio A C 173.1% 162.6% Net gearing ratio B C 67.1% 56.2% Shareholders return on investment D C 3.2% 0.1% Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 165 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 34 Subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements At 31 December 2017, the Group had investments in the following active subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements: Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of entity Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Active subsidiaries Petrofac Algeria EURL Algeria 100 100 Petrofac International Bahrain S. P. C. Bahrain 100 100 Petrofac Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100 100 Eclipse Petroleum Technology Limited England 100 100 K W Limited England 100 100 Oilennium Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Malaysia-PM304 Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Contracting Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Services Limited England 100 100 PetroHealth Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Treasury UK Limited England 100 100 1 1 Petrofac UK Holdings Limited England 100 100 Caltec Limited England 100 100 1 Petrofac Energy Developments UK Limited England 100 100 Petrofac Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 100 1 1 Jermyn Insurance Company Limited Guernsey 100 100 Petrofac Engineering India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services India Private Limited India 100 100 Petrofac Information Services Private Limited India 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Integrated Energy Services Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet Jersey Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Facilities Management International Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac FPF004 Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac GSA Holdings Limited formerly Petrofac Energy Development West Africa Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac GSA Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac International Ltd Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Offshore Management Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac Platform Management Services Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Training International Limited Jersey 100 100 1 1 Petroleum Facilities E & C Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac JSD 6000 Limited Jersey 100 100 Petrofac E&C Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Petrofac Engineering Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd Malaysia 70 70 PFMAP Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 2 2 SPD Well Engineering Sdn Bhd Malaysia 49 49 H&L SPD Americas S. fide R. L. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Mexico Servicios SA fide CV Mexico 100 100 Operadora fide Campos del Noreste S. A. fide C. V. Mexico 100 100 Petrofac Kazakhstan B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Coperatief U.
A. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Netherlands Holdings B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Treasury B. V. Netherlands 100 100 PTS B. V. Netherlands 100 100 166 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial statements Proportion of nominal value of issued shares controlled by the Group Name of entity Country of incorporation 2017 2016 Petrofac Nigeria B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Norge B. V. Netherlands 100 100 Petrofac Energy Services Nigeria Limited Nigeria 100 100 2 2 Petrofac International Nigeria Limited Nigeria 40 40 Petrofac Norge AS Norway 100 100 Petrofac E&C Oman LLC Oman 100 100 2 2 PKT Technical Services Ltd Russia 50 50 PKT Training Services Ltd Russia 100 100 Sakhalin Technical Training Centre Russia 100 100 Petrofac Saudi Arabia Company Limited Saudi Arabia 100 100 Atlantic Resourcing Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Facilities Management Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Limited Scotland 100 100 Scotvalve Services Limited Scotland 100 100 SPD Limited Scotland 100 100 Stephen Gillespie Consultants Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Group Limited Scotland 100 100 Petrofac Training Holdings Limited Scotland 100 100 1 1 Petrofac South East Asia Pte Ltd Singapore 100 100 Petrofac Emirates LLC note 12 United Arab Emirates 75 75 Petrofac E&C International Limited United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac FZE United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac International UAE LLC United Arab Emirates 100 100 Petrofac Energy Developments Ohanet LLC United States 100 100 1 1 Petrofac Inc. United States 100 100 Petrofac Training Inc. United States 100 100 SPD Group Limited British Virgin Islands 100 100 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017 167 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31DECEMBER2017 CONTINUED 34 Subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements continued Proportion of nominal value of issued shares Associates controlled by the Group Name of associate Principal activities Country of incorporation 2017 2016 PetroFirst Infrastructure Limited Leasing of floating platforms to oil and gas industry Jersey 20 20 Petrofac FPF1 Limited Leasing of floating platforms to oil and gas industry Jersey 25 25 PetroFirst Infrastructure 2 Limited Leasing of floating platforms to oil and gas industry Jersey 10 10 Joint arrangements Joint ventures Spiecapag Petrofac International Engineering, procurement and construction Jersey 50 50 Limited management services TTE Petrofac Limited Operation and management of a training centre Jersey 50 50 China Petroleum Petrofac Consultancy for Petroleum and chemical engineering Netherlands 49 49 Engineering Services Cooperatief U.
A. Takatuf Petrofac Oman LLC Construction, operation and management of a training Oman 40 40 centre Joint operations 3 3 PetroAlfa Servicios Integrados Services to oil and gas industry Mexico 50 50 fide Energia SAPI fide CV 4 Petro-SPM Integrated Services Production enhancement for Pnuco Mexico 50 S. A. fide C. V. 5 5 Bechtel Petrofac JV Engineering, procurement and construction Unincorporated 35 35 management of a project in UAE 5 5 NGL 4 JV EPC for a project in UAE Unincorporated 45 45 5 5 Petrofac Black & Veatch JV Tendering and execution of a project in Kazakhstan Unincorporated 80 80 5 5 Petrofac Bonatti JV EPC for a project in Algeria Unincorporated 70 70 5 5 Petrofac Daelim JV EPC for a project in Oman Unincorporated 50 50 5 5 Petrofac ETAP JV Oil and gas exploration and production from Unincorporated 45 45 Chergui concession 5 5 PM304 JV Oil and gas exploration and production in Malaysia Unincorporated 30 30 5 5 Petrofac Samsung CB&I CFP EPC for a project in Kuwait Unincorporated 47 47 5 Greater Stella Area joint operation Oil and gas exploration and production in UK Unincorporated 20 5 Santuario Production Sharing Contract Oil and gas exploration and production in Mexico Unincorporated 36 Please note that only active entities are shown in the above tables.
All dormant entities have been omitted.
1 Directly held by Petrofac Limited.
2 Entities consolidated as subsidiaries on the basis of control.
3 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement, whereby the activities of the arrangement are primarily designed for the provision of output to the venturers: this indicates that the venturers have rights to substantially all the economic benefits of the assets of the arrangement.
4 Joint arrangement classified as joint operation on the basis of contractual arrangement between the joint venturers to be jointly and severally liable for performance under the Pnuco Integrated Service Contract ISC.
5 The unincorporated arrangement between the venturers is a joint arrangement as, contractually, all the decisions about the relevant activities require unanimous consent by the venturers.
Unincorporated joint arrangements are recognised in the Groups financial statements as joint operations.
The Groups ownership interest in associates and joint ventures is disclosed on page 147 and page 148 respectively.
168 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017
