01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 101.
Glossary APM 2017 2016 Adjusted DRU means the natural unwind of the discount rate, adjusted for the timing of 7.26% 7.04% 3 investments and cash distributed from the Portfolio in the period.
This is used as a measure of expected growth.
Adjusted a the Fair Value of the Investment Portfolio see Portfolio Value : plus 3 1,267.0m 1,108.7m Portfolio Value b any cash owned by or held to the order of the Company the Group : plus c the aggregate amount of payments made to shareholders by way of dividend in the period ending on the relevant valuation day, less i any borrowings and any other liabilities of the Company: and ii any uninvested cash.
This is used to calculate the fees paid to the Investment Adviser.
Alternative A financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial Performance position, or cash ows, other than a financial measure dened or specified Measure APM under IFRS reporting framework.
These are primarily used by the company to measure its performance.
Amended means the first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and Existing FOA on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014 amending the First Offer Agreement dated 28 October 2010.
Company means John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited.
Dividend Yield The annual dividends paid to shareholders as a percentage of share price.
5.6% 5.3% 3 For the purposes of this annual report, the dividend yield has been calculated on the closing share price as at the financial year-end.
First Offer means the first offer agreements between JLIF, the General Partner for Agreements and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 29 October 2010, and 21 January 2014.
Fund IRR The Internal Rate of Return an investor would have achieved in having 8.6% 9.8% 3 acquired a share in the Company at IPO, then having sold their share at the closing share price at the financial year-end, having received dividends on their share in the intervening period.
Dividends are not assumed to be re-invested, and assumed be paid at quarter end.
Group The group of companies comprised of the Company, its two wholly owned Luxembourg subsidiaries JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. and JLIF Luxco 2 S.. r. l., the English Limited Partnership JLIF Limited Partnership, the General Partner JLIF GP Limited and the 38 wholly owned subsidiaries of the English Limited Partnership that together held the investments in the 65 assets at 31 December 2017.
HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs.
Initial Public means JLIFs first sale of stock to the public on 29 November 2010.
Offering IPO Investment Adviser John Laing Capital Management Limited, acting in its capacity as Investment Adviser to John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited pursuant to the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Investment Advisory The investment advisory agreement between the Investment Adviser Agreement and John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited dated 27 October 2010, as amended on 10 September 2014.
Investment Partnership equity, loans, share capital, trust units, shareholder loans Investment Capital and or debt interests in or to project entities or any other entities or undertakings in which the fund invests or in which it may invest.
John Laing or John John Laing Group plc and all of its wholly owned subsidiaries, including Laing Group plc John Laing Capital Management Limited.
John Laing Capital Investment Adviser to the John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited and Management Operator of JLIF GP Limited.
Glossary continued APM 2017 2016 Net Asset Value Total Assets including Portfolio Value minus liabilities of the Group.
124.6p 120.2p 3 NAV Net Asset Value Net Asset Value NAV divided by the total number of Ordinary Shares in NAV per share issue as at 31 December 2017.
New FOA means the new first offer agreement between JLIF, the General Partner for and on behalf of the Partnership and John Laing dated 21 January 2014.
OECD countries means the member countries of The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.
A measure of the efficiency of managing a fund.
Expressed in terms of 1.17% Ongoing Charges 3 1.25% percentage impact on shareholder returns.
Partnership means JLIF Limited Partnership, a limited partnership registered in England registered number LP014109, which will hold and manage JLIFs investments.
PPP Public private partnerships PPPs are arrangements typied by joint working between the public and private sector.
In the broadest sense, PPPs can cover all types of collaboration across the interface between the public and private sectors to deliver policies, services and infrastructure.
Where delivery of public services involves private sector investment in infrastructure, the most common form of PPP in the UK is the Private Finance Initiative PFI.
Portfolio The 65 assets in which JLIF had a shareholding as at 31 December 2017.
Portfolio Value The sum of all of the individual assets net present values NPV.
Each assets NPV is calculated by discounting the future cash ows entitled to be received by JLIF, as shareholder, to the 31 December 2017.
Project Entity means a special purpose entity including any company, partnership or trust formed to undertake an infrastructure project or projects or provide infrastructure services.
Prospectus The Prospectus dated September 2013.
The Prospectus can be found at www.
Rebased Portfolio The prior year-end Portfolio Value, adjusted for investments in the period, 1,264.2m 1,125.6m 3 Value disposals cash distributed from the Portfolio, discount rate movements and exchange rate movements.
Shareholder IRR See Fund IRR above.
Special Purpose A company that is used to facilitate a PPP contract between the public Vehicle SPV and private sector.
A company is incorporated and shareholders invest equity capital and a subordinated debt into the company.
The company enters into nancing arrangements with senior lenders or bond providers to finance the development of the asset.
The company contracts with the public-sector to design, build, finance and operate an asset.
It enters into subcontracts with contractors and operating companies to carry out the required works and services.
Total Assets of the means the Fair Value of the investment in JLIF Luxco 1 S.. r. l. which Group includes the Portfolio Value and the fair value of the intermediate holding companies the Companys cash the Companys debtors other receivables of the Company.
Total Shareholder A measure of share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the 76.4% 76.5% 3 Return total return to the shareholder, expressed either in aggregate or annualised since since percentage terms.
launch launch Underlying Portfolio Growth on the Rebased Portfolio Value arising from: 1 the unwind of the 9.11% 8.18% 3 Growth or discount rate i. e. the fact that in calculating the Net Present Value of Underlying Growth forecast Portfolio cash ows, they are discounted back to a valuation date one year into the future compared to the prior year-end valuation and 2 adjustments to forecast Portfolio cash ows during the year for example, as a result of cost savings or higher revenues.
UK Investment Trust means an investment trust meeting the conditions in s1158 Corporation Tax Act 2010 and approved by HMRC.
