com Corporate Governance Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 Basic annual salary In 2015 we stated that current base salaries and therefore Directors total packages were significantly below market levels and that this would need to be addressed over time.
A failure to do so poses a material risk to the Company with regard to succession planning, particularly as the equity lock-in period applying to the current Executive Directors approaches.
Last year the Committee consulted with leading Shareholders and Shareholder bodies on how it intends to transition remuneration over a period of time so that remuneration packages become appropriate for a FTSE-listed company whilst also recognising the Companys Jersey origins.
As set out in last year's report, it is proposed that the Executive Directors' base salaries will be increased by 8% p. a. for the CEO and 5% p. a. for the CFO in 2019, reflecting strong individual and company performance.
CURRENT 2019 CEO 292,000 315,000 CFO 210,000 220,000 Pension arrangements No pension contribution will be provided in 2018 for the current Executive Directors.
This will be kept under review and a contribution may be introduced in the future taking into account the level of provision to all employees.
Benefits Executive Directors will be provided benefits as outlined in the policy.
Annual Bonus Plan The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually and reflect the key financial, strategic and operational priorities of the Group.
The annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors for 2018 shall be 100% of salary and bonuses will be based on a sliding scale of very challenging underlying profit before tax targets for 75% of the bonus and strategic targets for 25%.
The 2018 bonus profit component will be based on underlying profit before tax.
Underlying profit before tax is one of the key financial metrics at SANNE and the targets have been set by the Committee after taking account of the Companys business plan and external expectations, with full payment being made only in the case of exceptionally strong performance.
Non-financial objectives will be based on the short-term priorities of the business.
The Committee considers that the profit and non-financial targets are commercially sensitive, which means that they cannot be disclosed in advance.
However, we will disclose the underlying profit targets, the non-financial objectives and performance against these targets in next years remuneration report.
Half of any bonus will be payable in cash and the other half will be deferred in shares for a period of three years.
Performance Share Plan Awards PSP awards with a face value of 100% of salary will be granted to Executive Directors in 2018.
The Committee reviewed the choice of measures and in light of the Companys strategic outlook has set a stretching range of underlying diluted EPS growth targets required to be achieved in the year ending 31 December 2020 as set out below: Underlying Basic EPS for FY 2020 Proportion of award vesting Less than 29.85 pence Zero 29.85 pence 25% 37.85 pence or more 100% Awards vest on a straight line basis for performance between 29.85 pence and 37.85 pence.
A two year post-vest holding period will apply, creating a five year period between the grant of an award and the first opportunity to sell the net of tax vested shares.
