"APPENDIX | Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Changes to Article 23 1 Disclosures Directive 2011 61 EU on Alternative investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD"" requires certain information to be made available to investors in alternative investment funds ""AIFs"" before they invest and requires that material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual reportof each AIF."
There have been no material changes other than those reflected in the financial statements to this information requiring disclosure.
Leverage For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which an AIFs exposure is increased, whether through borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
"The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed as the ratio between an AIF's exposure and its net asset value NAV"", and prescribes two required methodologies, the gross methodology and the commitment methodology, for calculating such exposure."
Using the methodologies prescribed under the AIFMD, the leverage of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Fund as at 31 December 2017 is disclosed below: Leverage calculated pursuant to the gross methodology: 0.98 Leverage calculated pursuant to the commitment methodology: 0.99 Liquidity and risk management systems an profile Current risk profile risk management systems The portfolio managers and risk management professionals of Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC the AIFM regularly review the investment performance and the portfolio composition of the Company in the light of the Company s investment objective, policy and strategy: the principal risks and investment or economic uncertainties that have been identified as relevant to the Fund: internal risk measures and the interests and profile of investors.
The AIFM assesses the Fund's current and prospective need for liquidity on an on-going basis and ensures that liquidity is available when required.
The risk profile of the Fund as at 31 December 2017 as reported to relevant EEA authorities was as follows: Market risk profile The market risk indicators contained in the Annex IV regulatory reporting template as at 31 December 2017 are listed in the table here below: 5 YRS 5-15YRS 15 YRS RISK ME SURE DESCRIPTIO USD 11,686 0 Change of 1 bps of rate Net DV01 USD 69,886 USD 11,507 0 Change of 1 bps for spread Net CS01 USD 572,531 The expected annual investment return IRR in normal market 0 conditions in % O TE CARLO P RA ETRIC HISTORIC L SI ULATIO SIMULATIO SI ULATION N A VAR1 N A 1.02 % 1 Value at Risk 74 | NB GLOB L FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED APPENDIX | Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure continued Counterparty risk profile The top five counterparties to which the Fund had the greatest mark-to-market net counterparty credit exposure, measured as a % of the NAV of the Fund are listed in the table below: AV PERCE TAGE OF THE RANKING AME OF COU TERPARTY TOTAL EXPOSU E VALUE OF THE COU TERP RTY UBS AG 2.05% First counterparty exposure Second counterparty exposure Valeant Pharmaceuticals International Inc 1.53% Third counterparty exposure First Data Corporation 1 19% Intelsat S. A.
1.12% Fourth counterparty exposure Fifth counterparty exposure CenturyLink Inc 1.09% Westpac Banking Corporation had a mark-to-market credit exposure to the Fund equivalent to 0.1% of the Fund s NAV.
UBS AG had a mark-tomarket credit exposure to the Fund equivalent to 0.08% of the Funds NAV.
Liquidity Profile a Portfolio Liquidity Profile 22% percent of the portfolio can be liquidated within a day.
78% percent, of the portfolio can be liquidated within 2 to 7 days in normal market conditions.
The Fund had USD 16,613,022 unencumbered cash available to it.
b Investor Liquidity Profile 100% of investor equity can be redeemed within a day.
c Investor Redemption Does the Fund provide investors with withdrawal redemption rights in the ordinary course?
Report on Remuneration The Neuberger Berman Compensation Committee is responsible for the compensation practices within the Neuberger Berman group, and Neuberger Berman also operates a structure throughout the group to ensure appropriate involvement and oversight of the compensation process, so that compensation within the group rewards success whilst reflecting appropriate behaviours.
Neuberger Berman recognises the need to ensure that compensation arrangements do not give rise to conflicts of interest, and this is achieved through the compensation policies as well as through the operation of specific policies governing conflicts of interests.
Neuberger Berman's compensation philosophy is one that focuses on rewarding performance and incentivizing employees.
Employees at Neuberger Berman may receive compensation in the form of base salary, discretionary bonuses and or production compensation.
Investment professionals receive a fixed salary and are eligible for an annual bonus.
"The annual bonus for an individual investment professional is paid from a ""bonus pool"" made available to the portfolio management team with which the investment professional is associated."
Once the final size of the available bonus pool is determined, individual bonuses are determined based on a number of factors including the aggregate investment performance of all strategies managed by the individual including the three-year track record in order to emphasize long-term performance, effective risk management, leadership and team building, and overall contribution to the success of Neuberger Berman.
75 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED APPENDIX | Alternati e Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Disclosure continued Report on Remuneration Conti ued Neuberger Berman considers a variety of factors in determining fixed and variable compensation for employees, including firm performance, individual performance, overall contribution to the team, collaboration with colleagues across the firm, effective partnering with clients to achieve goals, risk management and the overall investment performance.
Neuberger Berman strives to create a compensation process that is fair, transparent, and competitive with the market.
"A portion of bonuses may be awarded in the form of contingent or deferred cash compensation, including under the ""Contingent Compensation Plan"", which serves as a means to further align the interests of employees with the interest of clients, as well as rewarding continued employment."
Under the Contingent Compensation Plan a percentage of a participant's compensation is awarded in deferred contingent form.
Contingent amounts take the form of a notional investment based on a portfolio of Neuberger Berman investment strategies and or a contingent equity award, and Neuberger Berman believes that this gives each participant further incentive to operate as a prudent risk manager and to collaborate with colleagues to maximise performance across all business areas.
The programs specify vesting and forfeiture terms, including that vesting is normally dependent on continued employment and contingent amounts can be forfeited in cases including misconduct or the participants participating in detrimental activity.
The proportion of the total remuneration of the staff of the AIFM attributable to the Fund, calculated with reference to the proportion of the value of the assets of the Fund managed by the AIFM to the value of all assets managed by the AIFM, was USD 2,460,542, representing USD 517,677 of fixed compensation and USD 1,942,866 of variable compensation.
There were 821 of staff of the AIFM who shared in the remuneration paid by the AIFM.
Compensation by the AIFM to senior management and staff whose actions had a material impact on the risk profile on the Fund in respect of 2017 was USD 286,460,870 in relation to senior management and USD 959,778 in respect of risk takers.
The compensation figure for senior management has not been apportioned, while the compensation figure for risk takers has been apportioned by reference to the number of AIFs whose risk profile was materially impacted by each individual staff member.
76 | NB GLOBAL FLO TING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
