76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CO NSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 CONTINUING OPERATIONS Notes m m NET GAMING REVENUE 925.6 743.1 EU VAT 29.5 20.1 REVENUE 2 896.1 723.0 Cost of sales 441.7 329.4 CONTRIBUTION 454.4 393.6 Administrative costs 3 214.9 235.3 CLEAN EBITDA 239.5 158.3 Share based payments 3 17.7 31.0 Exceptional items 3.2 39.9 117.8 Depreciation and amortisation 3, 8, 9 151.0 136.3 Impairment of available for sale assets 10 4.2 Impairment of assets held for sale 15 1.6 Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 12 34.5 15.0 OPERATING LOSS 5.2 116.0 Financial income 4 1.3 4.5 Financial expense 4 21.8 65.3 Dividend income 5 3.1 Share of profit of associates 0.1 0.2 LOSS BEFORE TAX 25.6 173.5 Taxation credit 6 1.9 0.3 LOSS AFTER TAX FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS 23.7 173.2 Loss profit from discontinued operations attributable to equity holders of the parent 15.1 15.7 34.6 LOSS AFTER TAX 39.4 138.6 LOSS AFTER TAX ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Equity holders of the parent 39.2 138.3 Non-controlling interests 0.2 0.3 39.4 138.6 LOSS PER SHARE ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE ORDINARY EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT: Basic 7 0.13 0.51 Diluted 7 0.13 0.51 CONTINUING LOSS PER SHARE: Basic 7 0.08 0.64 Diluted 7 0.08 0.64 Clean EBITDA is the Groups alternative non-GAAP performance measure and is considered to be a key performance measure by the Directors as it serves as an indicator of financial performance and ability to service debt.
It is dened as operating profit for continuing operations adjusted for share based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, impairments and changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments.
Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be non-recurring or material in nature that may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 77 CO NSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CO MPREHENSIVE INCOME for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m LOSS FOR THE YEAR 39.4 138.6 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE Items that will be reclassied subsequently to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations, net of tax 2.5 2.3 Change in fair value of available for sale assets 0.3 Total comprehensive expense income for the year 41.6 140.9 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE EXPENSE FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Equity holders of the parent 41.3 140.6 Non-controlling interests 29 0.3 0.3 41.6 140.9 The notes on pages 82 to 118 form part of these financial statements.
78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED CO NSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible assets 8 1,531.6 1,609.4 Property, plant and equipment 9 16.2 19.7 Investments and assets available for sale 10 4.5 3.7 Other receivables 11 1.9 4.9 Total non-current assets 1,554.2 1,637.7 CURRENT ASSETS Trade and other receivables 11 115.6 105.2 Derivative financial assets 12 26.2 Income and other taxes reclaimable 1.8 6.7 Short term investments 13 5.0 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents 14 303.8 354.8 Assets held for sale 15 59.7 Total current assets 426.2 558.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,980.4 2,195.7 CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 16 105.7 93.9 Income taxes payable 11.8 18.2 Other taxation payable 18 71.3 47.2 Client liabilities 117.4 112.0 Progressive prize pools 18.0 22.8 Loans and borrowings 17 0.2 403.5 Provisions 20 1.2 1.2 Liabilities held for sale 15 22.7 Total current liabilities 325.6 721.5 CURRENT ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 100.6 163.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 16 10.9 4.4 Derivative financial liabilities 12 12.0 Loans and borrowings 17 295.2 Provisions 20 5.7 6.9 Deferred tax 21 52.2 65.6 Total non-current liabilities 376.0 76.9 TOTAL NET ASSETS 1,278.8 1,397.3 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Issued share capital 22 3.0 2.9 Merger reserve 40.4 40.4 Share premium 1,525.3 1,478.4 Available for sale reserve 0.3 Translation reserve 4.4 2.0 Retained earnings 284.0 120.9 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE PARENT 1,280.6 1,398.8 Non-controlling interests 29 1.8 1.5 TOTAL EQUITY 1,278.8 1,397.3 The financial statements from pages 76 to 80 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2018 and signed on their behalf by: KJ Alexander P Miles Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer The notes on pages 82 to 118 form part of these financial statements.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 79 CO NSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2017 Total attributable to equity NonShare Merger Share Available Translation Retained holders of controlling capital reserve premium for sale reserve earnings parent interests Total Notes m m m m m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 0.6 40.4 85.4 0.3 Total 128.1 128.1 Share option charges 24 24.0 24.0 24.0 Share options surrendered 24 0.8 0.8 0.8 Share options exercised 24 1.1 7.2 6.1 6.1 Issue of share capital for the acquisition of bwin.
party 2.3 1,391.9 1,394.2 1,394.2 Arising from the acquisition ofbwin.
party 1.2 1.2 Transactions with owners 2.3 - 1,393.0 16.0 1,411.3 1.2 1,410.1 Loss for the year 138.3 138.3 138.3 Loss for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 29 0.3 0.3 Other comprehensive expense forthe year 2.3 2.3 2.3 Total comprehensive expense forthe year 2.3 138.3 140.6 0.3 140.9 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 2.9 40.4 1,478.4 2.0 120.9 1,398.8 1.5 1,397.3 Balance at 1 January 2017 2.9 40.4 1,478.4 - 2.0 120.9 1,398.8 1.5 1,397.3 Share option charges 24 17.1 17.1 17.1 Share options surrendered 24 Share options exercised 24 0.1 46.9 47.0 47.0 Dividend paid 23 141.0 141.0 141.0 Transactions with owners 0.1 46.9 123.9 76.9 76.9 Loss for the year 39.2 39.2 39.2 Loss for the year attributable to non-controlling interest 0.2 0.2 Other comprehensive income expense for the year 0.3 2.4 2.1 0.1 2.2 Total comprehensive income expense for the year 0.3 2.4 39.2 41.3 0.3 41.6 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.0 40.4 1,525.3 0.3 4.4 284.0 1,280.6 1.8 1,278.8 All reserves of the Company are distributable, as under the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 distributions are not governed by reserves but by the Directors undertaking an assessment of the Companys solvency at the time of distribution section 49, Companies Act Isle of Man 2006.
80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED CO NSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CAS HFLOWS for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m CASHFLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Cash receipts from customers 989.4 806.7 Cash paid to suppliers and employees 771.2 737.2 Interest paid including loan costs and loan servicing 43.3 47.6 Corporate taxes paid 14.9 7.9 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 160.0 14.0 CASHFLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Interest received 1.3 1.4 Dividends received 5 3.1 Acquisition earn-out payments 1.6 Business combinations net of cash acquired 36.7 189.4 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 9 12.4 15.8 Proceeds from disposal of assets held for sale 15 30.7 20.9 Capitalised development cost and other intangibles 8 26.0 19.0 Sale of available for sale assets 10 1.9 Decrease in short-term investments 0.4 5.7 NET CASH USED IN INVESTING ACTIVITIES 42.7 192.8 CASHFLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from interest bearing loans 17.1 550.0 380.0 Repayment of interest bearing loans 17.1 636.5 52.5 Repayment of non-interest bearing loans 3.0 Proceeds from issue of share capital, net of costs 47.0 193.8 Dividend paid 23 141.0 NET CASH USED IN GENERATED BY FINANCING ACTIVITIES 180.5 518.3 NET MOVEMENT IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 63.2 339.5 EXCHANGE DIFFERENCES 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 14 367.0 28.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF THE YEAR 14 303.8 367.0 The balance at the end of 2016 of 367.0m above consisted of 354.8m cash and cash equivalents as shown on the face of the consolidated statement of financial position and 12.2m of cash and cash equivalents recognised within assets held for sale.
The notes on pages 82 to 118 form part of these financial statements.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 81 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE 84 5. DIVIDEND INCOME 84 6.
INVESTMENTS AND AVAILABLE FOR SALE AFS FINANCIALASSETS 89 11.
ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE 92 16.
COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING AND FINANCE LEASES 94 20.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT 99 26.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 106 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements.
This note deals with both the significant accounting policies used in the preparation of these financial statements, together with a note The accounting policies have been applied consistently by identifying new accounting standards which will affect the Group.
GVC Holdings PLC is a company registered in the Isle of Man 1.2.
1 significant Judgements and Estimates and was incorporated on 5 January 2010.
It is the successor In the application of the accounting policies, which are detailed in company of Gaming VC Holdings S. A. a company which had been this note, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates incorporated in Luxembourg, and took the assets of Gaming VC and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities Holdings S. A. on 21 May 2010 after formal approval by Shareholders.
that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The estimates and The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other 31 December 2017 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ together referred to as the Group.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates 1.1 Statement of Compliance are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
as adopted by the European Union.
The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of The Directors have reviewed the accounting policies used by the Group causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and and consider them to be the most appropriate.
The accounting policies liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
are consistent with the prior year.
1.1 Intangible Assets 1.2 Basis of Preparation For all acquisitions management has recognised separately identiable The financial statements, which comprise the Consolidated Income intangible assets on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, These intangible assets have been valued based on expected future the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated cashow projections from existing customers.
The calculations of the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of value and estimated future economic life of the assets involve, by the Cashows and related notes have been prepared under International nature and variability of the assets, significant judgement and therefore Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union have a material impact, including the amortisation of intangibles.
IFRS and those parts of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 Additionally the capitalisation of internal development activity applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
includes judgements about the extent to which a project satisfies the The Directors have assessed the financial risks facing the business, capitalisation requirements as well as an assessment on the long-term and compared this risk assessment to the net current assets position recoverability of the capitalised projects.
This is assessed on a project and dividend policy.
The Directors have also reviewed relationships by project basis.
with key suppliers and software providers and are satisfied that 1.2.
1.2 Impairment of Goodwill and Trademarks the appropriate contracts and contingency plans are in place.
Determining whether goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful The Directors have prepared income statements and cashow life are impaired requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the forecasts to assess whether the Group has adequate resources for cash-generating units.
The value-in-use calculation requires the entity the foreseeable future and further details are disclosed in the viability to estimate the future cashows expected to arise from the cashstatement.
The Directors consider that the Group has adequate generating unit and select a suitable discount rate in order to calculate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable present value together with an assessment as to whether future future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis cashows are subject to any degree of uncertainty.
Note 8.2 provides in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
information on the assumptions used in these consolidated financial The financial statements are presented in euro, rounded to the nearest statements.
The work to assess the existence of impairment indicators 0.1m, and are prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception and, where applicable, to evaluate the impairment of goodwill and of those assets and liabilities carried at fair value.
The financial intangible assets was conducted internally by management.
statements are prepared on the going concern basis.
1.3 Share Based Payments Fair value is the price that would be received if selling an asset or Accounting for share based payments requires a degree of judgement paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market over such matters as dividend yield, timing of performance conditions participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price being met, expected volatility and the method in which those is directly observable or estimated using another valuation technique.
Further details on the assumptions made by In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group takes into management are disclosed in note 24. account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants 1.2.
1.4 Financial Derivatives would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset Accounting for derivatives requires a degree of judgement over such or liability at the measurement date.
Fair value for measurement and matters as timing of performance condition being met, expected or disclosure purposes in these consolidated financial statements cashows, volatility and future expected earnings over business is determined on such a basis, except for share-based payment divisions.
Further details on the assumptions made by management transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2, leasing transactions are disclosed in note 12. that are within the scope of IAS 17, and measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable 1.2.
1.5 Discontinued Activities and Assets Liabilities Held For Sale value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36.
Assets and liabilities held for sale are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less associated costs of sale.
Management apply judgement in determining when assets meet the criteria to be GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 83 carried in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED asadjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of the 1.2 Basis of Preparation continued net assets of the associate, less any impairment in the value of the 1.2.
1 significant Judgements and Estimates continued investment.
Losses of an associate in excess of the Groups interest recognised as held for sale and in evaluating the fair value less costs to in that associate are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided sell.
To the extent that the Group disposes of a material geographical for, and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has territory or business division that would be reported as a discontinued incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf operation as per IFRS 5.
3 Investments in Joint Ventures Where a legal or constructive obligation exists, managements policy A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and is to record a provision.
In considering whether the jackpot prize pools other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint form a liability management have had to exercise judgement that a control: that is, when the strategic financial and operating policy constructive obligation does indeed fall on the Group.
decisions relating to the activities require the unanimous consent of 1.2.
1.6 Provisions and Contingent Liabilities theparties sharing control.
The recognition of provisions requires management to apply judgement The Group reports its interests in jointly controlled entities using the equity in determining the likelihood of the outcome of legal or regulatory method of accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in joint proceedings as well as any other circumstances that may cause a ventures are carried in the consolidated statement of financial position liability to fall due.
In considering the historical Greek tax situation see at cost as adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Groups share of note 27.1 judgement has been exercised based on the likelihood as to the net assets of the joint venture, less any impairment in the value of the whether it is probable that an outow of resources will arise.
Losses of a joint venture in excess of the Groups interest in 1.3 Basis of Consolidation that investment are not recognised.
Additional losses are provided for, 1.3.
1 Subsidiaries and a liability is recognised, only to the extent that the Group has incurred The Group financial statements consolidate those of the Parent legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the Company and all of its subsidiaries as of 31 December 2017.
principal subsidiaries is included within the Parent Company accounts.
4 Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation profit or loss and other comprehensive income of subsidiaries acquired All transactions and balances between Group companies are or disposed of during the year are recognised from the effective date eliminated on consolidation, including unrealised gains and losses of acquisition, or up to the effective date of disposal, as applicable.
on transactions between Group companies.
Where unrealised The Group attributes total comprehensive income or loss of losses onintra-Group asset sales are reversed on consolidation, subsidiaries between the owners of the Parent and the non-controlling the underlying asset is also tested for impairment from a Group interests based on their respective ownership interests.
Amounts reported in the financial statements of subsidiaries have been adjusted where necessary to ensure Where the Company has control over an investee, it is classied as consistency with the accounting policies adopted by the Group.
The Company controls an investee if all three of the following elements are present: 1.3.
5 Business Combinations Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method.
Power over the investee: The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at Exposure or rights to variable returns from the investee: and fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values The ability of the Company to use its power to affect those of the assets transferred by the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to variable returns.
the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition related costs are Control is re-assessed whenever facts and circumstances indicate generally recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
thatthere may be a change in any of the above elements of control.
At the acquisition date, the identiable assets acquired and the Non-controlling interests in the net assets of consolidated subsidiaries liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value, except that: are identied separately from the Groups equity therein.
Noncontrolling interests consist of the amount of those interests at the Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to date of the original business combination and the non-controlling employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured shareholders share of changes in equity since the date of the in accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee combination except where any non-controlling interests have been Benets respectively: acquired by the Group.
At this point any share of gains or losses are Liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment transferred to the Groups retained earnings.
Total comprehensive arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment arrangements income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance.
arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with IFRS 2 Share Based Payments at the acquisition date: and 1.3.
2 Investments in Associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant inuence Assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale significant inuence is the power to participate in the financial and and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint that Standard.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in accounting.
Under the equity method, investments in associates are the acquiree if any over the net of the acquisition-date amounts 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.5 Property, Plant and Equipment 1.5.
1 Owned Assets 1.3 Basis of Consolidation continued Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, less accumulated 1.3.
5 Business Combinations continued depreciation see 1.5.
2 below and impairment losses see accounting of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of identiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum property, plant and equipment.
of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously 1.5.
2 Depreciation held interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised Depreciation is charged to the Income Statement on a straight-line immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain.
basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business plant and equipment.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent Leasehold property: over the length of the lease consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is Fixtures and ttings: 3-5 years measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination.
Changes in the Plant and equipment: 3-5 years fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement The residual value, if significant, is reassessed annually.
period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill.
Measurement period adjustments are 1.6 Intangible Assets adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during 1.6.
1 Goodwill the measurement period which cannot exceed one year from the Goodwill arising on an acquisition of a business is carried at cost as acquisition date about facts and circumstances that existed at the established at the date of acquisition of the business less accumulated acquisition date.
The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill has been allocated contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement to each of the Groups Cash-Generating Units CGU that is expected period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Contingent consideration that is classied as equity is limited circumstances when goodwill can be reallocated including not re-measured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent when an entity reorganises its structure in such a way that the settlement is accounted for within equity.
Contingent consideration composition of the CGUs to which goodwill has been previously that is classied as an asset or a liability is re-measured at subsequent allocated is altered.
reporting dates in accordance with IAS 39, as appropriate, with the A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment corresponding gain or loss being recognised in profit or loss.
annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the reports provisional amounts for the terms for which the accounting carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the other assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each measurement period see above, or additional assets or liabilities asset in the unit.
Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognised directly are recognised, to reect new information obtained about facts and in profit or loss.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would reversed in subsequent periods.
On disposal of the relevant CGU or have affected the amounts recognised at that date.
part thereof, the attributable amount of goodwill as determined by the allocation of expected future cashows is included in the determination 1.4 Foreign Currency of the profit or loss on disposal.
The functional currency of the Company, as well as the presentational currency of the Group, is the euro.
2 Other Intangible Assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group are stated at 1.4.
1 Foreign Currency Transactions cost less accumulated amortisation see 1.6.
4 and impairment losses Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the see accounting policy1.7.
reporting date are translated to the euro at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date.
Foreign exchange differences arising on translation The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the are recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement within operating fair value at acquisition date.
The valuation methodology used for each costs note 3 and financial expenses note 4.
Non-monetary assets type of identiable asset category is detailed below: and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign Asset category Valuation methodology currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Consulting and magazine Income cost saving Software licence Income and expense items are translated using the exchange rates Software licence Income incremental value plus at the start of the relevant month, unless exchange rates uctuate lossof profits signicantly, in which case the spot rate for significant items is used.
Trademarks Relief from royalty Exchange differences arising due to the functional currency of operations differing from the presentational currency of the Group, Trade name Relief from royalty if any, are recognised in other comprehensive income, classied Non-contractual Excess earnings as equity and transferred to the Groups translation reserve.
customer relationships Such translation differences are reclassied to profit or loss in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 85 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED 1.9 Employee Benets 1.9.
1 Pension Costs 1.6 Intangible Assets continued In some jurisdictions in which the Group has employees, there are 1.6.
2 Other Intangible Assets continued government or private schemes into which the employing company Where, in the opinion of the Directors, the Groups expenditure in or branch must make payments on a dened contribution basis, the relation to development of internet activities results in future economic contributions are shown in the profit or loss account in the year.
benets, these costs are capitalised within software licences and amortised over the useful economic life of the asset.
2 Share Based Payments The Group has share based payment schemes which allow Development costs are capitalised only when it is probable that future certain employees and contractors to acquire shares of the economic benefit will result from the project and the following criteria Company.
The Group has accounted for these under IFRS 2 Share are met: Based Payments.
The technical feasibility of the product has been ascertained: 1.9.
2.1 Share Option Schemes Adequate technical, financial and other resources are available to The fair value of options granted under the LTIP and MIP schemes are complete and sell or use the intangible asset: recognised as a share based payment expense with a corresponding The Group can demonstrate how the intangible asset will generate increase in equity for equity settled options, whilst for those options future economic benets and the ability to use or sell the intangible which will be cash-settled a liability is recognised into payables.
asset can be demonstrated: In all cases the fair value is measured at grant date and spread over the period during which the employees become unconditionally It is the intention of management to complete the intangible asset entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted are and use it or sell it: and measured using either a binomial or Monte Carlo valuation model.
The development costs can be measured reliably.
The valuation assumes a dividend credit of nil 0% where option holders are entitled to dividend equivalents under the terms of the 1.6.
Dividend equivalents are accrued in line with scheme rules Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised on vested options with a liability recognised within accruals until paid.
only when it increases the future economic benets embodied in The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reect the actual the specic asset to which it relates.
This includes legal and similar number of share options that vest and market conditions if applicable.
expenditure incurred in registering brands and trade names, which is capitalised, all other expenditure is expensed as incurred.
2.2 Annual Share Bonus Plan The Group operates an annual share bonus plan and this gives the 1.6.
4 Amortisation Company the option of rewarding employees and contractors in Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line either cash or shares or a combination of both upon them achieving basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets unless such performance targets.
The type of reward will be at the discretion of lives are indefinite.
Goodwill and trademarks with an indefinite useful the Remuneration Committee, where a share award is granted the life are systematically tested for impairment at each reporting date.
fair value of the award is recognised as a cash-settled share based Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available payment expense in the period that the employee or contractor earned for use.
The estimated useful lives are as follows: the reward, with a corresponding liability recognised in the statement of Software licence agreements 2-15 years financial position.
2.3 Cash Cancelled Options Trademarks and trade names 12-15 years, On occasion, at the Remuneration Committees discretion, vested share orindenite life options may be settled in cash, as opposed to issuing new shares.
Payments made to repurchase or cancel vested awards are accounted Non-contractual customer relationships 4-6 years for with the fair value of the options cancelled, measured at the date of 1.7 Impairment cancellation being taken to retained earnings.
Also on cancellation an At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication accelerated charge would be recognised immediately.
that an asset may be impaired.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, 1.9.
2.4 Employers Social Security Costs the Group makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
Where the Employers social security costs due on the cash cancellation of options carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset and the employee gain on exercised options will be paid by the Groups is written down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the entities and shown within share based payments expense.
higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use and is determined for See note 24 for further details of the schemes.
If the asset does not generate cash inows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, the 1.10 Provisions recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or is determined.
Discount rates reecting the asset specic risks and the constructive obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable time value of money are used for the value in use calculation.
For goodwill that an outow of economic benets will be required to settle the and trademarks that have an indefinite useful life, the recoverable amount obligation.
If the effect is material, provisions are determined by is estimated at each reporting date.
discounting the expected future cashows at a pre-tax rate that reects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where 1.8 Dividends Paid to holders of share capital appropriate, the risks specic to the liability.
Dividend distributions payable to equity shareholders are recognised through equity reserves on the date the dividend is paid.
86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 However, deferred tax is neither provided on the initial recognition 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED of goodwill, nor on the initial recognition of an asset or liability 1.11 Revenue Recognition unless the related transaction is a business combination or affects Revenue is measured at the fair value of consideration received or tax or accounting profit.
Deferred tax on temporary differences receivable and comprises the following elements: associated with investments in subsidiaries is not provided if reversal Casino: net win in respect of bets placed on casino games thathave of these temporary differences can be controlled by the Group and concluded in the year, stated net of promotional bonuses and it is probable that reversal will not occur in the foreseeable future.
amounts accrued for progressive prizepools.
In addition, tax losses available to be carried forward as well as other Sportsbook: gains and losses in respect of bets placed on sporting events income tax credits to the Group are assessed for recognition as in the year, stated net of promotional bonuses.
Open positions deferred tax assets.
are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising on Deferred tax liabilities are provided in full, with no discounting.
this valuation are recognised in revenue, as well as gains and Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable losses realised on positions that have closed.
that the underlying deductible temporary differences will be able to be Poker: net win in respect of rake for poker games that have offset against future taxable income.
Current and deferred tax assets concluded in the year, stated net of promotional bonuses.
and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply Bingo: net win in respect of bets placed on bingo games thathave to their respective period of realisation, provided they are enacted or concluded in the year, stated net of promotional bonuses.
substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Where promotional bonuses apply to customers playing a variety of Changes in deferred tax assets or liabilities are recognised as a products through the same wallet, bonuses are allocated pro-rata component of tax expense in the income statement, except where to the net win.
Revenue is also generated from foreign exchange they relate to items that are charged or credited directly to other commissions on customer deposits and withdrawals and account fees.
comprehensive income or equity in which case the related deferred tax B2B income comprises the amounts receivable for services to other is also charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income or online gaming operators.
Other revenue consists primarily of revenue equity as appropriate.
from third-party payment services and financial markets.
Revenue in 1.18 Segment Reporting respect of network service arrangements where the third-party owns Following the acquisition of bwin.
party the Board reviewed and the relationship with the customer is the net commission invoiced.
confirmed the Groups reportable segments in line with the Income is recognised when a right to consideration has been obtained requirements of IFRS 8 Operating Segments.
The segments disclosed through performance and reects contract activity during the year.
below are aligned with the reports the Groups Chief Executive 1.12 Net Gaming Revenue NGR reviewed during the year to make strategic decisions.
NGR is the Groups alternate revenue measure and is revenue before Sports bwin, Sportingbet and Gamebookers the deduction of EU VAT.
Brands: 1.13 Clean EBITDA Gaming partypoker, PartyCasino, Gioco Digitale, Cashcade, Clean EBITDA is the Groups alternative performance measure and Brands: CasinoClub, Cozy and US assets is considered to be a key performance measure by the Directors.
It is B2B: Provision of the technology platforms to external customers dened as operating profit or loss on continuing activities adjusted for Total core: The sum of Sports Brands, Games Brands and B2B together share based payments, exceptional items, depreciation, amortisation, with non-allocated costs for technology, operations, customer impairment charges and changes in the fair value of derivative service, professional fees and travel and ofce costs financial instruments.
Non-core: InterTrader 1.14 Financial Expenses Corporate: Includes shared and corporate functions such as finance, Financial expenses comprise interest payable on borrowings, legal and HR calculated using the effective interest rate method which discounts the expected cashows over the life of the financial instrument, and foreign Variable costs and costs above Clean EBITDA are either directly attributed exchange differences arising on loans and finance leases.
Costs below Clean EBITDA are not reviewed on a segment basis and accordingly the analysis by segment is from revenue 1.15 Exceptional Items to Clean EBITDA only.
In addition, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Exceptional items are those items the Group considers to be nonPosition is not reviewed on a segment basis.
recurring or material in nature that may distort an understanding of financial performance or impair comparability.
1.19 Financial Instruments A discontinued operation is a component of the Groups business, the 1.16 Financial Income operations and cashows of which can be clearly distinguished from Financial income is interest income recognised in the income statement the rest of the Group and which: as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
represents a separate major line of business or geographic area 1.17 Tax of operations: The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income line of business or geographic area of operations: or statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.
are never taxable or deductible.
Classication as a discontinued operation occurs at the earlier of Deferred tax is generally provided on the difference between the disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be classied carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as held-for-sale.
When an operation is classied as a discontinued calculated using the liability method on temporary differences.
operation, the comparative statement of profit or loss and OCI is GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 87 attributable to their acquisition or issue.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any 1.19 Financial Instruments continued provisions for impairment.
re-presented as if the operation had been discontinued from the start ofthe comparative year.
1.20.4 Available For Sale Financial Assets AFS Cash and CashEquivalents profit or loss from discontinued operations comprises the post-tax AFS financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either profit or loss of discontinued operations and the post-tax gain or loss designated to this category or do not qualify for inclusion in any of the recognised in the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on other categories of financial assets.
thedisposal group s constituting the discontinued operation.
AFS financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses are 1.20 Financial Instruments recognised in other comprehensive income and reported within the Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group AFS reserve within equity, except for interest and dividend income, entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
impairment losses and foreign exchange differences on monetary Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at assets, which are recognised in profit or loss.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other When the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit cumulative gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income is or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial reclassied from the equity reserve to profit or loss.
Interest calculated assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
using the effective interest method and dividends are recognised in Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial profit or loss within finance income.
assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are For AFS equity investments impairment reversals are not recognised in recognised immediately in profit or loss.
profit and loss and any subsequent increase in fair value is recognised 1.20.1 Non-Derivative Financial Instruments in other comprehensive income.
Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and other 1.20.5 Assets Classied as Held For Sale receivables including balances with payment processors, cash Non-current assets and disposal groups are classied as held for sale and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, customer liabilities, if the carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction progressive prize pools, trade and other payables and deferred rather than through continuing use.
This condition is regarded as being consideration.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative met only when the sale is highly probable, management is committed financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the to a sale plan, the asset is available for immediate sale inits present effective interest method.
Contingent consideration is measured at condition and the sale is expected to be completed within one year fair value.
Provisions for impairment are made against financial assets from the date of classication.
These assets are measured at the lower if considered appropriate and any impairment is recognised in profit of carrying value and fair value less associated costs of sale except or loss.
The liability for inactive customer balances is derecognised where the assets were previously classied as available for sale, in when the obligation is extinguished with reference to player terms which case they are carried at fair value.
Open positions on sports bets are carried within other payables.
1.20.6 Derivative Financial Instruments Derivative financial instruments are accounted for at Fair Value Through Non-derivative financial instruments are removed from the balance profit and Loss FVTPL.
Any movements in fair value are taken to the sheet when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, consolidated income statement.
The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability that has been extinguished or transferred to another 1.20.7 Impairment of Financial Assets party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss as each reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to be impaired otherincome or finance costs.
when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the Modications to the terms of a financial liability are determined to be estimated future cashows of the investment have been affected.
A substantial modication is accounted for as an extinguishment of the existing liability and the Objective evidence of impairment could include: recognition of a new liability.
Any difference between the carrying value significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or of the liability which has been cancelled and the fair value of the new breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or liability which it has been replaced with, will be recognised as a gain principal payments: or orloss through the income statement.
A non-substantial modication isaccounted for as an adjustment to the existing liability with no it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or charges being recognised through the income statement.
financial re-organisation: or 1.20.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and bank because of financial difficulties.
Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form 1.21 Equity an integral part of the Groups cash management are included as Equity comprises the following: a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the statement of cashows.
share capital represents the nominal value of equity shares.
1.20.3 Short Term Investments share premium represents the excess over nominal value of the fair Short term investments are non-derivative financial assets with xed value of consideration received for equity shares, net of expenses or determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market.
They are initially recognised at fair value, plus transaction costs directly 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 1.23.2 IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 1.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED IFRS 15 presents new requirements for the recognition of revenue, 1.21 Equity continued replacing IAS 18 Revenue, IAS 11 Construction Contracts, and available for sale represents the gain or loss arising on the revaluation several revenue-related Interpretations.
The new standard establishes of available for sale assets.
a control-based revenue recognition model and provides additional retained earnings represents retained profits.
guidance in many areas not covered in detail under existing IFRSs, merger reserve arose on the re-domiciliation of the Group from including how to account for arrangements with multiple performance Luxembourg to the Isle of Man in 2010.
It consists of the preobligations, variable pricing, customer refund rights, supplier redomiciliation reserves of the Luxembourg company plus the repurchase options, and other common complexities.
IFRS 15 is difference in the issued share capital 31,135,762 share at 0.01 effective for reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. versus 31,135,762 shares at 1.24.
The Groups core revenues earned from sportsbook or casino translation reserve represents exchange differences on translation operations do not fall within the scope of IFRS 15.
For other core of foreign subsidiaries recognised in other comprehensive income.
revenues and revenues within the Non-core segment which may be governed by the standard, management do not consider that 1.22 Operating Leases there would be any impact upon adopting IFRS 15.
For NGR within All leases other than finance leases are treated as operating leases.
the B2Bsegment, some project based revenues undertaken for Where the Group is a lessee, payments on operating lease agreements customersmay be subject to deferment but the impact is not are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease expectedto be significant to the Group or division.
Associated costs, such as maintenance and insurance, are 1.23.3 IFRS 16 Leases expensed as incurred.
IFRS 16 presents new requirements for the recognition, measurement, 1.23 Standards In Issue, Not Yet Effective presentation and disclosure of leases, replacing IAS 17 Leases.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, certain The standard provides a single lessee accounting model, new standards, and amendments to existing standards have been requiring lessees to recognise assets and liabilities for all leases published by the IASB that are not yet effective, and have not been of over 12 months unless the underlying asset has a low value.
adopted early by the Group.
Information on those expected to be Lessors continue to classify leases as operating or finance leases, with relevant to the Groups financial statements is provided below.
The new standard applies to 1.23.1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019.
The IASB has released IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2014, The Groups management consider that the adoption of this statement representing the completion of its project to replace IAS 39 Financial will result in the majority of the Groups leases which are currently Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The new standard classied as operating being recognised as assets into the Statement introduces extensive changes to IAS 39s guidance on the classication of Financial Position.
This will likely result in an increase in the nonand measurement of financial assets and introduces a new expected current assets representing right-of-use assets and a corresponding credit loss model for the impairment of financial assets together increase in liabilities, both current and non-current on the balance with new guidance on the application of hedge accounting.
The new sheet of the Group to the approximate value of the assets contained standard is required to be applied for annual reporting periods within its operating lease disclosure in note 19.
Further review on the beginning on or after 1 January 2018. impact will take place in the 2018 financial year.
The Groups management are currently reviewing the various Other standards which are not expected to have a material impact classications of financial instruments used by the Group but do not are shown below: believe that there will be any material changes to the classications used in the Groups financial instruments.
Where there are any changes IFRS 17 Insurance contracts effective for annual periods to classication, it is not expected to result in any material adjustments starting on or after 1 January 2021 to the Groups results in future periods.
The Group does not currently IFRIC Interpretation 22 Foreign currency transactions and advance use hedging instruments but will consider the implications of this new considerations effective for annual periods starting standard when considering and implementing the hedging instruments onorafter 1 January 2018 it will utilise going forward.
It is not considered that the credit loss IFRIC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments model will result in any significant material impairment to the Groups effectivefor annual periods starting on or after financial instruments although there may be a larger individual impact 1January 2019 on the amounts due to the Company, particularly with respect to the Amendments to IAS 40 Transfers of investment property effective for amounts owed to the Company by other Group undertakings which annual periods starting on or after 1 January 2018 are individually material to the Company.
Amendments to IFRS 2 Classication and Measurement of Share-based Core NGR arising from sportsbetting and casino are currently governed Payment Transactions effective for annual periods under IAS 39 and it is not expected that the adoption ofIFRS 9 will starting on or after 1 January 2018 have a material impact on the Groups accounting fororpresentation Amendments to IAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint ofNGR as a result in the change in standards.
Ventures effective for annual periods starting on or after 1January2019 Management anticipates that all relevant pronouncements will be adopted in the Groups accounting policies for the first period beginning after the effective date of the pronouncement.
New standards, interpretations and amendments not either adopted orlisted above are not expected to have a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 89 2.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING Management review the business across five operating segments, being Sports Brands, Games Brands, B2B, Non-core and Corporate.
These operating segments are monitored and strategic decisions are made on the basis of overall operating results.
Management also monitors revenue by geographic location of its customers.
The reporting by segment includes the results from continuing operations, including discontinued operations NGR was 1,008.0m 2016: 894.6m and Clean EBITDA was 274.2m 2016: 205.7m.
2.1 Geographical Analysis The Groups continuing revenues from external customers are divided into the following geographic areas: 2017 2016 m m Germany 242.1 187.9 United Kingdom 91.7 69.3 Other Europe 435.4 349.2 Rest of World 126.9 116.6 TOTAL 896.1 723.0 Revenues from external customers have been identied on the basis of the customers geographical location.
The results for either year do not include the results of discontinued activities which were previously reported within the Sports Brands.
90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 3.
OPERATING COSTS 2017 2016 Notes m m Wages and salaries, including Directors 105.6 100.8 Staff costs capitalised in respect of intangible asset additions 18.0 10.7 Outsourced consultants 19.8 21.8 Compulsory social security contributions 10.5 12.1 Pension contributions 1.0 0.9 Health and other benets 5.2 4.4 Recruitment and training 1.6 2.3 PERSONNEL EXPENDITURE EXCLUDING SHARE BASED PAYMENTS 125.7 131.6 Professional fees 18.4 18.2 Technology costs 47.1 67.5 Ofce, travel and other costs 21.5 21.6 Foreign exchange differences on operating activity 2.2 3.6 ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS 214.9 235.3 Equity settled share based payments charges 24 16.7 23.9 Cash settled share based payments charges 24 1.0 7.1 Exceptional items 3.2 39.9 117.8 Impairment of assets held for sale 15.1 1.6 Impairment of available for sale asset 10 4.2 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 12 34.5 15.0 Depreciation 9 15.6 19.8 Amortisation 8 135.4 116.5 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS 459.6 509.6 3.1 Employees The average monthly number of persons including Directors employed by the Group during the year was: 2017 2016 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES With employment contracts or service contracts 2,559 2,211 Contractors 388 471 2,947 2,682 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 91 3.
OPERATING COSTS CONTINUED 3.2 Exceptional Items 2017 2016 m m Professional fees 7.7 18.8 Currency option, including fair value adjustment see note 3.2.
1 10.8 Bonuses and share options see note 3.2.
2 21.9 MERGER & ACQUISITION COSTS 7.7 51.5 Premium listing application costs 4.4 Reorganisation costs 23.9 14.4 Contract termination costs 11.7 Accelerated depreciation 12.5 Progressive jackpots 7.6 Release of contingent consideration 8.1 Foreign exchange on deposit 0.3 16.4 profit on disposal of joint venture and available for sale investment 11.7 Legal settlements 2.1 Other 5.9 2.9 TOTAL EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 39.9 117.8 Reorganisation costs relate to expenses incurred on restructuring the business including redundancy costs and certain contracts which will expire once migration activities are completed.
1 Currency Option A currency option was held by the Group into 2016 but was extinguished on the settlement of the bwin.
No further material options have been utilised since.
At 31 December 2017 there were no forward exchange contracts taken out in the ordinary course of business.
The cost of forward exchange options during the year is included within administrative costs and not treated as an exceptional cost.
2 Transaction Bonuses and Share Options Transaction bonus and share options arose as a result of the acquisition of bwin.
3.3 Auditors Remuneration 2017 2016 m m GROUP AUDITORS REMUNERATION Audit services 0.9 0.7 Non-audit services: Reporting accountant services 1.5 1.0 Half-year review 0.1 0.1 Other services 0.1 2.5 1.9 Non-audit services include services relating to corporate finance transactions in respect of the Ladbrokes Coral acquisition of 1,523,662, audit related assurance services of 77,610 and other non-audit services of 7,142.
In the prior year audit fees were incurred by the Group for other auditors with fees for audit services of 1.5m and fees payable fornon-audit services of 0.5m.
In 2017 audit fees paid to other audit rms amounted to 0.1m.
92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 4.
FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSE 2017 2016 m m FINANCIAL INCOME Interest income 0.5 2.9 Unwinding of discount on contingent consideration 0.5 Other income 0.8 1.1 TOTAL FINANCIAL INCOME 1.3 4.5 2017 2016 m m FINANCIAL EXPENSE Interest on Cerberus loan 4.2 46.0 Interest on Nomura loan 0.4 Interest on Term Loan 9.6 Amortisation of loan fees 7.3 23.4 Unwinding of early repayment option 4.3 Other interest 0.3 0.2 TOTAL FINANCIAL EXPENSE 21.8 65.3 5. DIVIDEND INCOME Dividends were received in 2016 from the Aldorino Trust in respect of the investment in Betbull.
No dividends were received in 2017.
2017 2016 m m Dividend income 3.1 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 93 6.
TAXATION 6.1 Analysis of Tax Charge 2017 2016 m m CURRENT TAX EXPENSE Current year 11.7 12.2 Prior year 1.4 0.7 Current tax expense 13.1 11.5 Deferred tax credit 15.0 11.8 TAX CREDIT 1.9 0.3 The effective tax rate for the year based on the associated tax expense is 7.4% 2016: tax rate of 0.0%.
The higher effective rate arose due to a lower loss in the year, principally due to higher underlying earnings.
The total credit for the year for continuing operations can be reconciled to accounting loss as follows: 2017 2016 m m LOSS PROFIT BEFORE TAX 25.6 173.5 Income tax using the UK corporation tax rate 4.9 34.7 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions rates decreased 28.7 1.6 Expenses income not deductible for tax purposes 9.9 16.6 Utilisation of tax losses not previously provided 3.0 1.0 Group relief 0.9 2.5 Tax losses for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised 24.8 24.2 Capital allowances for the period in excess of depreciation 0.5 0.6 Adjustments in respect of prior years 1.4 0.7 TAX CREDIT 1.9 0.3 The expenses not allowed for tax purposes are primarily share-based payments, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of assets.
The effect of non-taxable income primarily represents the release of the acquisition fair value liabilities and dividend income in 2016.
6.2 Factors Affecting the Tax Charge for the Year The Groups policy is to manage, control and operate Group companies only in the countries in which they are registered.
At the year-end there were Group companies or branches registered in 30 countries.
The rules and practice governing the taxation of e-Commerce activity are evolving in many countries.
It is possible that the amount of tax that will eventually become payable may differ from the amount provided in the financial statements.
6.3 Factors That May Affect Future Tax Charges As the Group is involved in worldwide operations, future tax charges will be affected by the levels and mix of profitability in different jurisdictions.
Future tax charges will be reduced by a deferred tax credit in respect of amortisation of certain acquired intangibles.
94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE 7.1 Basic Loss Per Share and Adjusted Earnings Per Share Basic loss per share has been calculated by taking the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and dividing by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
2017 2016 Loss profit for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders m 39.2 138.3 Weighted average number of shares millions 299.2 271.8 BASIC LOSS PER SHARE 0.13 0.51 The continuing loss per share has been calculated by taking the loss attributable to ordinary shareholders for continuing operations and dividing by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
2017 2016 Loss for the year for continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders m 23.7 173.2 Weighted average number of shares millions 299.2 271.8 BASIC CONTINUING LOSS PER SHARE 0.08 0.64 The performance measure of earnings per share used internally by management to manage the operations of the business and remove the impact of one-off and certain non-cash items is adjusted earnings per share.
Management believes that this better reects the underlying performance.
Adjusted earnings per share has been calculated by taking the loss after tax and adding back the following items in the year and dividing by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
2017 2016 Loss before tax excluding disposal of discontinued activities 25.6 173.5 Exceptional items 39.9 117.8 Impairment of assets held for sale 1.6 Impairment of available for sale asset 4.2 Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments 34.5 15.0 Dividend income 3.1 Amortisation on acquired intangible assets 121.0 109.5 Amortisation of early repayment option on loan 3.1 4.3 Amortisation of loan fees 10.4 23.3 ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX 178.7 58.9 Taxation 10.2 7.9 Adjusted profit after tax 168.5 51.0 profit after tax from discontinued operations excluding loss on disposal 30.4 34.6 ADJUSTED PROFIT AFTER TAX INCLUDING DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS EXCLUDING LOSS ON DISPOSAL 198.9 85.6 Adjusted earnings per share based on adjusted profit after tax 0.56 0.19 Adjusted earnings per share based on adjusted profit after tax including discontinued operations excluding loss ondisposal 0.66 0.32 Share options that could potentially dilute basic earnings per share but were not included because they are antidilutive for the year ending 31 December 2017 amounted to nil effective shares 2016: nil.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 95 7.
EARNINGS PER SHARE CONTINUED 7.2 Diluted Earnings Per Share and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Diluted earnings per share has been calculated by taking the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and dividing by the weighted average number of shares in issue as diluted by share options.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share has been calculated by taking the adjusted earnings as above and dividing by the weighted average number of shares in issue, as diluted by share options.
2017 2016 Loss for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders m 39.2 138.3 Weighted average number of shares millions 299.2 271.8 Effect of dilutive share options millions 10.7 7.5 Weighted average number of dilutive shares millions 309.9 279.3 DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE 0.13 0.51 Loss for the year for continuing operations attributable to ordinary shareholders m 23.7 173.2 DILUTED CONTINUING EARNINGS PER SHARE 0.08 0.64 Adjusted earnings m 198.9 85.6 Adjusted diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit after tax 0.54 0.18 Adjusted diluted earnings per share based on adjusted profit after tax including discontinued operations excluding loss ondisposal 0.64 0.31 A diluted EPS calculation may not increase a basic EPS calculation when the basic EPS is a loss.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED Following the disposal of the Turkish operations as disclosed in note 15.1 30.9m of goodwill was disposed of from the carrying value of the Betboo and Sportingbet goodwill balances with the amount of goodwill disposed of determined based on the split of expected cashows from those CGUs.
Certain intangible assets are deemed to have an indefinite useful life as there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the asset is expected to generate net cash inows for the entity.
The carrying amounts of such assets at 31 December 2017 was as follows: 2017 2016 m m Trademarks and trade names related to Games Brands 15.1 15.1 significant items within intangible assets include assets acquired as a results of the bwin.
party acquisition carried out in 2016 with 106.5m of software licences, 147.9m of trademarks and trade names and 111.4m of non-contractual customer relationships.
These assets are being amortised between three and twelve years.
Other significant items also include assets acquired as a result of the Cozy acquisition see note 28.1 with 2.1 of software licences, 2.2m of trademarks and trade names and 18.9m within non-contractual customer relationships and 4.6m acquired as a result of the Zatrix acquisition see note 28.2 of non-contractual customer relationships.
These assets are being amortised over three to six years.
Research is insignicant to the Group given the nature of its activities.
8.1 Amortisation The amortisation for the year is recognised in the following line items in the income statement.
2017 2016 m m Net operating expenses 135.4 116.5 8.2 Reorganisation of Goodwill Following the disposal of the goodwill associated with the Turkish-facing businesses, management undertook a review of the goodwill allocated to its cash generating units.
The business is now managed on the label-focused basis as presented in Note 2 and management review the business based on those segments identied.
However with these labels split across multiple jurisdictions and utilising a distribution of central resources across the business, Management do not examine profitability down to EBITDA for individual labels.
Prior to the reorganisation the Group had the following goodwill balances.
As at 31 As at 31 December Disposal of Arising on December 2016 goodwill acquisition 2017 m m m m bwin Sports Brands 849.1 849.1 bwin Games Brands 108.3 108.3 Betboo 8.3 5.7 2.6 CasinoClub 40.4 40.4 Sportingbet 84.2 25.2 59.0 Cozy 7.9 7.9 Zatrix 27.0 27.0 1,090.3 30.9 34.9 1,094.3 The subsequent re-allocation of goodwill has not been carried out on the basis of relative values as each of the previous CGUs formed a smaller part of the larger CGUs, amongst which management and resources were shared.
It has therefore been considered more appropriate to consolidate the individual smaller CGUs wholly into the new CGUs of Sports Brands and Games Brands based upon their primary offerings to players.
Following the reorganisation, the goodwill allocated to the bwin Sports Brands, Betboo, Sportingbet and Zatrix segments has been allocated to the Sports Brands segment resulting in carried goodwill of 937.7m.
The goodwill allocated to the bwin Games Brands, CasinoClub and Cozy segments have been allocated to the Games Brands segment resulting in carried goodwill of 156.6m.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 97 8.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS CONTINUED 8.3 Impairment Tests for Cash-generating Units Containing Goodwill and Trademarks Prior to the reallocation of the goodwill, impairment reviews were carried out for each individual goodwill CGU with no impairment identied.
The carrying values of the assets were compared with the recoverable amounts, the recoverable amount was estimated based upon a value in use calculation, based upon management forecasts for the years ending 31 December 2018 and up to 31 December 2022.
An impairment review was also carried on the reallocated goodwill using the assumptions shown below.
Discount Terminal Goodwill rate growth rates m % % Sports Brands 937.7 7.4 2 Games Brands 156.6 9.4 2 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1,094.3 Management has considered the sensitivities around its key assumptions used in the review of the carrying values of goodwill and other intangibles with an indefinite useful life.
The discount rates used have been considered based on the risks involved in each of the underlying business units and terminal growth rates reect the expected growth in underlying EBITDA expected from these units.
These CGUs have been considered for impairment and sensitivities have been calculated around the terminal growth rates and discount factors used together with specic scenarios including the loss of revenue where those revenues might be considered to be at risk.
No impairment would have arisen as a result of reasonably possible changes in the discount rate, growth rate or other scenarios modelled within the sensitivity analysis.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Land and Plant and Fixtures and buildings equipment ttings Total m m m m COST At 1 January 2016 3.4 1.54.9 Additions 0.1 0.4 15.3 15.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 4.9 39.6 44.5 Disposals 0.1 1.3 1.4 Exchange movements 0.2 0.2 0.9 0.9 Reclassied as assets held for sale 2.5 2.5 At 31 December 2016 4.7 4.0 51.7 60.4 Additions 0.4 1.3 10.7 12.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 Disposals 0.7 0.7 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 5.1 5.3 61.9 72.3 DEPRECIATION At 1 January 2016 2.2 1.23.4 Depreciation charge for the year 1.0 0.7 18.3 20.0 Disposals 0.5 0.5 Accelerated depreciation 18.1 18.1 Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 Reclassied as assets held for sale 0.2 0.2 At 31 December 2016 1.0 2.9 36.8 40.7 Depreciation charge for the year 0.4 1.8 13.5 15.7 Disposals 0.4 0.4 Exchange movements 0.1 0.1 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.4 4.7 50.0 56.1 NET BOOK VALUE At 31 December 2016 3.7 1.1 14.9 19.7 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.7 0.6 11.9 16.2 98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 9.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT CONTINUED In 2016 accelerated depreciation of 18.1m was charged in respect of certain xture and ttings which were renegotiated following the bwin.
An associated payable of 5.6m was also released to the income statement following this renegotiation.
The depreciation charge includes 0.1m 2016: 0.2m of depreciation included within discontinued activities.
9.1 Capital Commitments The Group has capital commitments contracted but not provided for at 31 December 2017 of 2.2m 31 December 2016: 1.4m.
INVESTMENTS AND AVAILABLE FOR SALE AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Available for sale financial assets Associates Total m m m At 1 January 2016 2.6 2.6 Acquisition through business combination 3.5 1.0 4.5 Additions 2.2 2.2 Share of profit 0.1 0.1 Impairments 4.2 4.2 Disposals 1.5 1.5 At 31 December 2016 2.6 1.1 3.7 Share of profit 0.1 0.1 Revaluation gain 0.7 0.7 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.3 1.2 4.5 10.1 Available For Sale Assets AFS On 14 May 2014, the Group acquired a 15% stake in Betit Holdings Limited BHL from Betit Securities Limited BSL.
The consideration was for 3.5m, which was attributed to both the available for sale asset 5.2m and the option liability 1.7m taken on at acquisition.
The asset held for sale consideration, together with professional fees incurred at the time, amounted to a total upfront cost of 5.4m which was impaired at 31 December 2015 to 2.6m.
This asset was impaired by 0.7m in 2016 prior to being sold in that year.
partys available for sale assets on acquisition was 3.5m.
The value of these decreased by 3.1m during 2016, principally as a result of the dividend declared by the Aldorino Trust of 3.1m which resulted in the full impairment of this investment.
party acquisition, a convertible instruments investment in Visa Inc that was previously held for sale of 2.2m was recategorised as AFS after the acquisition date.
The movement in the year on available for sale assets was 0.7m, principally comprising a gain in the value of the convertible investment in Visa Inc. 10.2 Associates The value of bwin.
partys associates on acquisition was 1.0m.
The value of this investment had increased by 0.1m by 31 December 2016 based on the share of underlying profit in the associate and by a further 0.1m by 31 December 2017.
The Group holds 50% of the voting rights in relation to this entity and amounts related to this entity are presented in the table below: 2017 2016 m m Non-current assets 0.1 0.1 Current assets 2.3 2.2 Current liabilities 0.5 0.5 Revenues 2.3 2.6 profit 0.4 0.4 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 99 11.
RECEIVABLES AND PREPAYMENTS 2017 2016 m m Balances with payment processors 54.1 60.0 Other receivables 42.7 27.6 Loans and receivables 96.8 87.6 Prepayments 16.3 16.7 Contingent consideration 1.6 Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 CURRENT ASSETS 115.6 105.2 Contingent consideration 1.9 4.0 Deferred consideration 0.9 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1.9 4.9 Payment processor balances are funds held by third-party collection agencies subject to collection after one month, or balances used to make refunds to players.
Prepayments include payments as at 31 December 2017 for goods or services which will be consumed after 31 December 2017.
Contingent consideration relates to amounts receivable for the sale of domain names following the acquisition of bwin.
party and is measured at fair value.
The non-discounted book values for these amounts are 1.8m due within one year 2016: nil and 2.2m 2016: 6m due later than one year but not later than five years.
Deferred consideration relates to amounts receivable for the sale of Conspo which was previously classied as held for sale.
The non-discounted book values for these amounts are 0.9m 2016: 0.9m due within one year and nil 2016: 1.0m due later than one year but not later than five years.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Early Winunited repayment Betit Poker option option option options Total m m m m m BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 3.8 0.7 3.1 Recognised on loan drawdown 7.4 7.4 Disposal in the year 0.7 0.7 Change in fair value of early repayment option 0.1 15.1 15.0 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 3.7 22.5 26.2 Recognised on agreement of the options contracts 12.0 12.0 Disposed of in the year 3.7 3.7 Released in the year 22.5 22.5 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 12.0 12.0 12.1 Winunited Option On 24 March 2015, GVC contracted with Winunited Limited for the day-to-day back ofce operations of the Winunited business, licensed in Malta.
Under the terms of the agreement, GVC obtained a call option to purchase the Winunited assets comprising goodwill, customers, licences, brands and websites.
The exercise period for the option is in the three months prior to the five-year anniversary of 24 March 2015.
No consideration was paid for the call option.
At 31 December 2016 the option was valued using a Monte Carlo valuation model and two methodologies: a discounted cashow and a multiples based calculation.
A long-term growth rate of 2% was assumed, and a discount rate of 13% based on industry peers and observable inputs.
Based on this model, the value of the call option at 31 December 2017 was 3.7m 2016: 3.7m.
During the year there were no discernible changes to the inputs into the valuation and accordingly no revaluation was performed prior to the inclusion of the asset as part of the sale of the Turkish-facing business which was disposed of during the year see note 15.1.
100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 12.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 12.2 Cerberus Loan Early Repayment Option The Cerberus facility had a repayment date of 4 September 2017 but was repaid earlier see note 17.
Early repayment changed the prole and size of the cash payments and this feature was identied as an embedded derivative therefore separated from the host contract.
The option was previously valued by a third party valuation specialist based on the contracted cashows under the terms of the facility and measuring the cost saving opportunities resulting from an early repayment and obtaining of new nancing at a lower rate.
Given the renance agreement disclosed in note 17, there was considered to be minimal sensitivity of the inputs to the valuation.
The early repayment option was fully released following the renancing of the Groups loans in February 2017.
12.3 Betit Option On 14 May 2014, the Group acquired a 15% stake in Betit Holdings Limited BHL.
The Group had a call option to acquire the balance of the outstanding shares which could be exercised no earlier than 1 July 2017 and no later than 30 September 2017, and would be subject to further Maltese Gaming Authority clearance and the Stock Exchange Rules.
The minimum call option price was 70m, and the actual price would be determined by the mix of revenues between regulated and non-regulated markets and certain multiples attaching thereto.
In 2016 the Group disposed of its investment in BHL and its call option was also disposed of as part of this arrangement.
The net loss on disposal of the investment and the option was included within changes in value of available for sale assets.
12.4 Poker Options During 2017 the Group entered into a marketing services agreement with its principal ofine tournament partner with the purpose of organising and promoting a series of live poker events under the partypoker LIVE brand to look to increase trafc to partypoker.
As part of entering into this agreement the Group has entered into a call and put arrangement in respect of the entire issued share capital of the Company set up by its ofine partner dedicated to this agreement, which are exercisable by the Group or its partner respectively on completion of the five-year agreement.
There is no minimum call price with a maximum ceiling of 136m dependent on the enhancement of EBITDA of the affected poker business and the enhancement delivered to shareholder earnings through the enterprise value of the Group.
The put option has been valued as a liability of 12.0m as at 31 December 2017 and a charge of the same amount has been recognised in the year.
SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS 2017 2016 m m Restricted cash 5.0 5.4 5.0 5.4 Short-term investments represent cash held as guarantees for regulated markets licences.
These funds cannot be freely accessed by the Group and so are not treated as cash or cash equivalents.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 2017 2016 m m Total cash in hand and current accounts 303.8 367.0 Cash held within assets held for sale 12.2 Cash in hand and current accounts 303.8 354.8 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 101 15.
DISCONTINUED ACTIVITIES AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE The movements in assets and liabilities held for sale are shown in the table below: Assets Liabilities held for sale held for sale Total m m m As at 31 December 2015 Acquired in business combination 12.3 12.3 Reclassied as held for sale 55.7 22.9 32.8 Trading, working capital and revaluation movements 4.0 0.2 4.2 Disposal of Visa shares 8.4 8.4 Disposal of Conspo 3.9 3.9 As at 31 December 2016 59.7 22.7 37.0 Trading, working capital and revaluation movements 3.3 3.5 6.8 Impairment of Kalixa see note 15.2 1.6 1.6 Disposal of Kalixa see note 15.2 54.8 26.2 28.6 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 15.1 Discontinued Activities In November 2017 the Group announced the disposal of its Turkish-facing operations to Ropso Malta Limited for performance related earn-out consideration of up to a maximum amount of 150m receivable on a monthly basis over a five-year period, although the consideration was later waived.
The disposal group is being reported in the current year as a discontinued operation and the results to disposal are presented below for the eleven and a half months to disposal in 2017 and for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Period to 20 Year ended December 31 December 2017 2016 m m REVENUE 82.4 100.3 Cost of sales 39.8 56.4 CONTRIBUTION 42.6 43.9 Administrative costs 7.9 8.7 CLEAN EBITDA 34.7 35.2 Share based payments 0.3 0.1 Exceptional items 3.5 Depreciation and amortisation 0.1 0.2 OPERATING PROFIT AND PROFIT BEFORE TAX 30.8 34.9 Taxation expense 0.4 0.3 PROFIT AFTER TAX 30.4 34.6 Loss on sale of the subsidiary after income tax see below 46.1 LOSS PROFIT FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 15.7 34.6 There was no other income received which required disclosure within the statement of other comprehensive income.
102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 15.
DISCONTINUED ACTIVITIES AND ASSETS AND LIABILITIES CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE CONTINUED 15.1 Discontinued Activities continued The cash inow from operating activities in 2017 is broadly in line with the Clean EBITDA although in 2017 it is net of 5.8m disposed of as part of the working capital of the business sold and 3.5m of exceptional costs incurred.
There were no non-operating cashows associated with the discontinued activities in either financial year.
In the initial disposal management projected to receive earn out consideration of up to 150m based upon results within the disposed business over the next five years.
However this consideration was later waived resulting in a loss on disposal of 46.1m based on the carrying value of assets and liabilities as at the date of sale as below: m Goodwill 30.9 Property, plant and equipment 0.3 Derivative financial assets 3.7 Trade receivables 13.0 Cash and cash equivalents 5.8 TOTAL ASSETS 53.7 Trade and other payables 3.9 Client liabilities 1.4 Income taxes payable 2.3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 7.6 NET ASSETS 46.1 Loss per share relevant to the discontinued operations was 0.05 per share 2016: earnings of 0.13 per share.
Diluted loss per share was 0.05 per share 2016: earnings of 0.12 per share.
15.2 Other Assets and Liabilities Classied As Held For Sale The Group had classied and transferred its Kalixa business, a fully integrated digital payments company, as held for sale as at 31 March 2016 after its acquisition as part of the bwin.
The Group completed the sale of the majority of the Kalixa business on 31 May 2017.
It realised initial consideration of 29.0m in the year together with deferred consideration of 2.6m which was received in the second half of the year after paying down certain balances owing between the business groups.
As a result of fees and other trading movements, an impairment charge of 1.1m was recorded prior to the disposal of the business.
The remaining Kalixa business was disposed of on 1 August 2017, realising consideration of 0.9m.
An impairment charge of 0.5m was recorded prior to disposal to reect the net realisable value.
During the prior year the Group disposed of its joint venture investment in Conspo, a provider of sports content, which had also previously been classied as held for sale.
No further assets are considered as held for sale as at the year end.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 2017 2016 m m Other trade payables 25.8 40.4 Accruals 68.7 46.4 Contingent consideration note 16.1 9.6 Share option liability 1.6 7.1 CURRENT LIABILITIES 105.7 93.9 Contingent consideration note 16.1 10.9 4.4 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 10.9 4.4 16.1 Deferred Consideration Contingent consideration relates to amounts payable for the Zatrix acquisitions see note 28 and also for previous acquisitions by bwin.
The non-discounted book values of these amount to 10.0m 2016: nil payable within one year and 14.6m 2016: 5.8m payable after more than one year.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 103 17.
LOANS AND BORROWINGS 17.1 Interest Bearing Loan On 4 September 2015, the Group entered into an agreement with Cerberus Business Finance LLC for a loan of up to 400m, in order to part-fund the acquisition of bwin.
The Cerberus loan was repaid in January 2017 and an alternate bridge nancing facility of 250m provided by Nomura International plc was drawn down.
All associated fees were charged to the income statement at this time including the remaining value of the early repayment option on the Cerberus loan of 22.5m.
This bridging loan was then replaced with a long-term institutional loan in March 2017 comprising of a 320m Senior Secured Term and Revolving Facility, composed of a 250m term loan maturity six years and a 70m revolving credit facility maturity five years.
Subsequent to this, the Group renanced the applicable interest rate from EURIBOR 3.25% to EURIBOR 2.75% whilst extending the Term Loan by an extra 50m in a non-substantial modication to the loan.
The 70m credit facility was not drawn down during the year.
IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement, states that all financial liabilities should initially be measured at their fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
The effective interest has been calculated using the internal rate of return on the cash outows across the period of the loan.
Early Interest repayment Principal and fees option Total m m m m LOAN BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 20.0 0.2 19.8 Loan drawdown 380.0 380.0 Arising on business combinations 39.4 39.4 Revaluation of loan balances 0.4 0.4 Loan repayment 52.5 52.5 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid in the prior year 7.6 7.6 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid in the current year 7.9 7.9 Fair value of embedded derivatives 7.4 7.4 Interest charged 46.0 46.0 Interest instalments paid 39.7 39.7 Amortisation of loan fees 23.3 23.3 Unwinding of early repayment option 4.3 4.3 LOAN BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 386.5 13.9 3.1 403.5 Loan drawdown 550.0 550.0 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid 15.9 15.9 Loan repayment 636.5 636.5 Interest charged 14.2 17.3 Interest instalments paid 27.2 27.2 Amortisation of loan fees 10.4 7.3 Unwinding of early repayment option 3.1 3.1 LOAN BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 300.0 4.6 295.4 Split between the following as at 31 December 2016: CURRENT LIABILITIES 403.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Split between the following as at 31 December 2017: CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.2 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 295.2 The debit interest and fees balance of 4.6m 2016: credit balance of 13.9m includes a debit of loan fees outstanding of 5.5m 2016: credit balance of 7.6m netted against accrued loan interest of 0.9m 2016: 6.3m.
104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 18.
COMMITMENTS UNDER OPERATING LEASES 19.1 Operating Leases The Group leases various ofces under non-cancellable operating leases.
The leases have varying terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights.
The future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable leases are as follows: 2017 2016 m m No later than one year 7.2 5.9 Later than one year and no later than five years 22.7 16.5 More than five years 1.9 4.3 31.8 26.7 20.
PROVISIONS Provisions relate to onerous contracts and leases, where the future economic benets are less than the costs to be incurred, and legal provisions recognised at fair value as part of the bwin.
Further details on the largest legal provision are set out below in note 20.1.
Provisions for Other litigation provisions Total CURRENT m m m At 1 January 2016 Acquired through business combination 7.7 7.7 Utilised during the year 7.1 7.1 Transfer from non-current to current 0.6 0.6 AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 1.2 1.2 Created during the year Utilised during the year 1.2 1.2 Transfer from non-current to current 1.2 1.2 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.2 1.2 NON-CURRENT At 1 January 2016 Acquired through business combination 3.7 3.8 7.5 Utilised during the year Transfer from non-current to current 0.6 0.6 AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 3.7 3.2 6.9 Created during the year Utilised during the year Transfer from non-current to current 1.2 1.2 AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.7 2.0 5.7 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 105 20.
PROVISIONS CONTINUED 20.1 Provisions for Litigation On 16 October 2014, the Portuguese Supreme Court confirmed a ruling of the Oporto Court of First Instance of September 2011 against Liga Portuguese fide Futebol Prossional Liga and certain bwin.
In June 2012, the Portuguese Casino Association initiated enforcement proceedings against the Liga and bwin.
party, requesting the payment of pecuniary sanctions in the total amount of 6.4m for the alleged violation of the first instance court judgment during the period between 24 September 2011 and 31 January 2012.
party remain rmly of the view that such enforcement action is without merit.
The legal process is still ongoing.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in legal proceedings, on acquisition of bwin.
party in February 2016 the Group recognised a fair value provision for the legal case of 3.2m on a fair value basis together with a further provision of 0.5m for other unrelated legal cases.
20.2 Other Provisions Other provisions include other uncertainties around potential infrastructure, marketing or taxation costs where the Directors feel that there is a material but uncertain risk of outows to the business.
These have been measured based on the estimated probability of such outows occurring in the near future.
DEFERRED TAX Total m As at 1 January 2016 Acquired in business combination 79.6 Deferred tax credit 11.8 Transfer to liabilities held for sale 3.8 Foreign exchange and other movements 1.6 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 65.6 Acquired in business combination see note 28 2.4 Deferred tax credit 15.0 Foreign exchange and other movements 0.8 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 52.2 Deferred tax liabilities relate primarily to temporary differences arising from fair value adjustments of acquired intangibles and also the repatriation of profits from foreign jurisdictions.
SHARE CAPITAL On 1 February 2016 the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of bwin.
party digital entertainment plc bwin.
party, an online gaming company traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and listed on the Ofcial List Premium Segment, for total consideration of 1,508.2m.
Under the terms of the Acquisition, each bwin.
party shareholder received 25p plus 0.231 new GVC shares for each bwin.
party shareholding was 843.5m shares: accordingly, the Group issued 194.8m new shares to bwin.
Post the Acquisition, additional shares were issued to bwin.
party option-holders who had not exercised their options before the date of the Acquisition but did so subsequently and the value of these was included in the total consideration.
On the same date as the acquisition of bwin.
party, the Group issued additional shares at a price of 422p.
The additional share capital consisted of 28.0m Placing shares, including the subscription by Directors of shares under the terms of the LTIP, and 7.5m subscription shares.
The cash consideration for these shares was 150.0m, less costs incurred of 4.9m 6.4m, which were treated as a deduction from share premium.
During 2017 10.5m new shares 2016: 1.6m were issued to satisfy share options issuances.
The authorised and issued share capital is: 2017 2016 m m AUTHORISED Ordinary shares of 0.01 each At 31 December 350,000,000 shares 2016: 350,000,000 shares 3.5 3.5 ISSUED, CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID At 31 December 303,726,475 shares 2016: 293,268,229 shares 3.0 2.9 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 22.
SHARE CAPITAL CONTINUED The issued share capital history is shown below: 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 293,268,229 61,276,480 Issue of shares at acquisition 194,841,498 Issue of shares via placing 27,978,812 Issue of shares via subscription 7,566,212 Other share issues 10,458,246 1,605,227 Balance at 31 December 303,726,475 293,268,229 23.
DIVIDENDS The dividend history for 2017 is shown below.
Shares Per share Per share in issue Amount Amount Date declared Date paid c p m 15 December 2016 14 February 2017 14.9 12.5 293.5 43.8 37.5 23 March 2017 12 May 2017 15.1 13.1 296.6 45.0 38.1 14 September 2017 19 October 2017 16.5 14.6 301.0 49.8 44.7 138.6 120.3 In addition to the dividends paid in 2017, the Group has also paid 2.4m of dividend credit payments accruing on share options on awards not yet vested.
As a result of the acquisition of bwin.
party and the combination of debt covenants and the intended restructuring of the Group, the Directors did not pay any dividends in 2016.
The Group has announced a full year dividend of 17.5 c per share, payable in May 2018.
SHARE OPTION SCHEMES CONTINUED The existing share options at 31 December 2017 are held by the following employees and consultants: Option price 422p 467p 422p 422p 0p Grant date 02 February 02 February 16 December 30 March 2017 28 December 2016 2016 2016 2017 Total Kenneth Alexander 2,932,691 242,587 3,175,278 Paul Miles 350,000 94,339 444,339 Lee Feldman note c 1,466,345 1,466,345 Norbert Teufelberger note d 57,143 57,143 Employees 4,500,567 325,000 197,869 5,023,436 Consultants 525,557 28,832 554,389 2,989,834 1,466,345 5,026,124 675,000 563,627 10,720,930 Note a: 2010 LTIP Scheme These equity settled options were granted to certain Directors and employees.
The awards vested and become exercisable on the share price being equal to or exceeding 6.00 per share for a continuous period of 90 calendar days at any time from the date of grant.
The awards have been treated as vesting over a three-year period.
Note b: 2016 LTIP Scheme These equity settled awards were issued on completion of the acquisition of bwin.
The options vest and became exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition, over 30 months, with one-ninth vesting six months after the date of grant and a further ninth vesting at each subsequent quarter.
The options lapse, if not exercised, on 2 February 2026.
The performance condition is comparator total shareholder return TSR of the Group against the FTSE 250.
Each ninth of the shares will have its TSR condition reviewed from the date of grant until the relevant testing date.
To the extent the TSR is not met at that time, it is tested again the following quarter and, if necessary, at the end of the 30-month vesting period.
In order to vest, the TSR of the Group must rank at median or above against the FTSE 250.
Note c: 2016 LTIP Scheme These equity settled awards were issued on the same basis as the awards in note b but at a higher exercise price which represents the market value of the shares as at the date the scheme became effective.
In order to compensate Lee Feldman for the higher exercise price, the Company agreed to pay him a cash bonus of 2.0m over the 30-month vesting period of the option, but only upon option vesting and satisfaction of the performance condition described above, and he has to reinvest 50% of this in GVC shares.
Note d: 2016 LTIP Scheme These awards were issued on completion of the acquisition of bwin.
The equity-settled options, which are not subject to a performance condition, vest and become exercisable over 24 months, with one-seventh vesting six months after the date of grant and a further seventh vesting at each subsequent quarter.
Note e: 2016 MIP Scheme These equity settled awards were issued on the same basis as the awards in note b.
Note f: 2016 ASBP Scheme These cash settled awards in accordance with the Groups annual share bonus plan 2016.
Note g: 2017 LTIP Scheme These equity settled awards were awarded to certain Directors and employees and vest over a three-year period from the date of grant.
The number of awards to vest are conditional on both cumulative Earnings Per Share EPS exceeding 180 euro cents and TSR performance conditions being met which are split with equal weighting.
The charge to share-based payments within the consolidated income statement in respect of these options in 2017 was 18.0m 2016: 31.1m of which 11.5m related to equity settled options 2016: 24.0m and 5.4m to cash settled options 2016: 7.1m credit.
108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 24.
SHARE OPTION SCHEMES CONTINUED 24.1 Weighted Average Exercise Price of Options The number and weighted average exercise prices of share options is as follows: Weighted Weighted average Number of average Number of exercise price options exercise price options 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2017 2017 2016 2016 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 416p 22,619,227 11p 3,481,947 Granted during the year 158p 2,013,462 422p 26,621,148 Exercised during the year 399p 10,379,068 126p 1,123,613 Cancelled or forfeited in the year 422p 3,532,691 422p 6,360,255 Forfeited in the year Outstanding at the end of the year 416p 10,720,930 416p 22,619,227 Exercisable at the end of the year 6,004,045 5,236,844 The options outstanding at 31 December 2017 have a weighted average contractual life of 7.84 years 31 December 2016: 9.1 years.
24.2 Valuation of Options The fair value of services received in return for share options granted are measured by reference to the fair value of share options granted.
The Group engaged third-party valuation specialists to provide a fair value for the options.
For the 2016 LTIP scheme, the expected volatilities have been calculated using historical prices for companies that were constituents of the FTSE 250 at the grant date.
These options accrue dividend credits and the yield is assumed to be nil for 2016 and 10% thereafter.
As the schemes vest on a staggered basis over a period of up to 30 months, the volatilities have been calculated over each relevant time period.
The fair value of each phase of the options has been calculated separately, shown as a range in the table below, and the cost of each phase is allocated across the vesting period for that phase.
The 2017 LTIP plan was valued using both a Black Scholes valuation model and Monte Carlo valuation for the cumulative EPS and TSR conditions respectively.
Fair value of share options and assumptions: Share price Fair value at atdate Exercise Expected Expected Risk free measurement ofgrant price volatility Exercise dividend rate date Date of grant in in % multiple yield % in 02 Feb 16 equity settled 30 months 4.67 4.22 22%-30% n a n a n a 0.32-0.47 02 Feb 16 equity settled 30 months 4.67 4.67 22%-30% n a n a n a 0.22-0.28 02 Feb 16 equity settled 24 months 4.67 4.22 n a n a n a n a 0.32-0.47 16 Dec 16 equity settled 30 months 6.48 4.22 30%-28% n a n a n a 1.43-1.94 30 Mar 17 equity settled 30 months 7.28 4.22 30%-28% n a n a n a 1.88-2.39 28 Dec 17 equity settled 36 months 9.34 26.6% n a n a 0.43% 7.393-9.335 This is the bid price, not the mid-market price, at market close, as sourced from Bloomberg.
The measurement of the risk-free rate was based on rate of UK sovereign debt prevalent at each grant date over the expected term of the option.
24.3 Cash Settled Options At 31 December 2017 the liability for cash settled options was 1.6m 2017: 7.1m.
The movement in the year arises from the charge of cash settled options of 1.0m 2016: 7.1m and the settlement of schemes relating to the 2016 LTIP and ASBP schemes of6.5m 2016: 11.9m.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 109 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups principal financial instruments as at 31 December 2017 comprise cash and cash equivalents together with loan borrowings.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations and fund acquisitions and shareholder dividends.
The Group has other financial instruments which mainly comprise receivables and payables, which arise directly from its operations but also from its acquisition activity.
The Group does not typically use derivative financial instruments, other than foreign exchange contracts, to hedge its exposure to foreign exchange or interest rate risks arising from operational, nancing and investment activities.
During 2017, the Group did not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
25.1 Market Risk Market risk arises from the Groups use of interest-bearing, tradable and foreign currency financial instruments.
It is the risk that the fair value of future cashows on its long-term debt finance and cash investments through the use of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in interest rates interest rate risk, foreign exchange rates currency risk or other market factors otherprice risk.
Exposure to market risk arises in the normal course of the Groups business.
25.2 Foreign Exchange Risk Foreign exchange risk arises from transactions, recognised assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
The Groups general operating policy is that all material transaction and currency liability exposures are economically and fully hedged using foreign exchange contracts and or by holding cash in the relevant currency.
Following the drawdown of the Cerberus loan in February 2016, the Group held a large position in GBP to meet working capital requirements.
This resulted in a foreign exchange loss following the devaluation of sterling during 2016.
This amount was subsequently used in 2017 to hedge against significant GBP liabilities which arose including the dividend paid in February 2017 and repayment of the Cerberus loan.
The Group uses foreign exchange contracts to hedge its currency risk but as at 31 December 2017 there were no open foreign exchange contracts.
The Group is exposed to currency movements in the euro, arising out of changes in the fair value of financial instruments which areheld in non-euro currencies.
No individual non-euro currency position is considered material for the Group.
1 Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity The majority of the Groups financial assets and liabilities are denominated in euros.
Holding the majority of its assets in euros minimises the Groups exposure to currency translation risk.
In the prior year the Group held a significant holding of financial assets inGBP but this exposure was reduced during 2017 as the Group utilised part of its GBP cash balances in renancing its long-term loan and also to pay the dividend declared in December.
110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 25.2.
1 Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity continued Euro GBP Other Total AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 m m m m NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,540.0 8.8 5.4 1,554.2 Receivables and prepayments 43.2 21.9 50.5 115.6 Tax reclaimable 1.0 0.8 1.8 Short-term investments 4.0 1.0 5.0 Cash and cash equivalents 236.3 28.9 38.6 303.8 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 283.5 52.8 89.9 426.2 Trade and other payables 57.2 31.5 17.0 105.7 Balances with customers 50.4 19.5 47.5 117.4 Progressive prize pools 7.7 3.0 7.3 18.0 Loans and borrowings 0.2 0.2 Provisions 0.8 0.4 1.2 Taxation payable 11.7 0.1 11.8 OTHER TAXATION LIABILITIES 199.3 54.0 72.3 325.6 NET CURRENT LIABILITIES ASSETS 84.2 1.2 17.6 100.6 Trade and other payables 7.0 3.9 10.9 Derivative financial liabilities 12.0 12.0 Loans and borrowings 295.2 295.2 Provisions 5.1 0.6 5.7 Deferred tax 52.2 52.2 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 359.5 12.0 4.5 376.0 TOTAL ASSETS LESS TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,264.7 4.4 18.5 1,278.8 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 111 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 25.2 Foreign Exchange Risk continued 25.2.
1 Foreign Exchange Risk Sensitivity continued Euro GBP Other Total AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 m m m m NON-CURRENT ASSETS 1,607.0 22.5 8.2 1,637.7 Receivables and prepayments 57.6 24.1 23.5 105.2 Derivative financial assets 26.2 26.2 Tax reclaimable 6.7 6.7 Short term investments 5.4 5.4 Cash and cash equivalents 164.0 171.7 19.1 354.8 Assets held for sale 36.2 8.1 15.4 59.7 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 296.1 203.9 58.0 558.0 Trade and other payables 37.6 42.2 14.1 93.9 Balances with customers 74.2 15.7 44.9 134.8 Loans and borrowings 403.5 403.5 Provisions 0.7 0.5 1.2 Taxation payable 15.5 0.6 2.1 18.2 Other taxation liabilities 45.2 2.0 0.0 47.2 Liabilities held for sale 7.9 6.5 8.3 22.7 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 584.6 67.0 69.9 721.5 NET CURRENT ASSETS LIABILITIES 288.5 136.9 11.9 163.5 Trade and other payables 4.4 4.4 Provisions 6.3 0.6 6.9 Deferred tax 65.5 0.1 65.6 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 19.9 2.7 22.6 TOTAL ASSETS LESS TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,246.7 159.3 8.7 1,397.3 25.3 Interest Rate Risk The Group earns interest from bank deposits.
During the year, the Group held cash on deposits with a range of maturities of less than three months.
On 4 September 2015, the Group entered into an agreement with Cerberus Business Finance LLC for a loan of up to 400m, in order to part-fund the proposed acquisition of bwin.
At 31 December 2016, the Group had 386.5m of committed and drawn-down borrowing facilities under this loan arrangement, including 13.5m repaid during the year.
The interest on these loans was based on EURIBOR with a oor of 1%, plus a margin of 11.5%.
This facility was repaid on 31 January 2017 and new nancing was taken out with Nomura Plc with an interest rate of 3.25% EURIBOR.
This facility was later repaid in March 2017 and replaced with a six-year institutional Term Loan with an interest rate of 3.25% EURIBOR and a five-year 70m revolving credit facility with an interest rate of 2.75% EURIBOR.
Management do not consider the impact of possible interest rate movements based on current market conditions to be material to the net result for the year or the equity position at the year end.
112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 25.4 Credit Risk The Group seldom has any significant concentrations of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of customers.
The Group grants credit facilities to its customers and the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amount ofeach financial asset in the Statement of Financial Position.
The Group has material exposure to credit risk through amounts owed by payment processors third party collection agencies of 54.1m 2016: 60.0m and cash and cash equivalent balances held with banking institutions of 308.8m 2016: 372.4m.
There is an inherent concentration of risk with PSPs, most of which are not investment grade banks, in that the majority derive most of their income from the online gaming sector.
To this end, where practicable and economic, the Group seeks to substitute non-investment grade PSPs with investment grade, or, at least, better quality PSPs.
The Group considers the general credit risk associated with these balances to be low, having assessed the credit ratings and financial strength of the counter-parties involved.
Nevertheless theGroup maintains a general provision against the recovery of these processing entities.
In 2016, for one particular processor the Group considered that a specic provision was necessary due to concerns about the recoverability of that specic debt and accordingly a specic impairment of 4.2m was recorded in the year ended 31 December2016.
No further significant receivable amounts were past due date at 31 December 2017 2016: nil.
25.5 Liquidity and Capital Risk Liquidity risk arises from the Groups management of its working capital as well as the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt instruments.
In essence, it is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due.
Management monitors liquidity to ensure that sufficient liquid resources are available to the Group.
The Groups principal financial assets are cash, bank deposits, loans and trade and other receivables.
In common with many internet companies that have few physical assets, the Group has no policy as to the level of equity capital and reserves other than to address statutory requirements.
The primary capital risk to the Group is the level of debt relative to the Groups net income.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments of 308.8m 2016: 372.4m.
At the end of 2016 current assets were signicantly lower than current liabilities, this predominantly related to the Cerberus loan which was renanced to a longer term facility in 2017.
Accordingly, the liquidity risk for the Group is now judged to be low.
1 Maturity Analysis All financial liabilities within the Groups balance sheet are due within one year except for certain contingent consideration of 19.6m which falls due based on certain events.
Managements best estimates are that these will fall due after more than one year but before five years.
2 Net Debt 2017 2016 m m Loans and borrowings 300.0 386.5 Client liabilities 117.4 112.0 Gross debt 417.4 498.5 Cash and cash equivalents 303.8 367.0 Short-term investments 5.0 5.4 NET DEBT 108.6 126.1 Balances with payment processors 54.1 60.0 NET DEBT ADJUSTED FOR PAYMENT PROCESSORS 54.5 66.1 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 113 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 25.6 Fair Values The carrying amounts of the financial assets and liabilities, including deferred consideration in the Statement of Financial Position at31 December 2017 and 2016 for the Group and Company are a reasonable approximation of their fair values.
Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position are grouped into three levels ofafair value hierarchy.
The three levels are dened based on the observability of significant inputs to the measurement, as follows: Level 1: quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities: Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly orindirectly: and Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The following table shows the levels within the hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basisat 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 m m m m FINANCIAL ASSETS Available for sale financial assets 2.8 0.5 3.3 Deferred consideration 0.9 0.9 Contingent consideration 0.6 3.9 4.5 3.4 5.3 8.7 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Contingent consideration 20.5 20.5 Derivative financial liabilities 12.0 12.0 32.5 32.5 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 m m m m FINANCIAL ASSETS Available for sale financial assets 2.2 0.4 2.6 Deferred consideration 1.8 1.8 Contingent consideration 0.6 4.0 4.6 Derivative financial assets 26.2 26.2 2.8 32.4 35.2 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Contingent consideration 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.4 There were no transfers between levels in 2017 or 2016.
Measure of fair value of financial instruments: The Groups finance team performs valuations of financial items for financial reporting purposes, including Level 3 fair values, in consultation with third-party valuation specialists for complex valuations.
Valuation techniques are selected based on the characteristics of each instrument, with the overall objective of maximising the use of market-based information.
The valuation techniques for the derivative financial assets and liabilities are described in further detail in note 12.
The valuation technique for the available for sale asset and the contingent and deferred consideration assets and liabilities were discounted cashow forecasts using the weighted average cost of capital and expected cashows.
114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 25.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 25.7 Summary of Financial Assets and Liabilities by Category The carrying amounts of the Groups financial assets and liabilities recognised at the reporting date are categorised as follows: 2017 2016 m m NON-CURRENT ASSETS: Available for sale financial assets 3.3 2.6 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Deferred and contingent consideration 1.9 4.9 Non-current assets 5.2 7.5 CURRENT ASSETS: Financial assets measured as loans and receivables: Trade and other receivables 96.8 108.0 Short-term investments 5.0 9.9 Cash and cash equivalents 303.8 367.0 Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss: Deferred and contingent consideration 2.5 1.5 Derivative financial assets 26.2 Current assets 408.1 512.6 CURRENT LIABILITIES: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Trade and other payables 96.1 114.0 Loans and borrowings 0.2 403.5 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: Contingent consideration 9.6 Current liabilities 105.7 517.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost: Loans and borrowings 295.2 Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss: Contingent consideration 10.9 4.4 Derivative financial liabilities 12.0 Non-current liabilities 318.1 4.4 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 115 26.
RELATED PARTIES 26.1 Identity of Related Parties The Group has a related party relationship with its subsidiaries and with its Directors and executive ofcers.
26.2 Transactions with Directors and Key Management Personnel Karl Diacono is the Chief Executive officer of Fenlex Corporate Services Limited, a corporate service provider incorporated in Malta.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, Fenlex received 0.1 from the Group in relation to Company Secretarial and other matters arising in Malta 2016: 0.1m.
Peter Isola is a partner at Isolas, a law rm in Gibraltar which charged legal expenses of 0.1m to the Group 2016: 0.2m.
Lee Feldman received dividends during the year of 0.4m 2016: nil in respect of his beneficial interest in the Ordinary Share capital of the Group.
Lee Feldman is the Managing Partner of Twin Lakes Capital, a private equity rm based in New York.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, Twin Lakes Capital received 0.1m 2016: 0.1m in relation to ofce services.
Kenneth Alexander received dividends during the year of 0.7m 2016: nil.
The wife of Kenneth Alexander received dividends during the year of 0.1m 2016: nil in respect of her interest in the Ordinary Share capital of the Group.
Norbert Teufelberger received dividends of 1.1m during the year 2016: nil.
The Group purchased certain customer services of 2.4m 2016: 2.5m from an associate, with amounts owed at 31 December 2017 of 0.2m 2016: 0.2m.
26.3 Transactions with Directors and Key Management Personnel Details of the remuneration of key management are detailed below: 2017 2016 m m Short term employee benets Directors 12.5 7.3 Short term employee benets Key Management 1.6 2.6 Share based payments 34.5 25.5 48.6 35.4 27.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 27.1 Historical Taxes in Greece Along with multiple other online gaming operators, one of the Groups subsidiaries operating under a Greek interim gaming licence received a tax audit assessment from the Greek Audit Centre for Large Enterprises in respect of 2010 and 2011 the Assessment.
During this period the business was owned by Sportingbet plc, prior to its acquisition by GVC in 2013.
The total amount of the Assessment is 186.77m, substantially higher by multiples of the total Greek revenues generated by the subsidiary during the relevant periods.
Legal and tax advice has been received from the Groups Greek professional advisers and this sets out that the Groups subsidiary has strong grounds to appeal the Assessment and in 2018 it has led an appeal.
In the interim, to enable the Groups subsidiary to continue to trade normally, it has entered into a payment scheme with the relevant authority whereby funds are paid to that authority and held on account of approximately 7.8m a month for 24 months.
The Board strongly disputes the basis of the Assessment calculation, believing the assessed quantum to be widely exaggerated and is confident in the grounds of appeal.
The Directors do not feel that it is probable that a liability will arise.
27.2 East Pioneer Corporation Guarantee On 21 November 2011 the Group entered into a service agreement and guarantee relating to the acquisition by East Pioneer Corporation B. V. EPC from Sportingbet Plc of Superbahis, a Turkish language website.
The maximum contingent liability under this agreement at inception was 171m.
Prior to the disposal of the Turkish-facing business the Directors considered this to have a fair value of nil 2016: nil.
Following the sale of the Turkish-facing business any contingent liability was extinguished.
116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS It is part of the core strategy for the Group to improve the quality and mix of the Groups earnings through acquisitions, especially where these increase the markets in which the Group trades and where there are opportunities for high levels of cash generation through synergies.
28.1 Acquisition of Cozy Games On 9 August 2017, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the group of companies comprising Cozy Games.
Cozy Games specialises in the development and delivery of various games, including bingo, classic and video slots, table games, scratch cards and network jackpots.
The terms of the acquisition included an upfront payment of 26.2m together with a capital injection of up to 0.8m to increase the property, plant and equipment base of the Cozy Games group.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition is set out in the table below: Fair value m ASSETS Intangible assets 23.4 Property, plant and equipment 0.2 Trade and other receivables 1.0 Cash 7.7 Total assets 32.3 LIABILITIES Trade and other payables 7.5 Client liabilities and progressive prize pools 0.3 Taxation including gaming tax 0.3 Deferred tax 2.0 Total liabilities 10.1 NET ASSETS 22.2 Fair value of consideration paid 30.1 Goodwill recognised 7.9 BUSINESS COMBINATION COSTS 0.3 The fair value of trade and other receivables was 0.9m and included trade receivables and payment processor balances with a fair value of 0.8m.
Intangible assets acquired include the brand, a technology platform and the customer base.
The goodwill consists ofassembled workforce, future growth andbusiness reputation.
In the year ended 31 December 2016, Cozy Games reported revenue of 14.3m and loss before tax of 3.6m.
If the Acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the year, the continuing revenue of the combined entity in the 12 months to 31 December 2017 would have been 907.3m and the loss before tax would have been 23.1m.
Following the acquisition, GVC has already achieved synergistic savings through integration and restructuring of personnel and operations.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 117 28. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS CONTINUED 28.2 Acquisition of Zatrix In October 2017 the Group acquired the majority of the trade and assets of a business engaged in the promotion of various online betting and gaming websites in Greece.
Consideration is a combination of initial upfront payments of 14.4m and contingent consideration dependent on performance of up to 20m payable over three years.
The fair value of the assets and liabilities recognised at the date of acquisition is set out in the table below: Fair value m ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Intangible assets 4.6 Deferred tax 0.4 NET ASSETS 4.2 Fair value of consideration paid 31.2 Goodwill recognised 27.0 BUSINESS COMBINATION COSTS 0.1 The Intangible asset acquired was a brand operating in the Greek market.
The goodwill consists of future growth and business reputation.
Following the acquisition, GVC expects to achieve synergistic benets in 2017.
NON-CONTROLLING INTERESTS Non-controlling interests includes a 10% holding in bwin.
party entertainment NJ LLC, a company incorporated in the United States.
The loss attributable to the non-controlling interest was 0.2m 2016: 0.3m.
The balance of retained earnings attributable to non-controlling interests is disclosed in the table below: Total m As at January 2016 Acquired through business combination 1.2 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.3 As at 31 December 2016 1.5 Loss attributable to non-controlling interests 0.2 Foreign exchange movements 0.1 AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 1.8 30.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 30.1 Ladbrokes Coral Offer On 22 December 2017 the Boards of GVC and Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Ladbrokes Coral announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer by GVC to acquire the entire issued and to be issued Ordinary Share capital of Ladbrokes Coral the Offer, which is to be effected by means of a Court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Ladbrokes Coral under Part 26 of the Companies Act.
Under the terms of the Offer, Ladbrokes Coral shareholders are entitled to 32.7p in cash and 0.141 ordinary GVC shares for each Ladbrokes Coral share, and a potential further value of up to 42.8p structured as a contingent value right.
118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIALSTATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 30.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS CONTINUED 30.1 Ladbrokes Coral Offer continued The Boards believe that a transaction has the potential to create material shareholder value and that there is a compelling strategic rationale for the Offer.
The enlarged Group would be an online-led globally positioned betting and gaming business that would benefit from a multi-brand, multi-channel strategy applied across some of the strongest brands in the sector.
The enlarged Group would be geographically diversied with a large portfolio of businesses across both regulated and developing markets, with the scale and resources to address the dynamics of a rapidly changing global industry.
The transaction would also enhance the enlarged Groups position in a number of the worlds largest regulated online gaming markets, including the UK, Italy and Australia, and would signicantly increase GVCs current share of revenues from locally regulated taxed markets to more than 90%.
The enlarged Group would have strong growth prospects with momentum in its online businesses, potential for material synergies including the use ofleading proprietary technology, and the opportunity to select the best of both people and operations.
GVC published a prospectus in respect of the offer on 9 February 2018 and Ladbrokes Coral published its scheme document on 9 February 2018.
On 8 March 2018 all resolutions were duly passed in favour of the proposed acquisition by GVC shareholders.
Completion of the transaction is also subject to certain regulatory approvals.
Subject to these various approvals being forthcoming, itis anticipated the transaction will complete at the end of March early April 2018.
30.2 Mars LLC Crystalbet Acquisition On 5 March the Group announced the acquisition of 51% of the shareholding of an online gaming business trading in Georgia for 41.3m with an agreement to purchase the outstanding 49% of the business for further consideration of up to 150m in 2021.
The business acquired is a leading online gaming operator offering sports betting, casino games, poker and peer to peer games.
Whilst accounting for the acquisition has not been completed, intangible assets acquired are expected to include the technology platform, customer lists and the gaming brands as well as goodwill.
Completion is not subject to regulatory approval and isexpectedto occur by the end of March 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 119 CO MPANY BALANCE SHEET for the year ended 31 December 2017 2017 2016 Notes m m FIXED ASSETS Investments 3 1,617.8 1,603.9 CURRENT ASSETS Debtors 4 298.5 128.0 Derivative financial instruments 5 26.2 Cash at bank and in hand 6 43.1 98.5 341.6 252.7 TOTAL ASSETS 1,959.4 1,856.6 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR 7 481.1 580.7 NET CURRENT ASSETS LIABILITIES 139.5 328.0 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR Creditors 8 295.2 Derivative financial instruments 5 12.0 Total non-current liabilities 307.2 TOTAL NET ASSETS 1,171.1 1,275.9 CAPITAL AND RESERVES Issued share capital 3.0 2.9 Share premium 1,525.3 1,478.4 Merger reserve 40.4 40.4 Retained earnings 397.6 245.8 TOTAL EQUITY 1,171.1 1,275.9 The Financial Statements from pages 119 to 120 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2018 and signed on their behalf by: KJ Alexander P Miles Chief Executive officer Chief Financial officer 120 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CO MPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY for the year ended 31 December 2017 Share Share Merger Retained capital premium reserve earnings Total Notes m m m m m Balance at 1 January 2016 0.6 85.4 40.4 129.4 3.0 Issue of share capital 2.3 1,391.9 1,394.2 Share option charges 10 10.9 10.9 Share options surrendered 10 0.8 0.8 Share options through subsidiaries 10 13.1 13.1 Share options exercised 10 1.1 7.2 6.1 Transactions with owners 2.3 1,393.0 16.0 1,411.3 Loss for the year 132.4 132.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 132.4 132.4 BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 2.9 1,478.4 40.4 245.8 1,275.9 Balance at 1 January 2017 2.9 1,478.4 40.4 245.8 1,275.9 Share option charges 10 23.9 23.9 Share options exercised 10 0.1 46.9 47.0 Dividend paid 141.0 141.0 Transactions with owners 0.1 46.9 117.1 70.1 Loss for the year 34.7 34.7 Total comprehensive loss for the year 34.7 34.7 BALANCE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 3.0 1,525.3 40.4 397.6 1,171.1 All reserves of the Company are distributable, as under the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006 distributions are not governed by reserves but by the Directors undertaking an assessment of the Companys solvency at the time of distribution section 49, Companies Act Isle of Man 2006.
The notes on pages 121 to 127 form part of these financial statements.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 121 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 31 December 2017 Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at 1.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit A summary of the significant accounting policies are set out below.
or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial These policies have been applied consistently to the years presented, assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are 1.1 Basis of Preparation recognised immediately in profit or loss.
The financial information has been prepared on the historical cost basis with the exception of those assets and liabilities which are carried at Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the fair value, and in accordance with applicable Isle of Man law and United cashows from the financial asset expire, or when the financial asset Kingdom accounting standards.
and substantially all the risks and rewards are transferred.
A financial liability is derecognised when it is extinguished, discharged, cancelled As permitted under FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of or expires.
the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to business combinations, financial instruments, share based payments, 1.6.
1 Non-derivative Financial Instruments fair values, presentation of a cashow statement and certain related Non-derivative financial instruments comprise debtors, loans and party transactions.
Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in borrowings, and trade and other creditors.
Non-derivative financial the consolidated financial statements.
instruments are recognised initially at fair value, plus, for instruments not at fair value through profit or loss, any directly attributable 1.2 Investments transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less amounts financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the written off.
Provisions for impairment are made against 1.3 Foreign Currency Translation financial assets if considered appropriate and any impairment is The Company maintains its accounting records in euro and the recognised in profit or loss.
balance sheet is expressed in this currency.
2 Available for Sale Financial Assets AFS are translated at the exchange rates ruling at the transaction date.
AFS financial assets are non-derivative financial assets that are either Fixed assets are valued using historical exchange rates.
Other current designated to this category or do not qualify for inclusion in any of the assets and liabilities expressed in foreign currencies are translated other categories of financial assets.
into euros at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date.
Realised exchange gains and losses and unrealised exchange losses AFS financial assets are measured at fair value.
Gains and losses are are recognised in the profit and loss account.
recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses, except for interest and dividend income, impairment losses and foreign 1.4 Fixed Assets exchange differences on monetary assets, which are recognised in Investments in subsidiaries are shown as xed assets in the Company profit or loss.
Balance Sheet, and are valued at cost less any provision for impairment in value.
When the asset is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss recognised in the statement of total recognised 1.5 Share based Payments gains and losses is reclassied to profit or loss.
Interest calculated The Group has share based payment schemes which allow certain using the effective interest method and dividends are recognised in employees and contractors to acquire shares of the Company.
profit or loss within finance income.
The Group has accounted for these under IFRS 2 Share Based Payments.
As the related services are received by subsidiary entities, For AFS equity investments impairment reversals are not recognised the Company accounts for these as a capital contribution made to inprot or loss and any subsequent increase in fair value is recognised relevant subsidiaries.
in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
3 Impairment of Financial Assets The fair value of options granted under the LTIP and MIP schemes Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at the are recognised as an investment in subsidiary with a corresponding end ofeach reporting period.
Financial assets are considered to increase in equity.
The fair value is measured at grant date and spread be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of over the period during which the employees become unconditionally one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the entitled to the options.
The fair value of the options granted are financial asset, the estimated future cashows of the investment measured using either a binomial or Monte Carlo valuation model.
This valuation method takes into account the terms and conditions Objective evidence of impairment could include: upon which the options were granted.
The amount recognised as an significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or investment is adjusted to reect the actual number of share options that vest and market conditions if applicable.
breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest orprincipal payments: or Employers Social Security Costs Employers social security costs due on the cash cancellation of it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy options and the employee gain on exercised options will be paid by ornancial reorganisation: or theCompany and shown within share based payments.
the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset 1.6 Financial instruments because of financial difficulties.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
122 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 Management are currently reviewing the various classications of 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED financial instruments used by the Company but do not believe that 1.7 Going Concern there will be any material changes to the classications used in the The Directors have assessed the financial risk facing the Company Companys financial instruments.
Where there are any changes to and have compared this risk assessment to the net current liability classication, it is not expected to result in any material adjustments position of the Company and the Group.
The Directors have reviewed to the Companys results in future periods.
The Company does not relationships with creditors and key suppliers and are satisfied that currently use hedging instruments but will consider the implications the appropriate contingency plans are in place.
The Directors have ofthis new standard when considering and implementing the hedging reviewed cashow forecasts and consider that the Company has instruments it will utilise going forward.
It is not considered that the adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons credit loss model will result in any significant material impairment to they therefore have continued to prepare the accounts on a going the Companys financial instruments although there may be a larger concern basis.
individual impact on the amounts due to the Company, particularly 1.8 significant Judgements with respect to the amounts owed to the Company by other Group In the application of the accounting policies, which are detailed in undertakings which are individually material to the Company.
this note, the Directors are required to make judgements, estimates 2.
PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities The loss for the year dealt with in the accounts of the Company was that are not readily apparent from other sources.
The Company has not presented a associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other separate profit and loss account.
factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are 3.
INVESTMENTS reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the 2017 2016 revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and m m future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY The estimates and assumptions, which have a significant risk of UNDERTAKINGS causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and At 1 January 1,603.9 84.0 liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
1 Debtors Management applies judgement in evaluating the recoverability of At 31 December 1,617.8 1,603.9 amounts owed by Group undertakings.
To the extent that the Board believes receivables not to be recovered they have been provided 2017 2016 forinthese consolidated financial statements.
2 Share Options AVAILABLE FOR SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS Accounting for share option charges requires a degree of judgement At 1 January 2.6 over such matters as dividend yield and expected volatility.
Further details on the assumptions made by management are Impairment 0.7 disclosed in note 26 of the Group financial statements.
5 Carrying Value of Investments At 31 December Determining whether investments in subsidiaries are impaired requires an assessment of impairment indicators and, if indicators exist, and estimation of their recoverable amounts.
The calculation of recoverable Total investments 31 December 1,617.8 1,603.9 amount requires the entity to estimate the future cashows expected to arise from the investments and select a suitable discount rate in order Share option schemes to calculate present value.
The Company has further increased its investment of 13.9m in certain subsidiary companies as a consequence of the MIP option scheme 1.9 Standards in Issue, Not Yet Effective see note 24 of the consolidated group.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, certain new standards, and amendments to existing standards have been published by the IASB that are not yet effective, and have not been adopted early by the Company.
Information on those expected to berelevant to the Companys financial statements is provided below.
1 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments The IASB has released IFRS 9 Financial Instruments 2014, representing the completion of its project to replace IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
The new standard introduces extensive changes to IAS 39s guidance on the classication and measurement of financial assets and introduces a new expected credit loss model for the impairment of financial assets together with new guidance on the application of hedge accounting.
The new standard is required to be applied for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 123 3.
INVESTMENTS CONTINUED Subsidiaries The significant subsidiaries of the Company are detailed below: Ownership interest 2017 2016 Subsidiary Country of incorporation % % 1 GVC Services B. V. Netherlands Antilles 100 100 Intera N. V. Netherlands Antilles 100 100 2 Bluebell B. V. Netherlands Antilles 100 100 Sporting Odds Limited England and Wales 100 100 Interactive Sports C. I.
Limited Alderney 100 100 Longfrie Limited Guernsey 100 100 Martingale Malta 2 Limited Malta 100 100 2 Headlong Limited Malta 100 100 Electraworks Limited Gibraltar 100 100 PartyGaming IA Limited Bermuda 100 100 PartyGaming Finance Limited Bermuda 100 100 1.
Also has a branch registered in Israel.
DEBTORS 2017 2016 m m Amounts owed by Group undertakings 297.5 124.3 Other debtors 0.5 2.2 Prepayments and accrued income 0.5 1.5 298.5 128.0 5.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Winunited Early repayment Betit Poker option option option options Total m m m m m BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 3.8 0.7 3.1 Disposal in the year 0.7 0.7 Recognised on loan drawdown 7.4 7.4 Movement in fair value 0.1 15.1 15.0 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 3.7 22.5 26.2 Disposed of in the year 3.7 3.7 Released in the year 22.5 22.5 Recognised in the year 12.0 12.0 BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 12.0 12.0 5.1 Winunited Option On 24 March 2015, GVC contracted with Winunited Limited for the day-to-day back ofce operations of the Winunited business, licensed in Malta.
During the year there were no discernible changes to the inputs into the valuation and accordingly no revaluation was performed prior to the transferral of the asset to assets held for sale as part of the announced sale of the Turkish-facing business which was disposed of during the year see note 15.1 in the Group accounts.
124 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 5.
DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CONTINUED 5.2 Cerberus Loan Early Repayment Option On 2 February 2016 a further 380m was drawn down under the Cerberus loan facility.
The facility had a repayment date of 4 September 2017 but has been repaid earlier see note 17.
Early repayment would change the prole and size of the cash payments and this feature was identied as an embedded derivative therefore separated from the host contract.
The option was valued by a third party valuation specialist based on the contracted cashows under the terms of the facility and measuring the cost saving opportunities resulting from an early repayment and obtaining of new nancing at a lower rate.
Given the renance agreement disclosed in note 17 in the Group accounts, there was considered to be minimal sensitivity of the inputs to the valuation.
5.3 Betit Option On 14 May 2014, the Group acquired a 15% stake in Betit Holdings Limited BHL.
5.4 Poker Options During 2017 the Group entered into a marketing services agreement with its principal ofine tournament partner with the purpose of organising and promoting series of live poker events under the partypoker LIVE brand to look to increase trafc to partypoker.
As part of entering into this agreement the Company has entered into a put and call arrangement in respect of the entire issued share capital of the Company set up by its ofine partner dedicated to this agreement, which is exercisable by the Group or its partner on completion of the five-year agreement.
CREDITORS 2017 2016 m m Amounts due to Group undertakings 470.8 167.9 Interest-bearing loan see note 8.1 below 0.2 403.5 Other creditors 10.1 9.3 Creditors: amounts due within one year 481.1 580.7 Other creditors 0.7 Share option liability 2.1 Interest bearing loan 295.2 19.8 Creditors: amounts after more than one year 295.2 22.6 GVC Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2017 125 8.
LOANS AND BORROWINGS 8.1 Interest Bearing Loan On 4 September 2015, the Group entered into an agreement with Cerberus Business Finance LLC for a loan of up to 400m, in order to part-fund the acquisition of bwin.
The Cerberus loan was repaid in January 2017 and an alternate bridge nancing facility of 250m provided by Nomura Internationalplc was drawn down.
Subsequent to this, the Group renanced the applicable interest rate from EURIBOR 3.25% to EURIBOR 2.75% whilst extendingthe Term Loan by an extra 50m in a non-substantial modication to the loan.
The 70m credit facility was not drawn downduring the year.
Early Interest and repayment Principal fees carried option Total m m m m LOAN BALANCE AT 1 JANUARY 2016 20.0 0.2 19.8 Loan drawdown 380.0 380.0 Arising on business combinations 39.4 39.4 Revaluation of loan balances 0.4 0.4 Loan repayment 52.5 52.5 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid prior year 7.6 7.6 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid current year 7.9 7.9 Fair value of embedded derivatives 7.4 7.4 Interest charged 46.0 46.0 Interest instalments paid 39.7 39.7 Amortisation of loan fees 23.3 23.3 Amortisation of early repayment option 4.3 4.3 LOAN BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2016 386.9 13.5 3.1 403.5 Loan drawdown 386.5 13.9 3.1 403.5 Arrangement fees and loan services fees paid 550.0 550.0 Loan repayment 15.9 15.9 Interest charged 636.5 636.5 Interest instalments paid 14.2 14.2 Amortisation of loan fees 27.2 24.1 Amortisation of early repayment option 10.4 10.4 LOAN BALANCE AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 300.0 4.6 295.4 Split between the following as at 31 December 2016: CURRENT LIABILITIES 403.5 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES Split between the following as at 31 December 2017: CURRENT LIABILITIES 0.2 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 295.2 126 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2017 9.
CALLED UP EQUITY SHARE CAPITAL On 21 May 2010 shareholders of Gaming VC Holdings S. A. approved a redomiciliation to Luxembourg which resulted, pari passu, in shareholders holding shares with a nominal value of 0.01 in GVC Holdings PLC.
As a result of this transaction, GVC Holdings PLC acquired all the assets and liabilities of Gaming VC Holdings S. A.
Arising from this transaction was the creation of a Merger Reserve, which is distributable.
The authorised and issued share capital is: 2017 2016 m m AUTHORISED Ordinary Shares of 0.01 each At 31 December 3.5 3.5 ISSUED, CALLED UP AND FULLY PAID At 31 December 61,276,480 shares 2015: 61,276,480 shares 3.0 2.9 1.
The authorised share capital was increased as part of the Groups acquisition of Sportingbet PLC.
The issued share capital history is shown below: 2017 2016 Balance at 1 January 293,268,229 61,276,480 Issue of shares at acquisition 194,841,498 Issue of shares via placing 27,978,812 Issue of shares via subscription 7,566,212 Other share issues 10,458,246 1,605,227 Balance at 31 December 303,726,475 293,268,229 10.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 11.1 Ladbrokes Coral Offer On 22 December 2017 the Boards of GVC and Ladbrokes Coral Group plc Ladbrokes Coral announced that they had reached agreement on the terms of a recommended offer by GVC to acquire the entire issued and to be issued Ordinary Share capital of Ladbrokes Coral the Offer, which is to be effected by means of a Court-sanctioned scheme of arrangement of Ladbrokes Coral under Part 26 of the Companies Act.
The Boards believe that a transaction has the potential to create material shareholder value and that there is a compelling strategic rationale for the Offer.
The enlarged Group would have strong growth prospects with momentum in its online businesses, potential for material synergies including the use of leading proprietary technology, and the opportunity to select the best of both people and operations.
11.2 Crystalbet Acquisition On 5 March the Group announced the acquisition of 51% of the shareholding of an online gaming business trading in Georgia for 41.3m with an agreement to purchase the outstanding 49% of the business for further consideration of up to 150m in 2021.
The business acquired is a leading online gaming operator offering sports betting, casino games, poker and peer-to-peer games.
Completion is not subject to regulatory approval and is expected to occur by the end of March 2018.
