Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Accounting policies he consolidated financial statements of WPP plc Basis of consolidation and its subsidiaries the Group for the year The consolidated financial statements include the results ended 31December 2017 have been prepared in of the Company and all its subsidiary undertakings made T accordance with International Financial Reporting up to the same accounting date.
All intra-Group balances, Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union as transactions, income and expenses are eliminated in full they apply to the financial statements of the Group for on consolidation.
The results of subsidiary undertakings the year ended 31 December 2017. acquired or disposed of during the period are included The Groups financial statements have also been or excluded from the consolidated income statement prepared in accordance with International Financial from the effective date of acquisition or disposal.
Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Presentation The Group has changed its accounting policy in regard Basis of preparation to the presentation of the income statement under IAS 1 The consolidated financial statements have been prepared Presentation of Financial Statements for the year ended under the historical cost convention, except for the 31 December 2017, moving from a nature of expense revaluation of certain financial instruments.
The principal method of presentation to a function of expense method of accounting policies are set out below.
The Group considers this to be a more reliable and relevant presentation and prior years have been re-presented in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors.
This change in accounting policy has not resulted in a change to revenue, operating profit or profit for any of the years presented.
113 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Goodwill and other intangible assets Contingent consideration Intangible assets comprise goodwill, certain acquired Contingent consideration is accounted for in accordance separable corporate brand names, acquired customer with IFRS 3 Business Combinations.
Contingent relationships, acquired proprietary tools and capitalised consideration only applies to situations where contingent computer software not integral to a related item payments are not dependent on future employment of of hardware.
vendors and any such payments are expensed when they Goodwill represents the excess of fair value attributed relate to future employment.
to investments in businesses or subsidiary undertakings Future anticipated payments to vendors in respect of over the fair value of the underlying net assets, including contingent consideration earnout agreements are initially intangible assets, at the date of their acquisition.
recorded at fair value which is the present value of the Goodwill impairment reviews are undertaken annually expected cash outflows of the obligations.
The obligations or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances are dependent on the future financial performance of the indicate a potential impairment.
The carrying value of interests acquired typically over a fourto five-year period goodwill is compared to the net present value of future cash following the year of acquisition and assume the operating flows derived from the underlying assets using a projection companies improve profits in line with directors estimates.
period of up to five years for each cash-generating unit.
After The directors derive their estimates from internal business the projection period a steady growth rate representing an plans together with financial due diligence performed in appropriate long-term growth rate for the industry is applied.
Any impairment is recognised immediately as an expense Subsequent adjustments to the fair value are recorded and is not subsequently reversed.
in the consolidated income statement within revaluation Corporate brand names, customer relationships and of financial instruments.
proprietary tools acquired as part of acquisitions of businesses are capitalised separately from goodwill as Property, plant and equipment intangible assets if their value can be measured reliably Property, plant and equipment are shown at cost less on initial recognition and it is probable that the expected accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset with the exception of freehold land which is not depreciated.
The Group assesses the carrying value of its property, plant Certain corporate brands of the Group are considered to and equipment to determine if any impairment has occurred.
have an indefinite economic life because of the institutional Where this indicates that an asset may be impaired, the nature of the corporate brand names, their proven ability Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of to maintain market leadership and profitable operations Assets in assessing the carrying amount of the asset.
This over long periods of time and the Groups commitment process includes comparing its recoverable amount with its to develop and enhance their value.
The carrying value carrying value.
Depreciation is provided at rates calculated of these intangible assets is reviewed at least annually to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each for impairment and adjusted to the recoverable amount asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, if required.
as follows: Amortisation is provided at rates calculated to write Freehold buildings 50 years.
off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset on a Leasehold land and buildings over the term straight-line basis over its estimated useful life as follows: of the lease or life of the asset, if shorter.
Brand names with finite lives 10-20 years.
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 3-10 years.
Other including capitalised computer software 3-5 years.
114 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Interests in associates and joint ventures Trade receivables An associate is an entity over which the Group has Trade receivables are stated net of provisions for bad significant influence.
In certain circumstances, significant and doubtful debts.
influence may be represented by factors other than ownership and voting rights, such as representation Foreign currency and interest rate hedging on the Board of Directors.
The Groups policy on interest rate and foreign exchange The Groups share of the profits less losses of associate rate management sets out the instruments and methods undertakings net of tax, interest and non-controlling available to hedge interest and currency risk exposures interests is included in the consolidated income statement and the control procedures in place to ensure effectiveness.
and the Groups share of net assets is shown within interests The Group uses derivative financial instruments to in associates in the consolidated balance sheet.
The Groups reduce exposure to foreign exchange risk and interest rate share of the profits less losses and net assets is based on movements.
The Group does not hold or issue derivative current information produced by the undertakings, adjusted financial instruments for speculative purposes.
to conform with the accounting policies of the Group.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at The Group assesses the carrying value of its associate the date a derivative contract is entered into and are undertakings to determine if any impairment has occurred.
subsequently remeasured to their fair value at each balance Where this indicates that an investment may be impaired, sheet date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit the Group applies the requirements of IAS 36 in assessing or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and the carrying amount of the investment.
This process includes effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing comparing its recoverable amount with its carrying value.
of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature The Group accounts for joint venture investments under of the hedge relationship.
the equity method which is consistent with the Groups At the inception of the hedge relationship the entity treatment of associates.
documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item, along with its risk management objectives Other investments and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Other investments are designated as available for sale Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an and are shown at fair value with any movements in fair ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging value taken to equity.
instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly On disposal the cumulative gain or loss previously effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows recognised in equity is included in the profit or loss for of the hedged item.
Note 25 contains details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes.
Inventory and work in progress Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated Work in progress is valued at cost, which includes outlays and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or loss incurred on behalf of clients and an appropriate proportion immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of directly attributable costs and overheads on incomplete of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Provision is made for irrecoverable costs The effective portion of changes in the fair value of where appropriate.
Inventory is stated at the lower of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow cost and net realisable value.
or net investment hedges is deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, the gains and losses previously deferred in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost of the asset or liability.
115 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging Revenue recognition instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, Revenue comprises commission and fees earned in respect or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, of amounts billed.
Pass-through costs comprise fees paid any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument to external suppliers where they are engaged to perform recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast part or all of a specific project and are charged directly transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction is no longer to clients, predominantly media and data collection costs.
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss Revenue is stated exclusive of VAT, sales taxes and recognised in equity is transferred to net profit or trade discounts.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments Advertising and Media Investment Management or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives Revenue is typically derived from commissions on media when their risks and characteristics are not closely related placements and fees for advertising services.
Revenue may to those of host contracts and the host contracts are consist of various arrangements involving commissions, not carried at fair value with unrealised gains or losses fees, incentive-based revenue or a combination of the reported in the consolidated income statement.
three, as agreed upon with each client.
Revenue is recognised when the service is performed, in Liabilities in respect of option agreements accordance with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Option agreements that allow the Groups equity partners The amount of revenue recognised depends on whether we to require the Group to purchase a non-controlling interest act as an agent or as a principal in an arrangement with a are treated as derivatives over equity instruments and are client.
Where we act as an agent, the revenue recorded is the recorded in the consolidated balance sheet initially at the net amount retained when the fee or commission is earned.
present value of the redemption amount in accordance Although the Group may bear credit risk in respect of these with IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and activities, the arrangements with our clients are such that subsequently measured at fair value in accordance with IAS we consider that we are acting as an agent on their behalf.
39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
In such cases, costs incurred with external suppliers such The movement in the fair value is recognised as income as media suppliers are excluded from our revenue.
Where or expense within revaluation of financial instruments the Group acts as a principal the revenue recorded is the in the consolidated income statement.
Incentive-based revenue typically comprises both Derecognition of financial liabilities quantitative and qualitative elements: on the element related In accordance with IAS 39 Financial Instruments: to quantitative targets, revenue is recognised when the Recognition and Measurement, a financial liability of the quantitative targets have been achieved: on the element Group is only released to the consolidated income statement related to qualitative targets, revenue is recognised when when the underlying legal obligation is extinguished.
the incentive is received or receivable.
The Group receives volume rebates from certain Debt suppliers for transactions entered into on behalf of clients Interest-bearing debt is recorded at the proceeds received, that, based on the terms of the relevant contracts and local net of direct issue costs.
law, are either remitted to clients or retained by the Group.
If amounts are passed on to clients they are recorded as Borrowing costs liabilities until settled or, if retained by the Group, are Finance costs of borrowing are recognised in the recorded as revenue when earned.
consolidated income statement over the term of those borrowings.
116 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Data Investment Management Public Relations & Public Affairs and Revenue recognised in proportion to the level of service Brand Consulting, Health & Wellness performed for market research contracts is based on and Specialist Communications proportional performance.
In assessing contract Revenue is typically derived from retainer fees and services performance, both input and output criteria are reviewed.
to be performed subject to specific agreement.
Revenue is Costs incurred are used as an objective input measure of recognised when the service is performed, in accordance performance.
The primary input of all work performed with the terms of the contractual arrangement.
Revenue is under these arrangements is labour.
As a result of the recognised on long-term contracts, if the final outcome can relationship between labour and cost, there is normally be assessed with reasonable certainty, by including in the a direct relationship between costs incurred and the consolidated income statement revenue and related costs proportion of the contract performed to date.
Costs as contract activity progresses.
incurred as a proportion of expected total costs is used as an initial proportional performance measure.
Taxation This indicative proportional performance measure is Corporate taxes are payable on taxable profits at current subsequently validated against other more subjective rates.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax criteria i. e. relevant output measures such as the currently payable and deferred tax.
percentage of interviews completed, percentage of reports The Group is subject to corporate taxes in a number delivered to a client and the achievement of any project of different jurisdictions and judgement is required in milestones stipulated in the contract.
In the event of determining the appropriate provision for transactions divergence between the objective and more subjective where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
In measures, the more subjective measures take precedence such circumstances, the Group recognises liabilities for since these are output measures.
anticipated taxes based on the best information available While most of the studies provided in connection and where the anticipated liability is both probable and with the Groups market research contracts are undertaken estimable, liabilities are classified as current.
Any interest in response to an individual clients or group of clients and penalties accrued are included in corporate income specifications, in certain instances a study may be taxes both in the consolidated income statement and developed as an off-the-shelf product offering sold to balance sheet.
Where the final outcome of such matters a broad client base.
For these transactions, revenue is differs from the amount recorded, any differences may recognised when the product is delivered.
Where the impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in terms of transaction provide for licensing the product the period in which the final determination is made.
on a subscription basis, revenue is recognised over The tax laws that apply to the Groups subsidiaries may the subscription period on a straight-line basis or, be amended by the relevant tax authorities.
Such potential if applicable, based on usage.
amendments are regularly monitored and adjustments are Substantially all services are provided on a fixed price made to the Groups tax liabilities and deferred tax assets basis.
Pricing may also include a provision for a surcharge and liabilities where necessary.
where the actual labour hours incurred in completing a The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for project are significantly above the labour hours quoted in the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported the project proposal.
In instances where this occurs, the in the consolidated income statement because it excludes surcharge will be included in the total revenue base on items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible which to measure proportional performance when the in other years and it further excludes items that are never actual threshold is reached provided that collectability taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current is reasonably assured.
tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
117 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or Retirement benefit costs recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts The Group accounts for retirement benefit costs of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable For defined contribution plans, contributions profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability are charged to the consolidated income statement method.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all as payable in respect of the accounting period.
taxable temporary differences unless specifically excepted For defined benefit plans the amounts charged to by IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is charged or operating profit are the current service costs, past service credited in the consolidated income statement, except costs, administrative expenses and gains and losses on when it relates to items charged or credited to other settlements and curtailments.
They are included as part comprehensive income or directly to equity, in which case of staff costs.
Past service costs are recognised immediately the deferred tax is also dealt with in other comprehensive in the consolidated income statement when the related income or equity.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to plan amendment occurs.
Net interest expense is calculated the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be by applying the discount rate to the recognised overall available against which deductible temporary differences surplus or deficit in the plan.
can be utilised, which can require the use of accounting Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately estimation and the exercise of judgement.
Such assets and in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference Where defined benefit plans are funded, the assets arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or other of the plan are held separately from those of the Group, assets and liabilities other than in a business combination in separate independently managed funds.
Pension plan in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are nor the accounting profit.
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable and are updated at each balance sheet date.
temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries Recognition of a surplus in a defined benefit plan and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where is limited based on the economic gain the Company the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary is expected to benefit from in the future by means of difference and it is probable that the temporary difference a refund or reduction in future contributions to the will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
plan, in accordance with IAS 19.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets Finance leases against current tax liabilities and when they relate to Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the of the Group at the inception of the lease at the lower of Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease on a net basis.
Depreciation on leased assets is charged to the Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are consolidated income statement on the same basis as owned expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled assets.
Leasing payments are treated as consisting of capital or the asset is realised based on enacted or substantively and interest elements and the interest is charged to the enacted legislation.
consolidated income statement as it is incurred.
Operating leases Operating lease rentals are charged to the consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Any premium or discount on the acquisition of a lease is spread over the life of the lease on a straight-line basis.
118 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Translation of foreign currencies IFRS 9 is effective from 1 January 2018.
It contains Foreign currency transactions arising from normal trading requirements for the classification and measurement of activities are recorded at the rates in effect at the date of the financial assets and liabilities, impairment introducing an transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated expected loss method and hedge accounting.
The Group in foreign currencies at the year end are translated at the does not consider that it will have a significant impact on year-end exchange rate.
Foreign currency gains and losses the financial statements of the Group, particularly given are credited or charged to the consolidated income the short-term nature of the Groups trade receivables, statement as they arise.
which are mainly due from large national or multinational The income statements of overseas subsidiary companies.
The principal impact will be for equity undertakings are translated into pounds sterling at investments currently designated as available for sale, average exchange rates and the year-end net assets of where the Group will elect to recognise the fair value these companies are translated at year-end exchange rates.
movements of certain equity investments through other Exchange differences arising from retranslation of the comprehensive income.
Fair value movements of certain opening net assets and on foreign currency borrowings other equity investments will be recognised in profit or loss.
to the extent that they hedge the Groups investment IFRS 15 is effective from 1 January 2018 and it will be in such operations are reported in the consolidated applied retrospectively to each prior period presented, we statement of comprehensive income.
do not expect the adoption of IFRS 15 to have a significant Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the impact on the timing of the Groups revenue recognition acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and nor on the Groups equity.
liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the However, for certain of our contracts, the adoption closing rate.
of IFRS 15 will result in a change in our accounting for certain third-party costs.
Third-party costs are included Share-based payments in revenue where the Group acts as principal with respect The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to the services provided to the client and is excluded where including share options to certain employees and accounts the Group acts as agent.
Under IFRS 15, the principal for these awards in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-Based versus agent assessment is based on whether we control the Payment.
Equity-settled share-based payments are relevant services before they are transferred to the client.
measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-marketAs a result of the adoption of IFRS 15, there will be an based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
Details increase in third-party costs included in revenue and regarding the fair value of equity settled share-based costs of services.
In 2017, these third-party costs were transactions are set out in notes 22 and 26. approximately 500 million.
This change will increase The fair value determined at the grant date is recognised revenue and costs of services by the same amount and in the consolidated income statement as an expense on a therefore have no impact on operating profit.
straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based IFRS 16 is effective from 1 January 2019.
The standard on the Groups estimate of the number of shares that will eliminates the classification of leases as either operating ultimately vest and adjusted for the effect of non-marketor finance leases and introduces a single accounting model.
Lessees will be required to recognise a right-of-use asset and related lease liability for the majority of their operating New IFRS accounting pronouncements leases and show depreciation of leased assets and interest At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, on lease liabilities separately in the income statement.
IFRS the following Standards, which have not been applied 16 will require the Group to recognise substantially all of in these financial statements, were in issue but not its current operating lease commitments on the balance yet effective: sheet and the financial impact of this, together with other IFRS 9: Financial Instruments: implications of the standard, are currently being assessed.
IFRS 15: Revenue from Contracts with Customers: and IFRS 16: Leases.
119 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our 2017 consolidated financial statements Accounting policies Critical judgements and estimation Directors responsibility statement uncertainty in applying accounting policies We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Management is required to make key decisions and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with judgements whilst acknowledging there is estimation the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true uncertainty in the process of applying the Groups and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position accounting policies.
These estimates and judgements and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Where judgement included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and has been applied or estimation uncertainty exists, the strategic report includes a fair review of the the key factors taken into consideration are disclosed development and performance of the business and in the accounting policies and the appropriate note the position of the Company and the undertakings in these financial statements.
included in the consolidation taken as a whole, The most significant areas of estimation uncertainty together with a description of the principal risks include: and uncertainties they face.
Goodwill note 12 : The discounted cash flow methodology employed by the Group when testing Roberto Quarta Paul Richardson for goodwill impairment requires estimates regarding Executive Chairman Group Finance Director revenue growth, operating margins, discount rates 24 April 2018 and working capital requirements.
Payments due to vendors earnout agreements and liabilities in respect of put options: Estimates are required regarding growth rates in deriving future financial performance and discount rates to be applied when measuring the liabilities for earnouts and put options.
Further details are disclosed in note 25.
Provision for post-employment benefits note 23 : Estimates are required in the accounting for defined benefit pension plans, including establishing discount rates, rates of increase in salaries and pensions in payment, inflation and mortality assumptions.
These estimates are made by management based on the advice of qualified advisors.
The most significant areas of judgements include: Revenue recognition: Judgement is required regarding the timing of recognition, particularly in relation to media volume income with regards to whether it is required to be passed back to the client.
Further details are set out in the accounting policy.
Taxation note 7 : Judgement is required in relation to the level of provisions required and the amount of taxes that will be due, particularly given the many countries in which the Group operates.
120 WPPAnnual Report 2017 The numbers in full 121 WPPAnnual Report 2017
