103 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 OPINION We have audited the financial statements of Playtech Plc the Parent Company and its subsidiaries the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income: Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity: Consolidated and Parent Company Statements of Cash Flows, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the BASIS FOR OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group and the Parent Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO PRINCIPAL RISKS, GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY STATEMENT We have nothing to report in respect of the following information in the Annual Report, in relation to which the ISAs UK require us to report to you whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to: the disclosures in the Annual Report set out on page 54 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation set out on page 96 in the Annual Report that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: the directors statement set out on page 96 in the financial statements about whether the directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements and the directors identification of any material uncertainties to the Group and the Parent Companys ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements: the directors explanation set out on page 96 in the Annual Report as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
104 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONT.
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2017 Revenue recognition with reference to Note 2 Key audit matter Our response The Group has a number of revenue streams.
The details of the We assessed the design and implementation of the controls over the accounting policies applied during the period are given in Note 2 to Groups revenue cycles.
We assessed whether the revenue recognition policies adopted by Management make certain judgements around revenue recognition the Group comply with IFRS and Industry standard.
and the treatment of contractual arrangements for revenue streams entered into by both the Gaming including B2B and B2C and We tested revenue through substantive procedures.
There is a potential risk that revenue is recorded included the use of IT audit data analytic techniques to underpin our incorrectly from a timing perspective and that it is inappropriately substantive testing of the revenue recognised by both the Gaming recognised on a gross versus net basis.
including B2B and B2C and Financials Divisions.
We reviewed a sample of key contracts entered into during the year to assess whether the revenue had been recognised in accordance with the Groups accounting policy, appropriately from a timing as well as a gross v net perspective and whether any other terms within the contract had any material accounting or disclosure implications.
Impairment of goodwill, capitalised development costs and other intangibles with reference to Note 12 Key audit matter Our response In accordance with IAS 36, the Group monitors the carrying value We considered managements assessment as to whether there were of goodwill and other intangibles for indications of impairment.
The any indications of impairment in respect of intangible assets.
Group performs annual impairment reviews for goodwill and for other intangibles where there are indicators of impairment and for The audit team, which includes valuation specialists, challenged the capitalised development costs relating to projects not launched as at appropriateness of the key assumptions used in the discounted cash the year end.
flow models prepared by management and applied sensitivities to assess the potential impairment of goodwill and those assets where Impairment reviews require significant judgement from management indications of impairment were present.
Our work was based on our and are inherently based on assumptions in respect of future assessment of the historical accuracy of the Groups estimates in profitability.
previous periods, our understanding of the commercial prospects of the assets, identification and analysis of changes in assumptions from IAS 36 also requires management to test intangible assets not yet prior periods and an assessment of the consistency of assumptions available for use such as projects in development for impairment.
If the carrying value of these assets exceeds their recoverable amount We selected a sample of projects not yet launched at the balance there is a risk of material misstatement in the carrying value of these sheet date and confirmed that there remains a future intent to launch.
Further to this we reviewed the results of managements impairment review of these assets on a portfolio basis.
We considered the appropriateness of the related disclosure provided in the Group financial statements.
