147 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 26 ACQUISITIONS DURING THE YEAR CONTINUED C. OTHER ACQUISITIONS CONTINUED Adjustments to fair value include the following: Amount Amortisation 000 % IP Technology 2,345 12.5-50 Customer relationships 353 12.5 The main factor leading to the recognition of goodwill is the frontend framework and its software integration, unique workforce and future revenue and cost synergies.
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group will regularly monitor the carrying value of its interest in these acquisitions.
The key assumptions used by management to determine the value in use of the IP Technology and Customers relationship within these acquisitions are as follows: The income approach, in particular, the MPEEM method and the with and without models.
The discount rate assumed is equivalent to the WACC for the IP Technology and the Customer relationship.
The growth rates and attrition rates were based on market analysis.
Management has not disclosed other acquisitions contribution to the Group profit since these acquisitions nor has the impact the acquisition would have had on the Groups revenue and profits if it had occurred on 1 January 2017 been disclosed, because the amounts are not material.
NOTE 27 ACQUISITIONS IN PRIOR YEAR A.
ACQUISITION OF QUICKSPIN AB On 24 May 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Quickspin AB Quickspin.
Quickspin is a Swedish games studio that develops and supplies high quality video slots to operators, both in online real money gambling as well as in the social gaming market.
The Group paid total cash consideration of 24.5 million SEK 228.4 million and additional consideration capped at 26.0 million SEK 242.9 million in cash will be payable subject to achieving target EBITDA.
ACQUISITION OF PLAYTECH BGT SPORTS LIMITED PREVIOUSLY NAMED PATELLE LIMITED On 13 July 2016, the Group acquired 100% of the shares of Patelle Limited.
Patelle owns 90% of Best Gaming Technology GmbH BGT.
BGT is an Austrian leading provider of sports betting software and solutions for gaming and sports betting operators.
The remaining 10% of the shares are held by the founder and CEO of BGT.
The Group paid total cash consideration of 138.5 million.
The Group has a call option to purchase the remaining 10% of BGT at a valuation of 6 times 2019 EBITDA capped at 55.0 million.
The founder and CEO of BGT has certain put options over his 10% holding at the same valuation.
In December 2017 the Group announced the internal re-organisation of the Playtech BGT Sports division PBS.
As part of the re-organisation the basis for the consideration payable on the put call was revised, which will result in Dr. Segeder will be rewarded for the incremental growth of the non-BGT business in addition to the BGT standalone business.
The maximum amount payable pursuant to the revised arrangements was increased to 95.0 million.
The increase in the liability fair value as a result of the revised put call option terms was recognised as employment cost in the income statement and non-current liability.
The fair value of the put call option liability as of 31 December 2017 was 25.9 million.
The founder and CEO of BGT may also be entitled to an additional payment of 5.0 million subject to the achievement of certain operational milestones.
Total payments in the current year are 2.0 million.
