150 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONT.
NOTE 29 SUBSIDIARIES Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries as at the end of the year are set out below: Proportion of voting rights and Country of ordinary share Name incorporation capital held Nature of business Playtech Software Limited Isle of Man 100% Main trading company of the Group, owns the intellectual property rights and licenses the software to customers.
OU Playtech Estonia Estonia 100% Designs, develops and manufactures online software.
Techplay Marketing Limited Israel 100% Marketing and advertising.
Video B Holding Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Trading company for the Videobet software, owns the intellectual property rights of Videobet and licenses it to customers.
OU Videobet Estonia 100% Develops software for fixed odds betting terminals and casino machines as opposed to online software.
Playtech Bulgaria Bulgaria 100% Designs, develops and manufactures online software.
PTVB Management Limited Isle of Man 100% Management.
Evermore Trading Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holding company.
Playtech Services Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100% Activates the ipoker Network in regulated markets.
Owns the intellectual property of GTS, Ash and Geneity businesses.
VB Video Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100% Trading company for the Videobet product to Romanian companies.
Software Limited Israel 100% Develops online software.
Technology Trading IOM Limited Isle of Man 100% Owns the intellectual property rights of Virtue Fusion business.
Gaming Technology Solutions Limited UK 100% Holding company of VS Gaming and VS Technology.
Virtue Fusion Alderney Limited Alderney 100% Online bingo and casino software provider.
Virtue Fusion CM Limited UK 100% Chat moderation services provider to end users of VF licensees.
Playtech Software Alderney Limited Alderney 100% To hold the companys Alderney Gaming license.
Intelligent Gaming Systems Limited UK 100% Casino management systems to land based businesses.
VF 2011 Limited Alderney 100% Holds license in Alderney for online gaming and Bingo B2C operations.
PT Turnkey Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holding company of the Turnkey Services group.
PT Turnkey EU Services Limited Cyprus 100% Turnkey services for EU online gaming operators.
PT Entertenimiento Online EAD Bulgaria 100% Poker & Bingo network for Spain.
PT Marketing Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Marketing services to online gaming operators.
PT Operational Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Operational & hosting services to online gaming operators.
Tech Hosting Limited Alderney 100% Alderney Hosting services.
Paragon International Customer British Virgin Island & branch 100% English Customer support, chat, fraud, finance, Care Limited office in the Philippines dedicated employees services to parent company.
CSMS Limited Bulgaria 100% Consulting and online technical support, data mining processing and advertising services to parent company.
TCSP Limited Serbia 100% Operational services for Serbia.
S-Tech Limited British Virgin Islands & 100% Live games services to Asia.
branch office in the Philippines 151 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Proportion of voting rights and Country of ordinary share Name incorporation capital held Nature of business PT Advisory Services Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Holds PT Processing Advisory Ltd. PT Processing Advisory Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Advisory services for processing & cashier to online gaming operators.
PT Processing EU Advisory Limited Cyprus 100% Advisory services for processing & cashier for EU online gaming operators.
PT Network Management Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Manages the ipoker network.
Playtech Mobile Cyprus Limited Cyprus 100% Holds the IP of Mobenga AB.
Playtech Holding Sweden AB Limited Sweden 100% Holding company of Mobenga AB.
Mobenga AB Limited Sweden 100% Mobile sportsbook betting platform developer.
Ash Gaming Limited UK 100% Develops interactive gambling and betting games.
Geneity Limited UK 100% Develops Sportsbook and Lottery software.
Factime Limited Cyprus 100% Holding company of Juego.
Juego Online EAD Bulgaria 100% Gaming operator.
PlayLot Limited British Virgin Islands 100% Distributing lottery software.
PokerStrategy Ltd. Gibraltar 100% Operates poker community business.
Videobet Interactive Sweden AB Sweden 100% Trading company for the Aristocrat Lotteries VLTs.
Video Italia S. r. l. Italy 100% Trading company for the Aristocrat Lotteries VLTs.
PT Entertainment Services LTD Antigua 100% Holding gaming license in the UK.
Tradetech Markets Limited Isle of man 98.62% Owns the intellectual property rights and marketing and technology contracts of the financial division.
Safecap Limited Cyprus 98.62% Primary trading company of the Financial division.
Licensed investment firm and regulated by Cysec.
TradeFXIL limited Israel 98.62% Financial division sales, client retention, R&D and marketing.
ICCS BG Bulgaria 98.62% Financial division back office customer support.
Licensed and regulated investment firm.
Stronglogic Services Limited Cyprus 98.62% Maintains the financial division marketing function for EU operations.
Yoyo Games Limited UK 100% Casual game development technology.
Quickspin AB Sweden 100% Owns video slots intellectual property.
Best Gaming Technology GmbH Austria 90% Owns sports betting intellectual property solutions and primary trading company for sports betting.
ECM Systems Holdings Ltd UK 90% Owns bingo software intellectual property and bingo hardware.
Consolidated Financial Holdings AS Denmark 75.86% Owns the intellectual property which provides brokerage services, liquidity and risk management tool.
CFH Clearing Limited UK 75.86% Primary trading company of CFH Group.
Eyecon Limited Alderney 100% Develops and provides online gaming slots.
Tradetech Alpha Limited Isle of Man 100% Regulated FCA broker providing trading, risk management and liquidity solutions.
152 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONT.
NOTE 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to a variety of financial risks, which results from its financing, operating and investing activities.
The objective of financial risk management is to contain, where appropriate, exposures in these financial risks to limit any negative impact on the Groups financial performance and position.
The Groups financial instruments are its cash, available-for-sale financial assets, trade receivables, loan receivables, bank borrowings, accounts payable and accrued expenses.
The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Groups operation.
The Group actively measures, monitors and manages its financial risk exposures by various functions pursuant to the segregation of duties and principals.
The risks arising from the Groups financial instruments are credit risk and market price risk, which include interest rate risk, currency risk and equity price risk.
The risk management policies employed by the Group to manage these risks are discussed below.
MARKET RISK Market risk changes in line with fluctuations in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates, equities and commodities prices.
These market prices affect the Groups income or the value of its holding in financial instruments.
Exposure to market risk In the financial trading division, the Group has exposure to market risk to the extent that it has open positions.
The Groups exposure to market risk at any point in time depends primarily on short-term market conditions and client activities during the trading day.
The exposure at each reporting date is therefore not considered representative of the market risk exposure faced by the Group over the year.
The Groups exposure to market risk is mainly determined by the clients open position.
The most significant market risk faced by the Group on the CFD products it offers changes in line with market changes and the volume of clients transactions.
Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in market interest rates.
The Groups income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest changes.
The management monitors interest rate fluctuations on a continuous basis and acts accordingly.
Where the Group has generated a significant amount of cash, it will invest in higher earning interest deposit accounts.
These deposit accounts are short term and the Group is not unduly exposed to market interest rate fluctuations.
During the year the Group advanced loans to affiliates and associates for a total amount of 8.5 million 2016: 5.5 million.
The average interest on the loans is 5%.
A 1% change in deposit interest rates would impact on the profit before tax by 85 thousands.
CREDIT RISK Credit risk arises when a failure by counterparties to discharge their obligations could reduce the amount of future cash inflows from financial assets on hand at the balance sheet date.
The Group closely monitors the activities of its counterparties and controls the access to its intellectual property which enables it to ensure the prompt collection of customers balances.
The Groups main financial assets are cash and cash equivalents as well as trade and other receivables and represent the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk in connection with its financial assets.
Trade and other receivables are carried on the balance sheet net of bad debt provisions estimated by the Directors based on prior year experience and an evaluation of prevailing economic circumstances.
153 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE 30 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED B.
CREDIT RISK CONTINUED Wherever possible and commercially practical the Group invests cash with major financial institutions that have a rating of at least Aas defined by Standard & Poors.
While the majority of money is held in line with the above policy, a small amount is held at various institutions with no rating.
The Group also holds small deposits in Cypriot and Spanish financial institutions, as required by the respective gaming regulators that have a rating below A-.
The Group holds approximately 3% of its funds 2016: 4% in financial institutions below Arate and 8% in payment methods with no rating 2016:2%.
Financial Financial institutions institutions with Aand below Arating Total above rating and no rating 000 000 000 At 31 December 2017 583,957 520,147 63,810 At 31 December 2016 544,843 476,904 67,939 The Group has no credit risk to clients since all accounts have an automatic margin call, which relates to a guaranteed stop such that the clients maximum loss is covered by the deposit.
The Group has risk management and monitoring processes for clients accounts and this is achieved via margin calling and close-out process.
The ageing of trade receivables that are past due but not impaired can be analysed as follows: More than 1-2 months 2 months Total Not past due overdue past due 000 000 000 000 At 31 December 2017 107,165 82,517 16,075 8,573 At 31 December 2016 73,744 55,928 5,325 12,491 The above balances relate to customers with no default history and management estimate full recoverability given the provision below.
A provision for doubtful debtors is included within trade receivables that can be reconciled as follows: 2017 2016 000 000 Provision at the beginning of the year 1,132 86 Charged to income statement 565 795 Provision acquired through business combination 404 Utilised 267 153 Provision at end of year 1,430 1,132 Related party receivables included in Note 16 are not past due.
C. CURRENCY RISK Currency risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will fluctuate due to changes in foreign exchange rates.
Foreign exchange risk arises because the Group has operations located in various parts of the world.
However, the functional currency of those operations is the same as the Groups primary functional currency Euro and the Group is not substantially exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates in respect of assets held overseas.
Foreign exchange risk also arises when Group operations are entered into, and when the Group holds cash balances, in currencies denominated in a currency other than the functional currency.
The Groups policy is not to enter into any currency hedging transactions.
