F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Alternative Performance Measures The Company uses the following Alternative Performance Measures APMs.
APMs do not have a standard meaning prescribed by GAAP and therefore may not be comparable to similar measures presented by other entities.
Discount or Premium the share price of an Investment Company is derived from buyers and sellers trading their shares on the stock market.
If the share price is lower than the NAV per share, the shares are trading at a discount.
This usually indicates that there are more sellers than buyers.
Shares trading at a price above the NAV per share, are said to be at a premium.
Dividend Cover The percentage by which Profits for the year less Gains losses on investment properties and loss on redemption on interest rate swaps cover the dividend paid.
A reconciliation of dividend cover is shown below: 2017 2016 000 000 Profit for the year 92,710 50,154 Add back: Unrealised gains on revaluation of investment properties 52,854 9,507 Losses gains on sales of investment properties realised 5 215 Loss on redemption of interest rate swap 1,283 Profit before investment gains and losses 39,861 41,715 Dividends 47,962 47,962 Dividend Cover percentage 83.1 87.0 Dividend Yield The annualised dividend divided by the share price at the year end.
An analysis of dividends is contained in note 6 to the accounts.
Net Gearing Borrowings less cash divided by total assets less current liabilities and cash.
Ongoing Charges All operating costs incurred by the Company, expressed as a proportion of its average Net Assets over the reporting year.
The costs of buying and selling investments and derivatives are excluded, as are interest costs, taxation, non-recurring costs and the costs of buying back or issuing Ordinary Shares.
Ongoing Charges excluding performance fee is calculated as recommended by The Association of Investment Companies AIC and includes direct operating property costs.
An additional Ongoing Charge figure is shown on page 6 which excludes direct operating property costs as these are variable in nature and tend to be specific to lease events occurring during the period.
Portfolio Property Capital Return The change in property value during the period after taking account of property purchases and sales and capital expenditure, calculated on a quarterly time-weighted basis.
Portfolio Property Income Return The income derived from a property during the period as a percentage of the property value, taking account of direct property expenditure, calculated on a quarterly time-weighted basis.
Portfolio Property Total Return Combining the Portfolio Capital Return and Portfolio Income Return over the period, calculated on a quarterly time-weighted basis.
Total Return The return to shareholders calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in the Share Price or NAV.
The dividends are assumed to have been reinvested in the form of Ordinary Shares or Net Assets, respectively, on the date on which they were quoted ex-dividend.
