FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT OTHER INFORMATION How to Invest How to Invest One of the most convenient ways to invest in F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Investments.
One of the most convenient ways to invest in Trust Name is through one of the savings plans run by F&C Investments.
Charges F&C Investment Trust ISA Annual management charges and other charges apply according to You can use your ISA allowance to make an annual taxthe type of plan.
efficient investment of up to 20,000 for the 2018 19 tax year with a lump sum from 500 or regular savings from Annual account charge 50 a month per Trust.
You can also transfer any existing ISA: 60 VAT PIP: 40 VAT ISAs to us whilst maintaining the tax benefits JISA CIP CTF: 25 VAT You can pay the annual charge from your account, or by direct debit F&C Junior ISA JISA in addition to any annual subscription limits.
You can invest up to 4,260 for the tax year 2018 19 from Dealing charges 500 lump sum or 30 a month per Trust, or a combination ISA: 0.2% of both.
Please note, if your child already has a Child PIP CIP JISA: postal instructions 12, online instructions 8 per Trust Fund CTF, then you cannot open a separate JISA, Trust.
however you can transfer the existing CTF held either with Dealing charges apply when shares are bought or sold but not on F&C or another provider to an F&C JISA the reinvestment of dividends or the investment of monthly direct debits for the PIP, CIP and JISA.
F&C Child Trust Fund CTF There are no dealing charges on a CTF but a switching charge of If your child has a CTF you can invest up to 4,260 for the 25 applies if more than 2 switches are carried out in one year.
2018 19 tax year, from 100 lump sum or 25 a month Government stamp duty of 0.5% also applies on the purchase of per Trust, or a combination of both.
You can also transfer a shares where applicable.
CTF from another provider to an F&C CTF.
Please note, the There may be additional charges made if you transfer a plan to CTF has been replaced by the JISA and is only available to another provider or transfer the shares from your plan.
investors who already hold a CTF.
For full details of our savings plans and charges, please read the Key Features and Terms and Conditions of the plan available on our F&C Private Investor Plan PIP website fandc.
This is a flexible way to invest in our range of Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, and How to Invest To open a new F&C savings plan, apply online at fandc.
com apply investments can be made from 500 lump sum or 50 a month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum Note, this is not available if you are transferring an existing plan with another provider to F&C, or if you are applying for a new plan in more top-ups at any time from 250 per Trust.
F&C Childrens lnvestment Plan CIP New Customers This is a flexible way to save for a child in our range of Call: 0800 136 420 8.30am 5.30pm, weekdays Investment Trusts.
There are no maximum contributions, Email: info@fandc.
com and the plan can easily be set up under bare trust where Existing Plan Holders the child is noted as the beneficial owner or kept in your Call: 0345 600 3030 9.00am 5.00pm, weekdays name if you wish to retain control over the investment.
com Investments can be made from a 250 lump sum or 25 a By post: F&C Plan Administration Centre month per Trust.
You can also make additional lump sum PO Box 11114 Chelmsford top-ups at any time from 100 per Trust.
CM99 2DG The CTF and JISA accounts are opened in the childs name and they have You can also invest in the trust through online dealing platforms access to the money at age 18.
Calls may be recorded or monitored for for private investors that offer share dealing and ISAs.
Companies training and quality purposes.
include: Alliance Trust Savings, Barclays Stockbrokers, Halifax, Hargreaves Lansdown, HSBC, Interactive Investor, LLoyds Bank, Selftrade, TD Direct Investing, The Share Centre The value of investments can go down as well as up and you may not get back your original investment.
Tax benefits depend on your individual circumstances and tax allowances and rules may change.
Please read our Key Features Document before you invest and this can be found on our website fandc.
F&C cannot give advice on the suitability of investing in our investment trust or savings plans.
If you have any doubt as to the suitability of an investment, please contact a professional financial adviser.
F&C Management Limited F&C Investments and the F&C Investments logo are trademarks of F&C Management Limited.
Issued and approved by F&C Management Limited which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FRN: 119230 and is a member of the F&C Group of which the ultimate parent company is the Bank of Montreal.
Registered Office: Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A 2NY.
Registered in England & Wales No 517895.
L56 02 17 CM11982 Report and Accounts 2017 | 75 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 76 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
