NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS The amount of deferred tax provided is based on d Functional and Presentation currency i Operating Lease Contracts n Trade and Other Payables 1.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES the expected manner of realisation or settlement the Group as Lessor of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.
Items included in the financial statements of the Rental income received in advance represents the In determining the expected manner of realisation A summary of the principal Group are measured using the currency of the primary pro-rated rental income invoiced before the year The Group has entered into commercial property of an asset the directors consider that the Group economic environment in which the Company and end that relates to the period post the year end.
VAT leases on its investment property portfolio.
The will recover the value of investment property accounting policies, all of which have its subsidiaries operate the functional currency payable is the difference between output and input Group has determined, based on an evaluation through sale.
Deferred income tax relating to which is pounds sterling.
The financial statements VAT at the year end.
Other payables are accounted for of the terms and conditions of the arrangements items recognised directly in equity is recognised been applied consistently throughout are also presented in Pounds Sterling.
All figures in on an accruals basis and include amounts which are that it retains all the significant risks and rewards in equity and not in profit or loss.
the financial statements are rounded to the nearest due for settlement by the Group as at the year end and of ownership of these properties and so accounts the year, is set out below.
are generally carried at the original invoice amount.
for leases as operating leases.
Initial direct costs h Investment Properties An estimate is made for any services incurred at the incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating year end but for which no invoice has been received.
e Revenue Recognition lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased Investment properties are initially recognised at asset and recognised as an expense on a straightcost, being the fair value of consideration given, line basis over the lease term.
o Reserves Rental income, excluding VAT, arising from including transaction costs associated with the operating leases including those containing stepped investment property.
Any subsequent capital j Share Issue Expenses and fixed rent increases is accounted for in the Share Capital expenditure incurred in improving investment Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income properties is capitalised in the period during This represents the proceeds from issuing ordinary on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Lease Incremental external costs directly attributable to which the expenditure is incurred and included shares.
premiums paid and rent free periods granted, are the issue of shares that would otherwise have been within the book cost of the property.
recognised as assets and are amortised over the avoided are written off to capital reserves.
Special Distributable Reserve a Basis of Accounting b Significant accounting judgements, non-cancellable lease term.
After initial recognition, investment properties are The special reserve is a distributable reserve to be estimates and assumptions k Segmental Reporting measured at fair value, with the movement in fair used for all purposes permitted under Guernsey Interest income is accounted on an accruals basis value recognised in the Consolidated Statement The consolidated accounts have been prepared in law, including the buyback of shares and the and included in operating profit.
of Comprehensive Income and transferred to the accordance with International Financial Reporting The preparation of the Groups financial statements payment of dividends.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Group Capital Reserve.
Fair value is based on the external Standards issued by the International Accounting requires management to make judgements, estimates is engaged in a single segment of business being f Expenses valuation provided by CBRE Limited, chartered Standards Board the IASB, interpretations issued and assumptions that affect the amounts recognised Capital Reserve property investment in the United Kingdom.
The surveyors, at the Balance Sheet date.
The assessed by the IFRS Interpretations Committee that remain in the financial statements.
However, uncertainty Directors are of the opinion that the four property The following are accounted for in this reserve: fair value is reduced by the carrying amount of any in effect, and to the extent that they have been about these judgements, assumptions and estimates Expenses are accounted for on an accruals sectors analysed throughout the financial statements accrued income resulting from the spreading of adopted by the European Union, applicable legal could result in outcomes that could require a material basis.
The Groups investment management and constitute this single segment, and are not separate gains and losses on the disposal of investment lease incentives and or minimum lease payments.
and regulatory requirements of Guernsey law and adjustment to the carrying amount of the asset or administration fees, finance costs and all other operating segments as defined by IFRS 8 Operating properties: the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
liability affected in the future.
In applying the Groups expenses are charged through the Consolidated Segments.
On derecognition, gains and losses on disposals The audited Consolidated Financial Statements of increases and decreases in the fair value of accounting policies, there were no critical accounting Statement of Comprehensive Income.
Service of investment properties are recognised in the the Group have been prepared under the historical judgements.
investment properties held at the year end.
charge costs, to the extent they are not recoverable l Cash and Cash Equivalents Statement of Comprehensive Income and cost convention as modified by the measurement from tenants, are accounted for on an accruals basis transferred to the Capital Reserve.
of investment property and derivative financial Revenue Reserve Key estimation uncertainties and included in operating profit.
The consolidated financial Cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash Any surplus arising from the net profit on ordinary Fair value of investment properties: Investment Recognition and derecognition occurs when the statements are presented in pound sterling.
in hand, demand deposits, and other short-term activities after taxation and payment of dividends is property is stated at fair value as at the balance g Taxation significant risks and rewards of ownership of the highly liquid investments readily convertible within taken to this reserve, with any deficit charged to the sheet date as set out in note 1 h and note 9 to properties have transferred between a willing buyer New and amended standards and interpretations three months or less to known amounts of cash and special distributable reserve.
Current income tax assets and liabilities are measured subject to insignificant risk of changes in value.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with at the amount expected to be recovered from or Interest Rate Swap Reserve those of the previous financial year.
There have The determination of the fair value of investment Investment property is transferred to current assets paid to taxation authorities.
The tax rates and tax been other new and amended standards issued or m Trade and Other Receivables properties requires the use of estimates such as Any surplus deficit arising from the marked to market held for sale when it is expected that the carrying laws used to compute the amount are those that are have come into effect in the European Union from future cash flows from the assets.
The estimate valuation of the swap instrument is credited amount will be recovered principally through sale enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting 1 January 2017 but either these were not applicable of future cash flows includes consideration of the charged to this account.
rather than from continuing use.
For this to be the Trade receivables, which are generally due for date.
Current income tax relating to items recognised or did not have a material impact on the annual repair and condition of the property, lease terms, case, the property must be available for immediate settlement at the relevant quarter end are recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity and not consolidated financial statements of the Group future lease events, as well as other relevant factors Treasury Share Reserve sale in its present condition, subject only to terms and carried at the original invoice amount less in profit or loss.
Positions taken in tax returns and hence not discussed and are detailed below: for the particular asset.
that are usual and customary for sales of such This represents the cost of shares bought back by an allowance for any uncollectable amounts.
An with respect to situations in which applicable property and its sale must be highly probable.
estimate for doubtful debts is made when collection the Company and held in Treasury.
The balance tax regulations are subject to interpretation are Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20102012 Cycle These estimates are based on local market conditions of the full amount is no longer probable, debts are within this reserve is currently nil.
periodically evaluated and provisions established existing at the balance sheet date.
The Group has entered into forward funding over 90 days old or relate to tenants in administration.
Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20112013 Cycle where appropriate.
agreements with third party developers in respect Bad debts are written off when identified.
p Interest-bearing borrowings Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20142016 Cycle c Basis of Consolidation of certain properties.
Under these agreements Deferred income tax is provided using the the Group will make payments to the developer Annual Improvements to IFRSs 20152017 Cycle liability method on all temporary differences at All bank loans and borrowings are initially recognised as construction progresses.
The value of these the reporting date between the tax bases of assets The consolidated accounts comprise the accounts at cost, being the fair value of the consideration payments is assessed and certified by an expert.
and liabilities and their carrying amounts for of the Company and its subsidiaries drawn up to received net of arrangement costs associated with financial reporting purposes.
Deferred income tax 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are consolidated the borrowing.
After initial recognition, all interest Investment properties are recognised for accounting assets are recognised only to the extent that it is from the date on which control is transferred to the bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently purposes upon completion of contract.
Properties probable that taxable profit will be available against Group and cease to be consolidated from the date measured at amortised cost.
Amortised cost purchased under forward funding contracts are which deductible temporary differences, carried on which control is transferred out of the Group.
is calculated by taking into account any loan recognised at certified value to date.
forward tax credits or tax losses can be utilised.
The Jersey Property Unit Trusts JPUTS are all arrangement costs and any discount or premium controlled via voting rights and hence those entities on settlement.
64 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
