SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Alternative Investment Fund Managers SLI CF does not employ any direct staff.
Dividends Share Price Key Information Document KID AIFM Directive Leverage The board of the AIFM are employees of Standard Life Investments Limited SLI and are subject to It is the Directors intention in line with the The Companys Ordinary Shares are listed on the Investors should be aware that the PRIIPs Regulation The Companys maximum and average actual In accordance with the AIFM Directive, information the SLI and Standard Life Group policies as regulated Companys investment objective to pay an attractive London Stock Exchange.
Prices are given daily in requires the AIFM, as PRIIP manufacturer, to prepare in relation to the Companys leverage and the leverage levels at 31 December 2017 are shown below: by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
SLI level of dividend income to shareholders on a the Financial Times under Investment Companies a KID in respect of the Company.
This KID must be remuneration of the Companys AIFM, Standard Life is subject to the FCAs Prudential Sourcebook quarterly basis.
The Directors intend to set the Conventional Property ICs.
made available by the Investment Manager to retail Investments Corporate Funds Limited, is required for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Leverage level of dividend after taking into account the longinvestors prior to them making any investment to be made available to investors.
Gross Method Commitment Method Firms BIPRU Remuneration Requirements under exposure term income return of the Property Portfolio, the decision and is available on the Companys website.
Change of Address SYSC 19C on a proportionate basis.
The board of diversity and covenant strength of the tenants and Standard Life Corporate Funds Ltd is responsible for SLICF has responsibility for the risk management Maximum Limit 250% 250% the length of the leases of the Properties.
the information contained in the KID and investors arrangements as they relate to the AIFM fund range.
Communications with shareholders are mailed should note that the procedures for calculating the to the address held on the share register.
In the Dividends on the Ordinary Shares are expected to risks, costs and potential returns are prescribed by The investment processes are subject to the Actual 134% 122% event of a change of address or other amendment be paid in equal instalments quarterly in respect EU rules.
The figures in the KID may not reflect the governance structure of SLI and the board of this should be notified to Computershare Investor of each financial year in May, August, November expected returns for the Company and anticipated SLI CF monitors the effectiveness in meeting Services Guernsey Limited, c o Queensway House, and February.
All dividends will be paid as interim performance returns cannot be guaranteed.
The strict criteria at an AIF level.
The board of SLI CF Hilgrove Street, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES under the dividends.
cost, performance and risk calculations included in For the purposes of the AIFM Directive, leverage discharges its duties via regular reporting and signature of the registered holder.
the Key Information Document KID follow the is any method which increases the Companys review at board meetings and via allocation of Shareholders who wish to have dividends paid methodology prescribed by EU rules.
We would also exposure, including the borrowing of cash and the executive responsibilities, in relation to SLI CF, Shareholder Enquiries directly into a bank account rather than by cheque draw your attention to the other information on the use of derivatives.
It is expressed as a percentage within the SLI management team.
to their registered address can complete a mandate website including shareholder presentations and of the Companys exposure to its net asset value form for the purpose.
Mandates may be obtained factsheets.
and is calculated on both a gross and commitment Contact Northern Trust International Fund The AIFM has identified forty-one 2016: ten from Computershare Investor Services Guernsey method.
Under the gross method, exposure represents individuals who are AIFM Remuneration Code Staff Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Limited, c o Queensway House, Hilgrove Street, An investment in the Company may go down as the sum of the Companys positions without taking AIFM Code Staff, i. e. individuals whose activities Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, St. Helier, Jersey JE1 1ES on request.
Where dividends well as up and past performance is not an indicator of account of any hedging or netting arrangements.
have a material impact on the risk profile of the Guernsey GY1 3QL.
Additional information are paid directly to shareholders bank accounts, future performance.
An investment in the Company Under the commitment method, exposure is AIFM or the AIFs that it manages.
The aggregate regarding the Company may also be found at its dividend vouchers are sent directly to shareholders is suitable only for investors who are capable of calculated after certain hedging and netting website address which is: www.
co. uk remuneration for these forty-one 2016: ten registered addresses.
evaluating the merits and risks of such an investment positions are offset against each other.
individuals apportioned for the AIFM duties they and who have sufficient resources to be able to bear have performed, for the year 2017 is 1,009,310 any losses which may arise there-from which may The leverage limits are set by the AIFM and approved 2016: 231,732.
Of this 211,470 2016: 52,852 be equal to the total amount invested.
The AIFM is also required to comply relates to fixed remuneration and 797,840 2016: with the gearing parameters set by the Board in 178,880 relates to variable remuneration.
AIFM Code Staff are monitored in respect of their Remuneration performance in line with the SLI Remuneration Policy which is designed to meet the regulatory FINANCIAL CALENDAR 2018 19 requirements of BIPRU and the AIFM Directive.
The Companys AIFM, Standard Life Investments The Remuneration Committees of SLI and Standard Corporate Funds Limited SLI CF, is subject to the Life plc review and approve remuneration for AIFM Remuneration requirements of the AIFM Directive Code Staff.
More information on the remuneration on a proportionate basis in respect of its activities as policies of Standard Life plc are disclosed on the AIFM for a range of Alternative Investment Funds following web page: AIFs.
Total assets under management of SLI CF Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar were 14.17 billion at 31 December 2017, of which www.
com dotcom our-company 8.79 billion of assets were AIFs subject to the AIFM governance .
The NAV of the Company was 1.21 billion as at 31 December 2017.
27 April 2018 May 2018 August 2018 November 2018 February 2019 Announcement of Payment of 2018 Payment of 2018 Payment of 2018 third Payment of 2018 annual results first interim second interim interim dividend fourth interim dividend dividend dividend 20 June 2018 August 2018 Annual General Posting of Meeting Interim Report 96 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 97 CORPORATE INFORMATION Standard Life Investments Limited is registered in Scotland SC123321 at 1 George Street, Edinburgh, EH2 2LL.
Standard Life Investments Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Calls may be monitored and or recorded to protect both you and us and help with our training.
com 2017 Standard Life Standard Life Investments Limited 1 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 2LL 0131 245 3151 www.
co. uk Directors all non-executive Investment Manager and Alternative Registrar Investment Fund Manager Andrew Wilson Computershare Investor Services Chairman Standard Life Investments Guernsey Limited Corporate Funds Limited 1st floor Ken McCullagh 1 George Street Tudor House Chairman of Audit Committee Edinburgh Le Bordage and Senior Independent Director EH2 2LL St Peter Port Guernsey Michael Ayre Channel Islands Property Valuer Chairman of the Property GY1 1DB CBRE Limited Valuation Committee St Martins Court Principal Bankers and Lenders Sandra Platts 10 Paternoster Row Barclays Bank plc London Chairman of the Management Quay 2 EC4M 7HP Engagement Committee 139 Fountainbridge Edinburgh John Robertson Independent Auditors EH3 9QG Chairman of the Risk Committee Deloitte LLP retired 31 March 2018 PO Box 137 Barings previously Cornerstone Regency Court Real Estate Advisors Europe LLP Margaret Littlejohns Glategny Esplanade Southwest House Chairman of the Risk Committee St Peter Port 11a Regent Street from 1 April 2018 Guernsey London appointed 1 January 2018 Channel Islands SW1Y 4LR GY1 3HW Robert Fowlds Non-Executive Director Corporate P. R. Advisor Guernsey Legal Advisors appointed 1 April 2018 FTI Consulting Limited Mourant Ozannes 200 Aldersgate Royal Chambers Aldersgate Street St Julians Avenue Registered Office London St Peter Port PO Box 255 EC1A 4HD Guernsey Trafalgar Court Channel Islands Les Banques Corporate Broker GY1 4HP St Peter Port JP Morgan Cazenove Guernsey UK Legal Advisors and Sponsor 25 Bank Street Channel Islands Canary Wharf Dickson Minto W. S. GY1 3QL London 16 Charlotte Square E14 5JP Edinburgh Registered Number EH2 4DF 45387 Depositary Maples Teesdale LLP Citibank International PLC Administrator and Secretary 30 King Street Citigroup Centre Northern Trust International Fund London Canada Square Administration Services EC2V 8EE Canary Wharf Guernsey Limited London PO Box 255 E14 5LB Trafalgar Court Les Banques St Peter Port Guernsey Channel Islands GY1 3QL 98 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 99 GLOSSARY AND ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES AIC Association of Investment Companies.
The trade body representing closed-ended investment companies.
IPD benchmark The MSCI IPD Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Benchmark Annual rental income Cash rents passing at the Balance Sheet date.
Lease incentive A payment used to encourage a tenant to take on a new Lease, for example by a landlord paying a tenant a sum of money to contribute to the cost of a tenants fit-out of a property or by allowing a rent free period.
Average debt maturity The weighted average amount of time until the maturity of the Groups debt facilities.
NAV Net Asset Value is the equity attributable to shareholders calculated under IFRS.
Break option A break option alternatively called a break clause or option to determine is a clause in a lease which provides the landlord or tenant with a right to terminate the lease before its contractual expiry date, if certain criteria are met.
NAV total return The return to shareholders, expressed as a percentage of opening NAV, calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in NAV.
Dividends are assumed to have been reinvested in the quarter they are Contracted rent The contracted gross rent receivable which becomes payable after all the occupier incentives in the letting have expired.
Covenant strength This refers to the quality of a tenants financial status and its ability to perform the covenants in a Lease.
Net gearing Calculated as net borrowings gross borrowings less cash excluding swap valuation divided by total assets less current liabilities excluding cash, borrowings and swaps.
SWAP valuations at fair value are not considered relevant in gearing calculations.
Dividend A sum of money paid regularly by the company to its shareholders.
The Company currently pays dividends to shareholders quarterly.
2017 2016 000 000 Dividend cover The ratio of the company's net profit after tax excluding capital items to the dividends paid.
Gross borrowings 250,000 250,000 2017 2016 Less cash 72,443 104,893 000 000 177,557 145,107 Total comprehensive income for the year 133,225 41,273 Total assets 1,479,670 1,398,067 Add back: Less cash 72,443 104,893 Gains Losses on investment properties 90,416 5,944 Less current liabilities 23,538 26,481 Gain Loss arising on effective portion of interest rate swap 1,664 3,913 1,383,689 1,266,693 Deferred tax movement 3,244 6,515 Net gearing 12.8% 11.4% Profit for dividend cover 44,389 44,615 Annual dividend 47,820 47,820 Dividend cover 93% 93% Net initial yield NIY The net initial yield of a property is the initial net income at the date of purchase, expressed as a percentage of the gross purchase price including the costs of purchase.
Ongoing charges A measure, expressed as a percentage of NAV, of the regular, recurring costs of running an investment company, calculated Dividend yield Annual dividend expressed as a percentage of share price.
in line with AIC ongoing charge methodology.
Earnings per share EPS Profit for the period attributable to shareholders divided by the average number of shares in issue during the period.
Over-rented Space where the passing rent is above the ERV.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association.
The industry body representing listed companies in the real estate sector.
Passing rent The rent payable at a particular point in time.
EPRA Earnings per share Profit for the period, as defined within EPRA Best Practices Recommendation Guidelines November 2016, divided by Portfolio fair value The market value of the company's property portfolio, which is based on the external valuation provided by CBRE Limited.
the average number of shares in issue during the period.
Portfolio total return Combining the Portfolio Capital Return the change in property value after taking account of property sales, purchases ERV The estimated rental value of a property, provided by the property valuers.
and capital expenditure in the period and Portfolio Income Return net property income after deducting direct property expenditure, assuming portfolio income is re-invested.
Fair value Fair value is defined by IFRS 13 as 'the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date'.
Portfolio yield Passing rent as a percentage of gross property value.
Fair value movement Fair value movement is the accounting adjustment to change the book value of an asset or liability to its market value, Premium Discount to NAV The difference between the share price and NAV per share, expressed as a percentage of NAV.
Premium representing a and subsequent changes in market value.
higher share price compared to NAV per share, discount the opposite.
Gross gearing Calculated as gross borrowings excluding swap valuation divided by total assets less current liabilities Rack-rented Space where the passing rent is the same as the ERV.
REIT A Real Estate Investment Trust REIT is a single company REIT or a group REIT that owns and manages property on behalf 2017 2016 of shareholders.
In the UK, a company or group of companies can apply for UK-REIT status, which exempts the company 000 000 from corporation tax on profits and gains from their UK qualifying property rental businesses.
Gross borrowings 250,000 250,000 Rent free A period within a lease usually from the lease start date on new leases where the tenant has been granted that they do not have to pay any rent.
Total assets 1,479,670 1,398,067 Rent review A rent review is a periodic review usually five yearly of rent during the term of a lease.
The vast majority of rent review Less current liabilities 23,538 26,481 clauses require the assessment of the open market, or rack rental value, at the review date, in accordance with specified 1,456,132 1,371,586 terms, but some are geared to other factors, such as the movement an Index.
Gross gearing 17.2% 18.2% Reversionary yield Estimated rental value as a percentage of the gross property value.
RICS The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, the global professional body promoting and enforcing the highest international standards in the valuation, management and development of land, real estate, construction and infrastructure.
Group UK Commercial Property Trust and its subsidiaries.
Share price The value of each of the company's shares at a point in time as quoted on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Share price total return The return to shareholders, expressed as a percentage of opening share price, calculated on a per share basis by adding dividends paid in the period to the increase or decrease in share price.
Dividends are assumed to have been reinvested in Index linked The practice of linking the review of a tenant's payments under a lease to a published index, most commonly the Retail Price the quarter they are paid, excluding transaction costs.
Index RPI but also the Consumer Price Index CPI.
Void rate vacancy rate The quantum of rent relating to properties which are unlet and generating no rental income.
Stated as a percentage of IPD Investment Property Databank.
An independent organisation supplying an expansive range of regional and global indexes, Estimated Rental Value.
research, performance modelling, data metrics and risk analytics across direct property, listed and unlisted vehicles, joint ventures, separate accounts and debt.
CO. UK Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk FOCUSSING OUR POSITION TO DELIVER IN 2018
