NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Continued Sensitivity analysis The table below presents the sensitivity of the valuation to changes in the most significant assumptions underlying the valuation of investment property.
Sector Assumption Movement Effect on valuation The property portfolios fair value as at 31 December 2017 has The following disclosure is provided in relation to the adoption of 50 basis points Decrease 46.7m been prepared adopting the following assumptions: IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
All properties are deemed Level Industrial Capitalisation rate - 50 basis points Increase 27.2m 3 for the purposes of fair value measurement and the current use That, where let, the Estimated Net Annual Rent after void and rent of each property is considered the highest and best use.
There have 50 basis points Decrease 26.8m Capitalisation rate Office free period assumptions for each property, or part of a property, been no transfers from Level 3 in the year.
The fair value of completed - 50 basis points Increase 33.2m reflects the terms of the leases as at the date of valuation.
If the investment property is determined using a yield methodology.
50 basis points Decrease 45.3m property, or parts thereof, are vacant at the date of valuation, the Under this method, a propertys fair value is estimated using explicit Retail Capitalisation rate - 50 basis points Increase 55.4m rental value reflects the rent the Property Valuer considers would assumptions regarding the benefits and liabilities of ownership over be obtainable on an open market letting as at the date of valuation.
the assets life including an exit or terminal value.
As an accepted 50 basis points Decrease 11.3m Capitalisation rate method within the income approach to valuation, this method Leisure - 50 basis points Increase 13.8m The Property Valuer has assumed that, where let, all rent reviews are involves the projection of a series of cash flows on a real property to be assessed by reference to the estimated rental value calculated in interest.
To this projected cash flow series, an appropriate, market- 50 basis points Decrease 3.0m accordance with the terms of the lease.
Also there is the assumption Other Capitalisation rate derived discount rate capitalisation rate is applied to establish the - 50 basis points Increase 3.6m that all tenants will meet their obligations under their leases and are present value of the cash inflows associated with the real property.
responsible for insurance, payment of business rates, and all repairs, The duration of the cash flow and the specific timing of inflows whether directly or by means of a service charge.
and outflows are determined by events such as rent reviews, lease renewal and related lease up periods, re-letting, redevelopment, The Property Valuer has not made any adjustments to reflect Investment property valuation process 10.
The appropriate duration is typically driven by any liability to taxation that may arise on disposal, nor any costs market behaviour that is a characteristic of the class of property.
associated with disposals incurred by the owner.
The Company owns 100 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital The valuations of investment properties are performed quarterly In the case of investment properties, periodic cash flow is typically of UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited UKCFH, The Property Valuer assumes an initial yield in the region of 3 to 7 estimated as gross income less vacancy, non-recoverable expenses, on the basis of valuation reports prepared by independent and a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is per cent, based on market evidence.
For the majority of properties, collection losses, lease incentives, maintenance cost, agent and qualified valuers and reviewed by the Property Valuation Committee that of a holding company.
the Property Valuer assumes a reversionary yield in the region of of the Company.
commission costs and other operating and management expenses.
The series of periodic net cash inflows, along with an estimate of The Company owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of These reports are based on both: the terminal value anticipated at the end of the projection period, The Property Valuer takes account of deleterious materials included UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH, is then discounted.
Set out below are the valuation techniques used in the construction of the investment properties in arriving at its a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is for each property sector plus a description and quantification of the Information provided by the Investment Manager such as current estimate of Fair Value when the Investment Manager advises of that of a holding company.
UKCPEH Limited owns 100 per cent of rents, terms and conditions of lease agreements, service charges key unobservable inputs relating to each sector.
There has been no the presence of such materials.
the issued share capital of UK Commercial Property Estates Limited, change in valuation technique in the year.
This information is derived from the a company incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is The majority of the leases are on a full repairing basis and as such Investment Managers financial and property management that of an investment and property company.
UKCPEH also owns the Group is not liable for costs in respect of repairs or maintenance systems and is subject to the Investment Managers overall 100% of Brixton Radlett Property Limited, a UK company, whose to its investment properties.
principal business is that of an investment and property company.
Assumptions and valuation models used by the valuers UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the assumptions are typically market related, such as yields.
These Fair Value at Range are based on their professional judgment and market observation.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited UKCPH, a company Sector Valuation techniques Unobservable inputs 31 December 2017 m weighted average incorporated in Guernsey whose principal business is that of an The information provided to the valuers and the assumptions investment and property company.
Annual rent per sq ft 019 8 Industrial 485.2 Yield methodology and valuation models used by the valuers are reviewed by Capitalisation rate 4.5%7.1% 5.0% UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of UK the Investment Manager.
This includes a review of fair value movements over the period.
Commercial Property GP Limited, GP, a company incorporated Annual rent per sq ft 1556 34 263.6 Yield methodology Office in Guernsey whose principal business is that of an investment and Capitalisation rate 3.4%7.3% 5.2% Asset held for sale property company.
Annual rent per sq ft 2306 64 Retail 494.3 Yield methodology The assets shown on the Balance Sheet as held for sale at the year Capitalisation rate 3.5%11.2% 5.4% UKCPT Limited Partnership, GLP, is a Guernsey limited end are the three Shrewsbury shopping centres, Charles Darwin, partnership, and it holds a portfolio of properties.
UKCPH and GP, Pride Hill and Riverside.
The assets are shown at fair value in the Annual rent per sq ft 1335 25 129.2 Yield methodology Leisure have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in the Capitalisation rate 5.1%6 % 5.4% Balance Sheet as a held for sale asset and continue to be valued by GLP.
The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner CBRE Limited using the method described in this note.
Annual rent per sq ft 00 0 for sale assets are included in the investment property table shown Other 8.2 Yield methodology Capitalisation rate 5.8%5.8% 5.8% in this note.
Any unrealised gain and loss on this asset is shown in UKCFH owns 100 per cent of the issued share capital of UK the investment property table and in the consolidated statement of Commercial Property Nominee Limited, a company incorporated in comprehensive income as gains losses on investment properties.
Guernsey whose principal business is that of a nominee company.
The assets were sold by the Group on 24 January 2018 for approximately 51m.
In addition the Group controls seven Jersey Property Unit Trusts JPUTs namely Junction 27 Retail Unit Trust, Charles Darwin Retail Unit Trust sold January 2018, St Georges Leicester Unit Trust, Kew Retail Park Unit Trust, Pride Hill Retail Unit Trust sold January 2018, Riverside Mall Retail Unit Trust sold January 2018 and Rotunda Kingston Property Unit Trust.
The principal business of the Unit Trusts is that of investment in property.
72 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
