NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS Continued Year ended Year ended 2.
RENTAL INCOME 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 000 000 On maturity, bank loans are recognised at par, Where a portion of an ineffective hedge qualifies The standard will be effective for annual periods which is equivalent to amortised cost.
Bank loans against the Groups criteria to be classified as beginning on or after 1 January 2018, and is redeemed before maturity are recognised at an effective hedge that portion of the derivative required to be applied retrospectively with some Rental income 69,826 68,573 amortised cost with any charges associated with instrument shall be accounted for as a separate exemptions.
The Group does not anticipate that early redemptions being taken to the Statement and effective hedge instrument and treated as this standard will have any material impact on the of Comprehensive Income.
Groups financial statements as presented for the current year.
Included within rental income is amortisation of lease premiums Gains or losses arising on any derivative instrument q Derivative financial instruments or portion of a derivative instrument which is deemed and rent free periods granted.
IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts to be ineffective will be recognised in profit or loss.
The Group uses derivative financial instruments Gains and losses, regardless of whether related to to hedge its risk associated with interest rate IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers effective or ineffective hedges, are taken to a reserve fluctuations.
effective 1 January 2018, and endorsed by the EU created specifically for that purpose described in the 31 October 2016 specifies how and when an entity balance sheet as the Interest Rate Swap Reserve.
Derivative instruments are initially recognised should recognise revenue from contracts and in the Balance Sheet at their fair value split enhances the nature of revenue disclosures.
r New standards, amendments and between current and non-current.
Fair value interpretation not yet effective Year ended Year ended 3.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT FEES is determined by reference to market values The Group notes lease contracts within the scope 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 for similar instruments.
Transaction costs are of IAS 17 are excluded from the scope of IFRS 15.
Rental income derived from operating leases is There are a number of new standards, amendments therefore out with the scope of IFRS 15.
The group and interpretations that have been issued but are Gains or losses arising on the fair value of cash flow therefore does not anticipate IFRS 15 having a not yet effective for this accounting year and have hedges in the form of derivative instruments are material impact on the Groups financial statement not been adopted early.
Those standards which may Investment management fee 9,215 8,870 taken directly to Other Comprehensive Income.
as presented for the current year.
affect the Group are listed below.
Such gains and losses are taken to a reserve created specifically for that purpose, described as the The group notes under specific circumstances, IFRS 9 Financial Instruments Interest Rate Swap Reserve in the Balance Sheet.
certain elements of contracts the group may enter for example, rental guarantees provided when selling The Groups Investment Manager throughout the year was Standard in relation to this fee in the year was 100,000 2016: 100,000.
In July 2014, the IASB published the final version of On termination the unrealised gains or losses a property potentially fall within the scope of IFRS 15.
Life Investments Corporate Funds Limited, who received an Both fees are payable quarterly in arrears.
The Investment IFRS 9 Financial Instruments which replaces the arising from cash flow hedges in the form of The group does not have any such contracts in place aggregate annual fee from the Group at an annual rate of 0.65 per Management agreement is terminable by either of the parties existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: derivative instruments, initially recognised in at 31 December 2017. cent of the Total Assets.
The Investment Manager is also entitled to to it on 12 months notice.
The IFRS 9 Other Comprehensive Income, are transferred an administration fee of 100,000 per annum.
The total paid requirements represent a change from the existing to profit or loss.
The standard permits a modified retrospective requirements in IAS 39 in respect of financial assets.
Financial statements will be prepared The Group considers its interest rate swap qualifies for the year of adoption from 1 January 2018 by The standard contains two primary measurement for hedge accounting when the following criteria recognising a cumulative catch-up adjustment to categories for financial assets: amortised cost and are satisfied: opening retained earnings.
Year ended Year ended fair value.
A financial asset would be measured at 4.
EXPENSES 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 amortised cost if it is held within a business model The instrument must be related to an asset The group has not implemented the standard in 000 000 whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect or liability: advance of the effective date and it does not intend contractual cash flows, and the assets contractual to do so.
It must change the character of the interest terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that rate by converting a variable rate to a fixed rate are solely payments of principal and interest on Direct Property Expenses 4,444 3,716 IFRS 16 Leases or vice versa: the principal outstanding.
All other financial assets would be measured at fair value.
It must match the principal amounts and maturity IFRS 16 Leases effective 1 January 2019 sets out date of the hedged item: and OTHER EXPENSES the principle for the recognition, measurement, The standard eliminates the existing IAS 39 presentation and disclosure of leases for both the As a cash flow hedge the forecast transaction categories of held to-maturity, available-for-sale Professional fees including valuation fees 2,744 2,547 incurring interest payable on the bank loan that Lessee and Lessor.
is subject to the hedge must be highly probable Movement in bad debt provision 130 75 and must present an exposure to variations in The impact of this standard has not yet been For financial liabilities, IFRS 9 largely carries Directors fees 222 215 cash flows that could ultimately affect the profit assessed by the Group in full, but the Group is aware forward without substantive amendment the lessor accounting remains substantially unchanged or loss.
The effectiveness of the hedge must be guidance on classification and measurement from Administration fee 100 100 capable of reliable measurement and must be and any impact is expected to be insignificant.
The main change is that, in cases where impact assessment will however be concluded in assessed as highly effective on an ongoing basis the fair value option is taken for financial liabilities, Administration and company secretarial fees 85 85 throughout the financial reporting periods for due course.
the part of a fair value change due to an entitys which the hedge was designated.
own credit is recorded in other comprehensive Regulatory fees 212 277 income rather than in profit or loss.
Annual Improvements to IFRS If a derivative instrument does not satisfy the Auditors remuneration for: Groups criteria to qualify for hedge accounting that The standard introduces new requirements for instrument will be deemed as an ineffective hedge.
In addition to the above, Annual Improvements Statutory audit 68 63 hedge accounting that align hedge accounting to IFRS 20152017 Cycle effective 1 January 2019 more closely with risk management and Non audit services 4 Should any portion of an ineffective hedge be have not been adopted early.
establishes a more principles-based approach directly related to an underlying asset or liability, to hedge accounting.
The standard also adds 3,565 3,362 that portion of the derivative instrument should new requirements to address the impairment be assessed against the Groups effective hedge of financial assets and means that a loss event criteria to establish if that portion qualifies to be will no longer need to occur before an impairment recognised as an effective hedge.
66 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
