NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Notice is hereby given that the eleventh Annual General Meeting of UK Commercial Property Trust Limited will be convened at the offices of Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited, Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands, GY1 3QL on 20 June 2018 at 10.00 a. m. for the following purposes.
b shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities up to an Ordinary Resolutions Notes aggregate nominal value of 32,485,312 being approximately 10 per cent of the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as 1.
A member who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is including treasury shares, as at 26 April 2018.
Ordinary Resolutions: entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend, speak and vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
That the Company, be authorised in accordance with section 315 of 1.
To approve and adopt the Report of the Directors and auditor and The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, the Law to make the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017.
More than one proxy may be appointed provided each proxy is market acquisitions within the meaning of section 316 I of the law appointed to exercise the rights attached to different shares held of its own ordinary shares of 25p each shares either for retention 2.
To receive and adopt the Directors Remuneration Report for the by him or her.
as treasury shares for future resale of transfer or cancellation, year to 31 December 2017. provided that: 3.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use at the Meeting.
To re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor to the Company until the should be completed and sent, together with the power of attorney a the maximum number of shares hereby authorised to be acquired conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
or other authority if any under which it is signed, or a notarially shall be equal to 14.99 per cent of the Companys issued share capital certified copy of such power or authority, so as to reach Computershare on the date on which this resolution is passed: 4.
To authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
Investor Services Jersey Limited, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY, not later than 10.00 am on 18 June 2018. b the minimum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for a 5.
To re-elect Mr Ayre as a Director of the Company.
share is 25p, being the nominal value per share: 4.
Completing and returning a form of proxy will not prevent a member 6.
To re-elect Mr McCullagh as a Director of the Company.
from attending in person at the Meeting.
If you have appointed a proxy c the maximum price ex clusive of expenses which may be paid for and attend the meeting in person your proxy appointment will remain a share shall not be more than the higher of i an amount equal to 7.
To re-elect Mrs Platts as a Director of the Company.
valid and you may not vote at the meeting unless you have provided 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for a share a hard copy notice to revoke the proxy to Computershare Investor 8.
To re-elect Mr Wilson as a Director of the Company.
taken from the London Stock Exchanges Daily Official List for the Services PLC, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 6ZY no less five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share than 48 hours excluding any part of a day that is not a working day 9.
To elect Ms Littlejohns as a Director of the Company.
is purchased and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the prior to the commencement of the meeting as set out above.
highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange: 10.
To elect Mr Fowlds as a Director of the Company.
To have the right to attend and vote at the Meeting and also for the purposes of calculating how many votes a member may cast on a poll d the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of a member must first have his or her name entered on the register of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2019 or, Special Resolutions members at the close of business on the day which is two days before if earlier, on 20 December 2019, unless such authority is renewed the date of the meeting.
Changes to entries in the register after that prior to such time: and To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions as time shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any member to Special Resolutions: attend and vote at such Meeting.
e the Company may make a contract to purchase Shares under the 11.
That the Directors of the Company be and they are hereby generally 6.
The Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which empowered, to allot ordinary shares in the Company or grant rights for fifteen minutes prior to the Annual General Meeting and during will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration of such to subscribe for, or to convert securities into, ordinary shares in the the meeting itself.
authority and may make a purchase of Shares pursuant to any such Company equity securities, for cash including by way of a sale of contract.
ordinary shares held by the Company as treasury shares, as if any pre- 7.
As at 26 April 2018, the latest practicable date prior to publication of emption rights in relation to the issue of shares as set out in the listing this document, the Company had 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares in By order of the Board rules made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the issue with a total of 1,299,412,465 voting rights.
Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended did not apply Guernsey Limited to any such allotment of equity securities, provided that this power: 8.
Any person holding 3 per cent of the total voting rights in the Secretary Company who appoints a person other than the Chairman as his Trafalgar Court a expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the proxy will need to ensure that both he and such third party complies Les Banques Company after the passing of this resolution or on the expiry of 15 with their respective disclosure obligations under the Disclosure and St Peter Port months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier, Transparency Rules.
Guernsey GY1 3QL save that the Company may, before such expiry, make an offer or Date: 26 April 2018 agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of any such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: and 94 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
