PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 92 Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1.
Accounting policies Basis of preparation The Company Financial Statements of PZCussonsPlc Limited have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS101.
The Financial Statements have been prepared under the historical costconvention, as modified by the revaluation of certain derivative financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair valuethrough profit or loss, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
As permitted by Section 408 3 of the Companies Act 2006, the Income Statement of the Parent Company is not presented with these Financial Statements.
The retained profit of the Parent Company is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity.
Details ofdividends paid are included in note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The entity satisfies the criteria of being a qualifying entity as defined in FRS101.
Its Financial Statements are consolidated into theGroup Financial Statements of PZCussonsPlc which are included within this Annual Report.
The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with FRS101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the Financial Statements are disclosed below.
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these Financial Statements, inaccordance with FRS101: Paragraphs 45 b and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, Share based payment details of the number and weighted average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or services received was determined IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, Fair value measurement disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements comparative information requirements in respect of: i paragraph 79 a iv of IAS 1: ii paragraph 73 e of IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment: iii paragraph 118 e of IAS 38, Intangible assets reconciliations between the carrying amount at the beginning and end of the period The following paragraphs of IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements: 10 d statement of cash flows : 16 statement of compliance with all IFRS : 38A requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements : 38B-D additional comparative information : 111 cash flow statement information : and 134-136 capital management disclosures IAS 7, Statement of cash flows Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet effective Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures key management compensation The requirements in IAS 24, Related party disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more members of a group Foreign currencies Assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the date of the Company Balance Sheet.
Exchange gains or losses are recognised in the Income Statement.
The Companys functional currency is Sterling as this is the functional currency of the principal operating environment of the Company.
The Company Financial Statements have been presented in Sterling and have been rounded to m.
