PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements General information PZCussonsPlc is a public limited company which is listed on the London stock exchange and is domiciled and incorporated in the UK under the Companies Act 2006.
The address of the registered office is given on page 104.
These Financial Statements are presented in Pounds Sterling and have been presented in m. Foreign operations are included inaccordance with the policies set out in note 1.
Accounting policies The Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted for use in the European Union EU, including International Accounting Standards IAS and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Standards Interpretations Committee IFRS IC and the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
Further standards may be issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB andstandards currently in issue and endorsed by the EU may be subject to interpretations issued by the IFRS IC.
The preparation of Financial Statements, in conformity with IFRSs, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty can be found on page 58.
The Financial Statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except for the revaluation of certain financial assets and financial liabilities including derivative instruments at fair value through profit or loss.
The Financial Statements have been prepared using consistent accounting policies except as stated below.
a New and amended standards adopted by the Group The following standards have been adopted by the Group for the first time for the financial year beginning on 1 June 2016: Annual improvements 2012-2014 effective 1 January 2016 Amendment to IFRS 11, Joint arrangements on acquisition of an interest in a joint operation, effective 1 January 2016 Amendment to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 38, Intangible assets, on depreciation and amortisation effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 16, Property, plant and equipment and IAS 41, Agriculture on bearer plants effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 27, Separate Financial Statements on equity accounting effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28, Investments in associates and joint ventures onapplying the consolidation exemption effective 1 January 2016 Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements disclosure initiative effective 1 January 2016 The adoption of the new and amended standards above has not had a material impact on the Group Financial Statements.
b Standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards that are not yet effective and have not been earlyadopted by the Group The following new standards and amendments to standards, which have been issued but are not yet effective, and have not beenearly adopted by the Group or Parent Company: IFRS 9, Financial Instruments effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 15, Revenue from contracts with customers effective 1 January 2018 IFRS 16, Leases effective 1 January 2019 The Group is currently assessing the impact these new standards may have on the Group and Parent Company Financial Statements and will provide a further assessment of the potential impacts in future years.
