PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 95 Share based payments The Company operates a Performance Share Plan and an Executive Share Option Scheme for senior executives, all of which involve equity-settled share based payments.
Equity-settled share based payments under the Executive Share Option Scheme are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant date is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards under the Performance Share Plan are measured at the fair value at the date of grant and are expensed over the period to which the performance relates based on the expected outcome of the vesting conditions.
At each Balance Sheet date, the entity revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original estimates, if any, in the Income Statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
Critical accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty Estimates and accounting judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The preparation of Financial Statements under IFRS requires management to make assumptions and estimates about future events.
The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, differ from the actual results.
The assumptions and estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are as follows: Carrying value of investments in subsidiaries Annually the Directors consider whether there are any indicators of impairment that may suggest that the recoverable amount of the Companys investments in subsidiaries is less than their carrying amount.
The assessment of impairment indicators requires management to apply judgement in assessing current and forecast trading performance as well as assessing the impact of principal risks and uncertainties specific to the investments it holds.
Details of the Companys investments are set out in note 4 and in the current year the Directors have concluded that no indicators of impairment existed.
Directors emoluments 2017 2016 m m Aggregate amount of Directors emoluments 3.9 2.9 Emoluments of the highest paid Director 1.6 1.1 For the year ended 31 May 2017 the highest paid Director received Company pension contributions of 0.1m 2016: 0.1m.
This information can be found in note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Additional information on Directors emoluments, including details of gains or losses made on the exercise of share options in the year and the Directors interests in the Group have been included in the Report on Directors Remuneration on page 18.
