PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 72 Financial Statements Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 19.
Financial liabilities and assets, derivative financial instruments and financial risk management a Financial instrument fair value estimation The Group holds a number of financial instruments that are held at fair value within the Financial Statements.
Fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities Financial instruments utilised by the Group during the years ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016, together with information regarding the methods and assumptions used to calculate fair values, can be summarised as follows: Current and non-current investments In accordance with IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement, unlisted investments are held in the Groups Balance Sheet at cost because their fair value cannot be measured reliably due to the lack of quoted market prices.
Current assets and liabilities Financial instruments included within current assets and liabilities excluding cash and borrowings are generally short-term innature and accordingly their fair values approximate to their book values.
Borrowings and cash The carrying values of cash and short-term borrowings approximate to their fair values because of the short-term maturity ofthese instruments.
Derivative financial instruments Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value at the contract date, and are remeasured to fair value at subsequent reporting dates.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
In deriving the fair value, the derivative financial instruments are classified as level 1, level 2 or level 3 dependent on the valuation method applied in determining their fair value.
The different levels have been defined as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly that is, as prices 2 or indirectly that is, derived from prices.
3 Inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data that is, unobservable inputs.
Across the years ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016 the financial instruments held at fair value by the Group relate to foreign currency contracts used as derivatives for hedging and the contingent consideration relating to the five:am acquisition in the year to 31 May 2015 that was settled in the year to 31 May 2016.
For both the year ended 31 May 2017 and 31 May 2016, the assets and liabilities arising from foreign currency contracts have beenclassified as level 2.
The contingent consideration that arose on the acquisition of five:am was classified as level 3 prior tosettlement.
There have been no transfers between either level 1 and 2 or level 2 and 3 in any period.
