Shareholder information & contacts Disclaimer Annual General Meeting Registered office The purpose of this document is to provide The Annual General Meeting will PZ Cussons Plc information to the members of PZCussons Plc.
Thisdocument contains certain statements that beheldat 10.30am on Wednesday Manchester Business Park areforward-looking statements.
These statements 27September 2017 at: 3500 Aviator Way appear in a number of places throughout this Manchester Strategic Report and include statements regarding our intentions, beliefs or current expectations and PZ Cussons Plc M22 5TG those of our officers, Directors and employees Tel: 0161 435 1000 Manchester Business Park concerning, amongst other things, our results of www.
com 3500 Aviator Way operations, financial condition, liquidity, prospects, growth, strategies and the business we operate.
Manchester Registered number M22 5TG By their nature, these statements involve Company registration number uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ Financial calendar 00019457 materially from those anticipated.
The forwardThe key dates for PZ Cussons financial looking statements reflect knowledge and Registrars information available at the date of preparation calendar are available on our website of this document and unless otherwise required www.
com Computershare Investor Services Plc bythe applicable law the Company undertakes The Pavilions noobligation to update or revise these forwardBridgwater Road looking statements.
Nothing in this document should be construed as a profit forecast.
Bristol The Company and its Directors accept no liability BS13 8AE tothird parties inrespect of this document save www.
com aswould arise under English law.
Company Secretary This report has been printed in the UK.
Our printers are accredited with ISO14001 and hold full FSC S P Plant chain of custody, they are also carbon neutral.
All inks used are vegetable-based.
The paper is fully recyclable and biodegradable and is an FSC mixed-sources certified material.
If you have finished reading this report and no longer wish to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers, or recycle it.
This Strategic Report is available at www.
com Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.
com Read more about our Directorson pages 2 and 3 oftheGovernance and FinancialStatements.
PZCussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 PZCussons Plc Manchester Business Park 3500 Aviator Way Manchester M22 5TG Tel: 0161 435 1000 www.
com Welcome to the PZ Cussons Governance and Financial Statements 2017 This interactive pdf allows you to easily access the information that you want.
Use the document controls located at the top of each page to navigate through the report and use the contents to jump straight to the section you require.
Search the entire Return to the contents document by keyword.
at the beginning of the document.
Print a single page Next Page or whole sections.
Previous Page Contents Governance Financial Statements 90 Company Balance Sheet 01 Chairs Letter to Shareholders 91 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 36 Independent Auditors Report Group 02 Board of Directors 92 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 44 Consolidated Income Statement 04 Report of the Directors 102 Further Statutory and Other Information 45 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 08 Statement of the Chair of the 103 Five Year Finacial Record Unaudited 46 Consolidated Balance Sheet Remuneration Committee 104 Shareholder Information and Contacts 47 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 10 Report on Directors Remuneration 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 10 Directors Remuneration Policy 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 18 Annual Report on Remuneration 88 Independent Auditors Report Company 27 Report on Corporate Governance Links Throughout this report there are links to pages, other sections and web addresses for additional information.
They are recognisable by the blue underline simply click to go to the relevant page or web URL www.
com Governance and Financial Statements 2017 Creating sustainable value for all PZCussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 Contents PZCussons is a dynamic Governance 01 Chairs Letter to Shareholders consumer products group 02 Board of Directors 04 Report of the Directors and innovator of some of 08 Statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee the worlds best known 10 Report on Directors Remuneration 10 Directors Remuneration Policy 18 Annual Report on Remuneration and loved brands.
27 Report on Corporate Governance Financial statements 36 Independent Auditors Report Calling on over 130 years of expertise, we Group operate internationally in carefully selected 44 Consolidated Income Statement 45 Consolidated Statement of developed and emerging markets which present Comprehensive Income the greatest strategic potential forfuture growth.
46 Consolidated Balance Sheet 47 Consolidated Statement of Our world-class supply chain and distribution Changes in Equity networks enable us tomeet global consumer 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 49 Notes to the Consolidated Financial needs and deliver quality brands which add value Statements andenhance everyday lives.
88 Independent Auditors Report Company 90 Company Balance Sheet 91 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 92 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 102 Further Statutory and Other Information 103 Five Year Financial Record Unaudited 104 Shareholder Information Our 2017 Report and Contacts Our Annual Report is split into two distinct reporting sections: a Strategic Report, and Governance and Financial Statements.
These documents are to be read in conjunction with each other.
Strategic Report 2017 Cr ea t in g s us tain ab le value for all Strategic Report Governance and Financial Statements The Strategic Report provides anoverview of how the Group The Governance and Financial operates and provides insight Statements provides an into our strategy, business model, in depth analysis of the people and vision.
Groups annual results and governance processes.
Online Digital, downloadable copies of the two reports are available online at: www.
