k c a b SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our Evolving Operating Model.
We are currently transforming our category management approach, Previous stock buying model New stock buying model buying model and stock management process to harmonise the customer proposition, increase efficiency and lower operating costs while providing a fast track development route to improve speed to market.
Within a multi-year programme, referred to internally as UK Retail Design to Customer, we will continue to invest in our systems and processes to deliver greater efficiencies.
Global The key process changes within this are: Wholesale EU Retail one single integrated range construction so that the Wholesale Franchise offering is a subset of the Retail range which, in turn, is a subset of our largest range offered through E-commerce.
This allows us to optimise our buying model across the routes to our customers and, in turn, drives purchasing economies and enhances sell-through: increasing our direct sourcing and better phasing of purchasing Future business model patterns to ensure newness for our customers, improve stock management, product availability, and stock levels: and ensuring our range development strategies are informed by a deep understanding of our customers and reflects the insight gleaned from our extensive customer research programme.
These process changes will be accompanied by physical and systemic changes to our supply chain.
These developments include bringing our distribution centres closer to market, providing zonal fulfilment across all routes to our customers and, after the successful creation of a consolidated retail stock pool in 2015, merging Wholesale and Retail inventory into a single pool to fully maximise availability.
Customer Customer Design Colleague Shareholder Read more about Our Customers on page 9 Read more about Our Colleagues on page 21 Read more about Our Governance on pages 56 to 95 www.
co. uk 14 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 d e e F e l a e s c r e e l m l o i m a h o t C e - W R E SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements www.
