SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements Our Governance The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the Financial regulation.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statements Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity for each financial 52-week period.
Under that law the Directors of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
by the European Union and Company financial statements in The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Companys performance, business model and strategy.
view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
In preparing Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on the financial statements, the Directors are required to: pages 57 to 59, confirms that to the best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the Company financial statements, which have been prepared in consistently: accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European profit of the Company: Union have been followed for the Group financial statements and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in for the Company financial statements, subject to any material accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and the Management Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis and Company, together with a description of the principal risks unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and and uncertainties that it faces.
Company will continue in business.
Euan Sutherland Nick Wharton The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and 6 July 2017 Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
co. uk 95 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Financial Statements.
