Remuneration Report The Board is pleased to present its remuneration report for the year ended 31st December 2002.
Remuneration Committee During the year, the Board delegated its powers to determine the Companys remuneration policy for senior executives, including executive directors, to the Remuneration Committee the Committee, the members of which during the year were Robert Nicholls Chairman, David Howell, Antony Beevor, Ingrid Alexander and Timothy Harris, all of whom are regarded by the Company as independent non-executive directors.
Further details relating to the Committee may be found on page 39 of this report.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Combined Code published by the Committee on Corporate Governance.
It has also received advice on executive remuneration from New Bridge Street Consultants, which during the year was confirmed by the Committee as its retained advisor.
The Committee has also received material assistance from Justin Jewitt, the Groups Chief Executive, James Buchanan, the Groups Director of Human Resources and Emma Thomas, the Group Company Secretary, all of whom attend meetings of the Committee as required and not in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
The Company has also instructed New Bridge Street Consultants to advise it on certain ad hoc matters during the year, for example in relation to certain pensions matters and the administration of the Companys share schemes, and has separate terms of engagement with the rm.
Remuneration Policy The Committees overall aim is to provide a package of remuneration which is sufficient but no more than is necessary to attract, retain and motivate all of the Companys senior management, including executive directors, to reward good performance with remuneration that is in line with that payable in broadly comparable businesses and to reward exceptional performance in such a way as to align the executives interests with those of the Groups shareholders.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in three component parts.
Overall, the executive directors remuneration packages incorporates a significant element of variable performancerelated pay, which comprises annual bonus and long-term incentives: Basic salary and benets Basic salary is determined by reference to the responsibilities and performance of the individual during the year, taking into account experience and the rates of basic pay for similar roles in comparable companies.
In addition to the basic salary and items described below, the Company provides a range of benets to executive directors, the most significant of which are a fully expensed car or cash alternative and pension benets.
The Committees overall aim remains to ensure that the cash remuneration paid to the Groups senior managers is broadly in line with the median of that paid by comparable businesses, having particular regard to their size and complexity and remains competitive to retain them.
Salaries are reviewed annually, normally in November of each year and any increases usually take effect from 1st January in the following year.
It is the Committees practice to undertake market reviews of directors and senior managers salaries, with the assistance of New Bridge Street Consultants, every two years.
At present, executive directors basic salaries range from 129,000 to 250,000 for the Chief Executive.
Cash bonus Each year, the Committee sets stretching bonus targets for each executive, aiming to achieve a balance between shortand mediumterm objectives.
Targets comprise individual performance criteria specic to the executives role and overall Company performance including profit before tax, earnings per share and cash generation.
In the scheme in operation during 2002, no bonus was payable unless the Groups profitability met certain stringent targets relating to the Companys profit growth, whether or not the executive achieved his individual objectives.
With effect from 2003, the Committee has adopted a revised bonus scheme, in respect of which bonuses for executive directors will be based on a combination of the achievement of specic profit targets earnings per share for the Group as a whole and profit growth for each division where appropriate and the achievement of personal targets aligned to those areas for which they are specically responsible.
Up to 80% of the total maximum bonus will be payable in respect of financial targets and up to 20% of the total maximum bonus is payable if the executive meets all of his personal objectives in full.
No bonus is payable if the relevant financial targets are not met.
With effect from 2003, the maximum bonus payable to executive directors will be 80% of salary excluding that payable to William Holmes, which will remain 50% of salary.
However, these directors will be required to invest half of any post-tax annual bonus received in the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan, which was introduced in May 2002, following its approval by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Details of this plan are provided later in this report.
Share options The Board believes that share ownership by senior executives encourages superior performance, since the interests of management and shareholders are thereby aligned.
The Board further believes that the provision of share schemes to the Groups managers should be structured in such a way as to encourage them to achieve its long-term aims and that the Groups most senior managers, including executive directors, should be given the opportunity to aim for exceptional performance with potentially significant rewards.
Accordingly, it is the Committees policy to grant share options to executive directors, as well as to other employees, provided adequate performance has been demonstrated.
Options are not exercisable unless the Company has met challenging performance targets as determined by the Committee, details of which are outlined below.
31 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Remuneration Report continued Employee share option schemes The Company operates a number of employee share option schemes available to executive directors and to middle and senior managers, all of which except the savings related option scheme have performance conditions attached to them and details of which are outlined below.
It also operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, available to certain executive directors.
The performance criteria applicable to these schemes are also outlined below.
It is the Companys policy regularly to grant share options, on a tiered basis, to a broad range of middle and senior management, including executive directors.
In previous years, options have been granted annually to executive directors, at a rate of one times salary, although in exceptional cases, where a key executive joins the Group, a higher limit has been applied.
In 2002, following approval by the Companys shareholders of the LTIP and the Nestor Healthcare Group Share Option Plan 2002 the 2002 Plan, the Committee granted options to executive directors under the 2002 Plan, including, to certain directors, options from the super option section of that plan as well.
In 2003, the Committee intends to invite certain directors namely Justin Jewitt, Stephen Booty and Stephen Page to participate in the LTIP, using bonuses received in 2004 in respect of their performance in 2003.
It does not intend to grant super options to directors in the same financial year as they participate in the LTIP.
The Committee has determined that the exercise of options held under the Company Share Option Plan 1996 and the Employee Share Option Scheme 1996 is conditional on growth in the Companys normalised earnings per share of at least 5% per annum above the growth in the UK retail prices index over three consecutive financial years beginning with the financial year prior to the date of grant and continuing throughout the period during which the option is exercisable.
Following the introduction of the 2002 Plan and LTIP in 2002, the Committee does not intend to grant any further options under both the 1996 Schemes.
The 2002 Plan and the LTIP were adopted by the Company following approval by shareholders at its Annual General Meeting in May 2002.
In proposing and adopting the schemes, the Committee took extensive advice from New Bridge Street Consultants and sought and obtained the prior approval of a number of the Companys largest shareholders.
In formulating the schemes, the Committee had regard to current best practice relating to such arrangements, including the current guidelines of the Association of British Insurers ABI and National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and sought to reect both best practice and the guidelines in both schemes.
For options granted under the 2002 Plan in 2003, the exercise of options granted to the Groups senior managers will be conditional upon average growth in the Companys normalised earnings per share of at least 5% per annum above the UK retail prices index RPI over a three-year period.
In respect of the Groups most senior managers, including all executive directors, a range of EPS targets will apply to grants such that the first third of an option may be exercised if the Companys average earnings per share growth exceeds an average of RPI plus 5% per annum, the second third of the option is subject to an average earnings per share growth of 6% per annum above RPI and the final third is only exercisable if the Companys average earnings per share growth exceeds 10% above RPI.
In all cases, performance is initially tested over a three-year period, although there are two opportunities to re-test the earnings per share performance targets after years four and five, using the year of grant as the base year.
Earnings per share was chosen as the relevant benchmark for the measurement of the Companys performance since the target requires substantial improvement in underlying financial performance before options may be exercised.
This complements the requirement inherent in an option, which is to grow the share price.
The range of EPS targets are considered to be appropriately stretching, generating higher potential reward levels for higher levels of financial performance.
Executive directors normally receive options equating to one years salary annually.
In addition to granting options on the basis described above, the 2002 Plan also provides for the grant of super options to certain of the Groups most senior managers, including executive directors, although in future years the Committee intends to grant these super options to the Groups senior managers excluding those executive directors who can expect to receive LTIPs.
These options may be granted over shares worth up to one and a half times the individuals salary and the exercise of these options is subject to the achievement of more stretching targets than those prescribed by the Committee in relation to the Groups other share option schemes.
It is intended that any grants of super options made in 2003 will have the same performance targets as those in 2002.
This is based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR, compared with other companies in the FTSE Mid 250 index excluding investment trusts as at the date of grant, measured over a single three-year period from grant.
None of the award vests for performance below the top 45% of companies.
For TSR performance at the 45th Percentile, 40% of the options become exercisable and the option is fully exercisable only if the Companys performance is in the top 25% of companies in the comparator group.
Options are exercisable on a pro rata sliding scale basis between these two points.
Further, no element of the option is exercisable unless the Companys normalised earnings per share growth over the relevant period exceeds 5% per annum over RPI.
There is no opportunity for retesting under this part of the Plan.
Under the LTIP, the executive directors referred to above will be required to invest one half of their post-tax cash bonus in buying shares in the Company.
The investment will be matched by the grant of matching awards provided in normal circumstances that the executive remains employed over the three-year performance period and certain performance targets are achieved.
For the Chief Executive, this matching award is over shares with a value of up to four times the pre-tax value of the bonus invested in shares.
For the other executive directors, the matching award is over shares with a value of up to two and a half times the pre-tax value of the bonus invested.
Matching awards will normally only vest on the third anniversary of its grant to the extent that the participant remains in the Companys employment and has retained the shares purchased by him.
As with the super options referred to above, initial awards will be granted on the basis of a performance target linked to the Companys TSR compared with other companies in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding investment trusts, measured over a three-year period.
None of the award will vest for performance below the top 45% of companies and maximum awards only fully vest if the Companys performance is in the top 10% of companies.
Further, none of the award will vest if the Companys normalised earnings per share growth does not exceed the growth in RPI by an average of at least 5% per annum over the three-year period.
There will be no opportunity for retesting the performance of the Company under this scheme.
The Committee intends to use the same performance criteria for grants in the foreseeable future, unless best practice dictates that alternative targets should be considered.
32 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 The Committee considers that the FTSE Mid 250 Index is the most appropriate benchmark for both the super options granted under the 2002 Plan and the LTIP as the company is a constituent of the index.
A comparator group of similar companies was considered inappropriate as there are very few companies with a similar business prole listed on the UK Stock Exchange.
The Committee considers that the performance necessary for executives to receive the full benefit under this part of the 2002 Plan and the LTIP was sufciently exacting to merit such awards.
The Committee intends to use the same performance criteria for grants under both plans in the foreseeable future but continues to keep the appropriateness of such criteria under review.
A chart showing the Companys Total Shareholder Return compared to the FTSE Mid 250 Index for the five years ended 31st December 2002 is shown below.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Nestor Healthcare FTSE Mid 250 Index 400 300 200 100 0 31 Dec 97 31 Dec 98 31 Dec 99 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 Graph 1 shows the value, by the end of 2002, of 100 invested in Nestor Healthcare Group plc on 31st December 1997 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid 250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at interim financial year-ends.
The Company also operates a savings-related share option scheme, which provides a long-term savings opportunity for all of the Groups employees, as well as encouraging them to participate in the success of the Company.
Participation is open to all permanent employees who are able to make regular monthly savings and are exercisable in normal circumstances after three or five years at a price which is xed at a discount of 20% from the average of the mid-market prices for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which invitations are made by the Committee.
Company policy on contracts of service It is the Committees policy only to offer contracts terminable on no more than twelve months notice to executive directors.
All executive directors who served during the year have contracts of employment terminable on one years notice, except Justin Jewitt and David Lyon, whose contracts were issued in 1997 and 1998 respectively, provide for two years notice from the Company in circumstances of a change of control.
The Committee does not intend to offer contracts with such termination provisions to new directors and intends, when offering contracts of employment to newly appointed executive directors, to have regard to the broad principles outlined in the ABI and NAPFs joint statement on Best Practice on Executive Contracts and Severance.
Non-executive directors do not hold contracts of employment but are offered letters of appointment for a xed period of three years, renewable annually thereafter by agreement.
The Chairmans letter of appointment, fuller details of which are outlined below, provides for payment of 25% of his annual fee in the event of early termination of his appointment.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for the early termination of their appointment and no non-executive director is entitled to any employment-related benets.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups long-term incentive arrangements, nor is their remuneration pensionable.
Company policy on the pensions of executive directors Executive directors are able to join the Companys Retirement Benets Scheme the Scheme, a funded, Inland Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension scheme.
Executive directors are entitled to a pension based on final salary excluding bonuses and length of pensionable service.
The Company has agreed to provide benets to directors based on their actual basic salary, even where this exceeds the Inland Revenue Earnings cap, subject to their making members contributions to the Scheme on the same basis.
The Company has also established an unapproved scheme to provide additional death-in-service benets to these directors in line with their actual basic salaries.
After having taken advice from the Schemes actuary, the Company in 2001 agreed to improve the benets available under the Scheme to those executive directors who were members at that time.
Accordingly, the normal retirement age of directors including David Lyon and Stephen Page was reduced from 65 to 60 and the rate of accrual in respect of those directors was increased from 60th to 50th.
The Board also agreed to backdate the provision of these benets to the date of appointment to the Board of each director.
The Board has determined that a decision whether to improve the pension benets made available to executive directors will be made on a case-by-case basis and in 2002 agreed to provide similar benets to William Holmes, who joined the Scheme on becoming an executive director in October 2001.
It has also agreed to provide pension benets from the Scheme on this basis to Stephen Booty, who became a director in June 2002 and to pay him a cash sum to enhance these benets to an accrual rate of 30th.
Prior to the establishment of the Companys current policy on membership of the scheme, the Company agreed to contribute to a personal pension plan for Justin Jewitt, which it continues to do.
33 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Remuneration Report continued Directors Service Contracts Justin Jewitt holds ofce by virtue of a contract of employment with the Company dated 20th March 1997.
The contract is terminable on twelve months notice from the Company, except in the case of a change of control, where twenty-four months notice is required if notice is given within one year of such change of control.
His contract contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, whereby the Company may terminate his employment without notice, provided it pays to him an amount equating to his salary and employers pension contributions for the unexpired period of notice due under the contract.
In addition, at the Boards discretion, he may be entitled to retain any vested share options held under the Groups Share Option Schemes for a period of up to twelve months from termination.
He may also be entitled to exercise unvested share options early in certain specified circumstances subject to the Committee taking account of the performance of the Company and the length of time elapsed since the grant date.
Further, depending on the time of year at which his employment is terminated, he may be entitled to any bonus earned by him but not yet paid under the Groups bonus scheme.
David Lyon holds ofce by virtue of a contract of employment with the Company dated 30th April 1998.
His contract contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, whereby the Company may terminate his employment without notice provided it pays to him an amount equating to his salary for the unexpired period of notice and credits him with an additional period of pensionable service equating to the same period.
Stephen Page holds ofce by virtue of a contract of employment with the Company dated 18th July 2001.
The contract is terminable on twelve months notice from the Company.
In addition, at the Boards discretion, he may be entitled to retain any share options held under the Groups Share Option Schemes for a period of up to twelve months from termination.
Stephen Booty holds ofce by virtue of a contract of employment with the Company dated 1st February 2001.
His contract contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, whereby the Company may terminate his employment without notice provided it pays to him an amount equating to his salary and benets for the unexpired period of notice and credits him with an additional period of pensionable service.
In addition, at the Boards discretion, he may be entitled to retain any share options held under the Groups Share Option Schemes for a period of up to twelve months from termination and, depending on the time of year at which his employment is terminated.
William Holmes holds ofce by virtue of a contract of employment with the Company dated 1st October 2001.
His contract contains a pay in lieu of notice clause, whereby the Company may terminate his employment without notice provided it pays to him an amount equating to his salary and benets for the unexpired period of notice and credits him with an additional period of pensionable service equating to the same period.
Further, and, depending on the time of year at which his employment is terminated, he may be entitled to any bonus earned by him but not yet paid under the Groups bonus scheme.
Antony Beevor holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment dated 7th December 2001.
His appointment is for an initial term of three years from 1st January 2002, extendable annually thereafter, subject to mutual agreement.
In the event that his appointment is terminated by the Company before the expiry of the letter of appointment, a sum equivalent to 25% of his annual fee is payable.
Robert Nicholls holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment dated 14th May 1997.
His appointment was for an initial term of three years from 1st September 1997 and was extended for a further three years in September 2000.
His letter of appointment does not provide for any compensation to be payable in the event of early termination of his ofce.
David Howell holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment dated 26th August 1999.
His appointment was for an initial term of three years from 31st August 1999 and has been extended for a further three years.
Ingrid Alexander holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment dated 25th July 2001.
Her appointment is for an initial term of three years from 13th August 2001 and does not provide for any compensation to be paid in the event of early termination of her ofce.
Timothy Harris holds ofce by virtue of a letter of appointment dated 6th December 2001.
His appointment is for an initial term of three years from 1st January 2002 and does not provide for any compensation to be paid in the event of early termination of his ofce.
34 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Directors emoluments Performance Compensation Basic salary related Taxable for loss Total emoluments and fees bonuses benets of ofce excluding pensions 2002 2002 2002 2002 2002 2001 000 000 000 000 000 000 I C Alexander 27 27 10 A R Beevor 78 78 26 S M Booty 86 28 8 122 R I Burns 133 68 15 158 374 T C Harris 27 27 D G Heywood 8 8 111 W F Holmes 129 53 14 196 137 M D R Horgan 28 7 3 38 251 D Howell 35 35 31 J A S Jewitt 250 94 17 361 491 D O Lyon 160 71 12 243 293 R M Nicholls 35 35 31 S R Page 160 24 16 200 271 A Parker 6 Total 2002 1,156 345 85 158 1,744 Total 2001 931 674 53 1,658 Benets receivable consists primarily of car allowance, car fuel and healthcare insurance.
Included in compensation for loss of ofce for Robert Burns was 1,125 of redundancy payment.
He was further paid an amount of 1,000, which represents consultancy payments for the month of November and December.
Subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, Robert Burns is allowed to exercise all share options he currently holds in the period up to 31st October 2003.
David Heywood was paid a total of 7,500 consultancy fees from 1st January 2002 until 31st May 2002.
Anne Parker retired as a director on 31st March 2001.
William Holmes was appointed as an executive director on 1st October 2001, having previously been a non-executive director.
David Heywood retired as a director on 31st December 2001.
Stephen Page and Ingrid Alexander were appointed on 2nd March 2001 and 13th August 2001 respectively.
Michael Horgan resigned as a director on 4th March 2002 but continues as a full-time employee of the Group.
Robert Burns and Timothy Harris were appointed as directors on 1st January 2002.
Stephen Booty was appointed as a director on 19th June 2002.
Robert Burns resigned as a director on 30th October 2002.
The gures above represent emoluments earned as directors during the relevant financial year.
All are paid in the year that they are earned, with the exception of bonuses, which are paid in the year following that in which they were earned.
Directors pensions Dened benefit scheme Increase in Increase in accrued Transfer value of the Accrued pension accrued pension pension per annum Transfer value of Transfer value of increase excluding per annum at per annum during 2002 excluding accrued pension at accrued pension at price ination less 31st December 2002 during 2002 price ination 31st December 2002 31st December 2001 directors contribution 000 000 000 000 000 000 S M Booty appointed 19th June 2002 3 2 2 23 12 9 R I Burns resigned 30th October 2002 6 2 2 44 31 14 W F Holmes 3 3 3 23 6 12 M D R Horgan resigned 4th March 2002 56 1 1 701 703 4 D O Lyon 37 3 3 179 226 6 S R Page 7 3 3 31 22 7 The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The above gures exclude any benets derived from directors additional voluntary contributions.
Indicates section has been audited.
35 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Remuneration Report continued Dened contribution scheme Employer contributions of 106,000 were paid during the year to a personal pension plan for Justin Jewitt.
Employer contributions of 53,333 were paid during the year as a cash sum to Stephen Booty.
None of the directors has any non-beneficial interest in the Companys share capital.
No director was materially interested in any contract of signicance apart from contracts of service or for services with any Group company during or at the end of the financial year.
There have been no changes in the directors interest in the share capital of the Company between 31st December 2002 and the date of this report.
Employee Share Option Scheme 1996 Options: performance target is RPI plus 5% per annum over 3 years.
Company Share Option Plan 1996 Options: performance target is RPI plus 5% per annum over 3 years.
Share Option Plan 2002: see policy section for details of performance conditions.
There is no cost to the employee for the receipt of options under the Employee Share Option Scheme 1996, Company Share Option Plan 1996 or the Share Option Plan 2002.
Deductions from earnings are made in respect of SAYE options.
Employee Share Option Scheme 1996, Company Share Option Plan 1996 and Share Option Plan 2002 option prices are xed at the mid-market price on the business day preceding the date of grant.
SAYE Scheme options are xed at a discount of 20% from the average of the mid-market prices for the five business days immediately before the date of invitation.
The mid-market price at 31st December 2002 was 216 pence and the range during the year was 622.5 pence to 175 pence.
During the year, Justin Jewitt exercised 221,400 options granted under the Employee Share Option Scheme: the market price of the shares at the time of exercise was 595 pence per share.
The aggregate gain made was 1,062,720.
He retained a total of 100,000 shares after such exercise.
Aggregate gains made by directors on the exercise of share options in 2001 were 431,145.
During the year, Michael Horgans 1,270 options held under the SAYE Scheme lapsed.
No grants were made during the year under the Nestor Healthcare Group Long Term Incentive Plan 2002.
On behalf of the Board Robert Nicholls, CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3rd March 2003 37 Nestor Healthcare Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002
