8 REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is comprised To qualify for the first awards under the at the median level to the market.
The wholly of independent non-executive Companys proposed Long-Term Incentive Committee has been moving executive directors of the Company: Nigel Colne, Janet Plan the LTIP, executive directors will directors salaries to the median position Walker and Ian Thomson.
The chief have to hold an agreed number of shares.
during the past two years.
executive and human resources director This is a stepping stone to executive attend by invitation.
directors building up significant Performance Bonus shareholdings over a five year period.
Performance-related bonuses are paid to The function of the Remuneration executive directors, at the discretion of the The Committee intends to adopt a Committee is to determine, on behalf of the Committee, based on the achievement of comparative total shareholder return Board, the remuneration and other benefits demanding group financial targets.
The measure against the FTSE Leisure, of all executive directors and senior performance bonus is designed to align the Entertainment and Hotels Sector the management including salaries, bonuses, interests of participants with those of sector for the release of the first award of long term share incentives and service shareholders by requiring that a significant shares under the LTIP.
We believe that a contracts, as well as ensuring that the proportion of bonus is paid in Company comparative total shareholder return Group has appropriate senior succession shares.
measure will ensure that the Company has planning processes in place.
It is intended to to improve its profitability and earnings per This year, our targets have not been met and align the interests of both management and share, and also on a comparative basis no bonus payments are being made.
staff as closely as possible with the interests deliver at least median performance against of shareholders.
Share Arrangements Executive directors and senior executives During the year the Company complied with The Company is also proposing the adoption participate in the PizzaExpress Discretionary Section A of the Combined Code, and, in of the PizzaExpress PLC Executive Share Share Option Scheme, details of which are framing its remuneration policy, the Option Plan under which market value given in note 3 to the accounts.
Remuneration Committee has given full options may be granted to executive consideration to Section B of the Combined directors and key employees.
For the first No further options will be granted under this Code.
grant of options to vest the Committee is scheme after the introduction of the new proposing that an earnings per share PizzaExpress PLC Executive Share Option At the last AGM, we obtained shareholder measure be satisfied.
approval for an All Employee Share Incentive the adoption of this measure is that the Plan.
This type of scheme is Inland Revenue Full details of the levels and performance options will provide no value unless the approved, and has allowed our staff to conditions for the first grants under the Companys share price increases.
However, participate in the growth of the business, by new PizzaExpress PLC Executive Share in addition to an increase in the share price acquiring shares out of their gross salary, Option Plan and Long-Term Incentive Plan from the date of grant, the basic earnings which are then matched by the Company on are contained in the accompanying per share measure will also ensure that the a one-for-one basis, subject to continuing shareholders circular.
Company grows in real terms over the employment with the Group for three years.
We see this as a valuable feature of our staff Pension retention measures.
During the year we have received The Group does not operate a company wholly independent advice on executive pension scheme and the directors are This year we have conducted a detailed compensation from specialist advisers in responsible for their own pension review of the share incentive and retention this field.
arrangements for the Companys executive directors and key employees with retained Directors Service Contracts The Companys Policy on Executive remuneration advisers.
The Committee has All executive directors have service contracts Director Remuneration consulted the Companys principal that may be terminated with 12 months Total Level of Remuneration shareholders and obtained their support for notice.
Non-executive directors do not have Remuneration levels for the Board and the new share plans, full details of which are service contracts.
senior management are set by reference to contained in the accompanying individual performance, experience and shareholders circular.
The Company is Non-executive Directors market conditions.
Full details of directors asking shareholders to vote in favour of The fees paid to the non-executive directors remuneration and benefits are given in note these new plans at this years AGM.
are determined by the Board.
Non-executive 3 to the financial statements.
Details of the directors do not participate in the The purpose of the new share plans is to directors interests in shares in the Company Companys share schemes, nor do they provide an impetus to the next stage of are disclosed in the Report of the Directors receive pension contributions, bonus or any the Companys development by rewarding on page 9. other form of incentive payments.
significant improvements in the key performance indicators of the Company, Base Salary As at 30 June 2002, none of the directors namely profit, earnings per share and share The basic salary of each executive director is had any interests in shares of any other price growth.
determined by the Committee, and is aimed Group company.
