Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committees policy on The maximum number of shares will be The Remuneration Committee is chaired by long-term incentives is to make awards under received only if the Companys Total Sir Keith Stuart and is composed exclusively of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and to Shareholder Return TSR performance is non-executive Directors.
The other members grant options under the Executive Share ranked in the top quartile of the comparator of the Committee are Mr W Alexander and Option Scheme the Scheme to all of the group of companies.
TSR performance is a Mr J Pike.
During the year Mr C Hampson and executive Directors on an annual basis.
comparison of the annualised percentage Professor Dr K Rsener, both non-executive growth in RMCs share price assuming all Directors, resigned from the Committee In line with this policy the Remuneration dividends and capital distributions are following their retirement from the Board Committee made awards under the LTIP and re-invested, with the total shareholder returns on 3 May 2002. the Scheme to the executive Directors in 2002 of a defined peer group of companies over a on the following basis: three-year period.
The principal functions of the Committee are to The Group Chief Executive received a make recommendations to the Board regarding conditional award of shares under the LTIP If the Companys TSR performance is below the Companys policy on the remuneration and with a face value equivalent to 100% of median, participants will receive no shares.
conditions of employment of executive salary and a grant of executive options, which The Companys TSR performance in respect Directors of the Company and to determine are subject to a performance condition, of the 2000 awards covering the period 2000 and approve their specific remuneration, with a face value of 100% of salary.
to 2002 was judged to be in the lower half benefits and terms of employment.
The other executive Directors each received of the comparator group and, accordingly, no a conditional award under the LTIP of shares were allocated to participants in respect In formulating their recommendations, the shares with a face value equivalent to 65% of those awards, which have now lapsed.
Committee seeks the views of other Board of salary and a grant of executive options, members as necessary.
During the period which are subject to a performance For the 2001 LTIP, participants will receive under review, the Committee sought the condition, with a face value equivalent to 20% of the maximum number of shares for assistance of the Chairman and the Group 100% of salary.
The grants and awards median performance and for the 2002 award Chief Executive on matters relating to their made to overseas Directors were based on this has been increased to 40%.
The subordinates performance and remuneration.
a comparable UK salary to ensure that the percentage of shares participants will receive The Chairman and Group Chief Executive awards and grants are broadly consistent if the Company is ranked between the top normally attend meetings of the Remuneration for all executive Directors.
quartile and median will be a proportionally Committee.
The Group Chief Executive, smaller number of shares for each lower however, is not present when any aspect The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews position in this quartile.
of his remuneration is under discussion.
the policy on long-term incentives to ensure that it is broadly in line with market practice The comparator group of companies for Remuneration policy and to maintain its continued effectiveness.
each of the 2000, 2001 and 2002 awards The remuneration policy in respect of the comprised the companies that were executive Directors is to ensure that individual Basic salary constituents of the former FTSE Actuaries remuneration reflects the long-term objectives In setting the basic salary the Committee looks Building Materials and Merchants Index.
of the Group, the performance of each at salary levels within broadly similar companies.
Director and the interests of the shareholders: The Committee also considers the Directors The number of companies in the existing and that the overall remuneration package experience, performance and responsibilities.
comparator group is reducing as a result of enables the Company to attract and retain Basic salaries are generally reviewed on an market consolidation and, for this reason, the high calibre executives.
Remuneration Committee believes that going forward a different comparator group should To assist with this, the Committee has 2003 salary review be used.
Therefore, the comparator group for appointed Mercer Human Resource Consulting Given the current challenging market the purpose of future awards will consist of Mercer to provide independent market conditions, no adjustments to basic salaries companies ranked between 50 and 200 by information and remuneration advice.
of executive Directors will be made for 2003. market capitalisation in the FTSE 350 at the beginning of the performance period.
The The remuneration package of the Companys Long-term incentive schemes Committee believes that the FTSE 50200 executive Directors consists of basic salary, an i Long-Term Incentive Plan companies are the most relevant comparators annual bonus scheme, taxable benefits, longAll executive Directors are eligible to participate because they: term incentive schemes and pension in the LTIP.
Under the LTIP, participating include companies of similar size and arrangements.
It is the Companys policy to Directors and other designated senior complexity as RMC: and provide a significant portion of the total executives are conditionally allocated a number are in direct competition for capital in the potential rewards through performance-based of the Companys Ordinary shares at the start UK market.
The details of each element of the of each scheme year.
Conditional allocations Directors remuneration arrangements are of shares under the LTIP were made in 2000, outlined in this Report.
The three-year performance periods in respect of these awards commenced on 1 January in each of those years.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 34 The analysis carried out during the process growth rate of at least 6% per annum more RMC total shareholder return of selecting a new comparator group than the increase in the Retail Prices Index Value of 100 demonstrated that historically the new averaged over the performance period.
For invested comparator group would have provided a option grants with a face value in excess of 130 more stretching target compared with the one times a participants base salary, more x 120 x existing performance condition.
stretching EPS targets will apply.
x x 110 x ii Executive Share Option Scheme The Committee believe that the combination 100 97 98 99 00 01 02 Senior executives, in addition to all executive of TSR and EPS performance conditions will 90 Directors, participate in the Executive Share encourage shareholder value creation and 80 Option Scheme.
The options granted in 1996, improved financial performance and is 70 2001 and 2002 were granted under the consistent with good market practice.
The initial performance period for the 2001 50 The options granted in 1996 can be exercised and 2002 option grants is three years.
Source: Mercer RMC Group p. l. c. FTSE 350 Index only if the increase in the Companys earnings However, if the performance conditions x Median of the FTSE 50-200 per share EPS exceeds the increase in the are not satisfied after three years, the Retail Prices Index by 6% measured over any performance period will be four years, and, Pensions three-year period between the date of grant if it is not satisfied after four years, the Executive Directors who are resident in the UK and the exercise date.
performance period will be five years.
If the are eligible to accrue benefits as members of performance condition has not been satisfied the RMC Executives Pension Fund the UK The options granted in 2001 and 2002 will after five years the options will lapse.
Fund, which is a defined benefit scheme be exercisable only if over the performance approved by the Inland Revenue.
At period there has been an increase in the Following extensive consultation with our 31 December 2002 all the executive Directors Companys EPS which, in aggregate, equates shareholders, the Remuneration Committee resident in the UK were members of the to a compound annual growth rate of at least has decided that going forward there will be UK Fund.
3% per annum more than the increase in the no retesting of options.
The performance Retail Prices Index averaged over the period for future awards will be three years The UK Fund is non-contributory for members performance period.
and if the performance condition has not and has a normal retirement age of 60 for been met in that time the option will lapse.
It normally provides a In normal circumstances the options granted pension of two-thirds of final pensionable are exercisable not earlier than three years and iii Sharesave schemes salary on retirement at age 60, subject to the not later than 10 years after the date of grant The Group operates sharesave schemes in the completion of at least 20 years service in the and only while the executive remains in the UK, certain European countries and the USA.
If less than 20 years Companys employment.
In certain Along with other employees, any executive service has been completed, benefits are circumstances, for example retirement, the Director who has more than six months adjusted accordingly.
options are exercisable during the six-month service and is based in one of the respective period following an executive ceasing to be countries can participate in the relevant On the death of a Director before age 60, the employed by the Company.
The options under the UK UK Fund pays a lump sum of four times the and European schemes may normally be current salary plus a widows pension and child Going forward, the Committee is proposing exercised after three or five years, at a price allowances for up to two eligible children.
to split the grant of options under the RMC equivalent to not less than 80% of the market The widows pension would be equal to twoGroup p. l. c. Executive Share Option Scheme value of the shares at the date employees are thirds of the pension that the Director would into two equal tranches and make exercise invited to join the plan.
The US scheme options have received had he remained in employment subject to tougher performance conditions.
may normally be exercised after two years at until age 60, and based on the Directors a price equivalent to 85% of the market value pensionable salary at date of death.
On the One tranche will be exercisable if the TSR of of the shares at the time of grant.
death of a Director in retirement, a widows RMC is at or above median relative to the pension of two-thirds of the Directors TSRs of a comparator group over the Performance graph pension entitlement is payable from the UK performance period.
The comparator group The graph above shows RMCs total Fund, plus child allowances for up to two consists of companies ranked between 50 and shareholder return for the five years to eligible children.
200 by market capitalisation in the FTSE 350 December 2002, together with, for general at the beginning of the performance period.
comparison, the TSR for the FTSE 350 All pensions paid from the UK Fund are companies, and the median TSR for the FTSE subject to guaranteed annual increases in line The other tranche will be exercisable only if 50200 companies, which have been selected with the annual rise in the Retail Prices Index over the performance period there has been as the comparator group for future awards subject to a maximum of 8% per annum and an increase in the Companys EPS which, in under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
may be further increased at the discretion of aggregate, equates to a compound annual the Company and Trustee.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 35 Remuneration report continued No changes have been made to the benefit Other benefits All the executive Directors have a service structure of the UK Fund during the year.
Executive Directors are eligible for certain contract containing the above notice periods taxable benefits which include the provision of except for Mr A Auer and Mr G Letourneau.
Some Directors receive benefits on a different company cars and membership of a private Mr A Auer, who was appointed to the Board basis depending on their individual medical insurance scheme.
of the Company on 14 January 2003, has a circumstances.
It is the Companys policy to service agreement with a change of control provide those UK resident Directors whose Service contracts clause that would entitle him to compensation pension benefits are limited by the earnings Currently the standard notice period under based on one years salary and benefits.
cap which was 97,200 at 31 December service contracts for executive Directors other Mr G Letourneau has a service contract with 2002 with additional pension and death than Mr Auer and Mr Letourneau is one year, RMC Euro SAS.
This is terminable at any time benefits.
Mr Letourneau, who is resident including a clause which entitles a Director to by three months notice but, if it is terminated abroad, accrues benefits in accordance with his receive 24 months compensation if the by RMC Euro SAS for reasons other than cause, service contract.
contract is terminated in the first 12 months he is entitled to compensation equivalent to following a change of control of the Company.
Company contributions to the UK Fund and in To comply with best practice, the Committee respect of the other pension arrangements are has decided that with effect from 1 January Mr Walkers contract is dated 14 February based on external actuarial advice.
2004, the compensation payable to UK-based 2003, Mr Auers contract is dated 22 January Directors, in the event of termination of 2003, Mr Clarks contract is dated 24 January Bonuses employment following change of control, will 2003, Mr Fosters contract is dated 29 March In 2002 the Group Chief Executive and the be based on one years salary and benefits, 2000 as amended by an Agreement dated other executive Directors were eligible to rather than two years salary and benefits.
6 March 2003 and Mr Letourneaus contract participate in the Group Bonus Scheme.
The No compensation was paid to the Directors is dated 15 November 1999. criteria on which the executive Directors for this loss of benefit.
bonus was based in 2002 were as set out Share Retention Policy in the table below.
In other situations termination payments are During 2002 the Committee adopted a Share limited to the Directors normal compensation, Retention Policy.
Under this policy: For the financial year 2003 the Remuneration including basic salary, annual bonus, and the Chief Executive should seek to increase Committee has agreed that there will be no benefits, for the unexpired portion of the his shareholding in the Company to two change in the maximum bonus that could be notice period.
There is an obligation on the times his basic salary within four years: earned.
The Committee has agreed that for Directors to mitigate any loss incurred as a the other executive Directors should seek 2003 the annual bonus criteria will continue to result of their contracts being terminated to increase their shareholdings in the include a group financial performance target, prematurely by the Company and Company to one-and-a-half times their an individual business performance target and compensation payments made by the basic salary within four years: and targets based on personal objectives.
the achievement of these targets will be subject to the acquisition of shares on the exercise of executive share options and Annual bonus criteria for 2002 shares vesting from the LTIP.
Individual financial performance Personal Max Non-executive Director compensation PBT target target objectives Total Remuneration of the non-executive Directors Max bonus Max bonus Max bonus Bonus is determined by a sub-committee of the % salary % salary % salary % Board comprised of the Group Chief Executive S R Walker 20 30 20 70 and at least two other executive Directors.
A S J Durant 20 10 5 35 Neither the Chairman of the Committee nor M G Foster 20 20 10 50 the other non-executive Directors receive any R E Lambourne 20 20 10 50 pension from the Company, nor do they G E Clark 20 15 15 50 participate in any of the incentive or share G Letourneau 20 20 10 50 option schemes.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 36 Directors remuneration The remuneration of each Director, excluding long-term incentives and pensions, during the financial year ending 2002 is laid out in the table below.
Mr S R Walker was the highest paid Director in 2002 with remuneration as shown above.
The Company has agreed to pay Mr R E Lambourne monthly instalments, starting in February 2003, of 46,258 in respect of compensation for the termination of his employment and loss of office.
These payments will cease either as soon as Mr Lambourne takes up a new position or at the end of the 12-month contractual period.
He will receive a one-off payment of 25% of the balance of the monthly instalments that would otherwise have fallen due over the 12-month period if the payments cease on taking up a new position.
The maximum amount that Mr Lambourne could receive in respect of these arrangements is 555,096, being the value of his salary and contractual benefits including pensions over his contractual notice period of 12 months.
During the year Mr M G Foster purchased his company car from the Company at market value for 9,357 paid in six equal monthly instalments, with interest at a rate of 6% per annum.
The last instalment was paid in January 2003.
Mr P L Young, who retired as Group Chief Executive of the Company on 30 June 2000, has an agreement with the Company which expires on 30 June 2003 under which he has agreed to represent the Company on the Board of Huttig Building Products, Inc. a US associated undertaking and to act as Chairman of certain of the Groups pension trustee boards.
Mr Young resigned from the Board of Huttig on 2 September 2002.
During the year he received consultancy fees amounting to 38,333 2001:47,600 and taxable benefits of 2,828 2001: 19,109.
Other benefits are defined on page 36.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors of the Company, including the interests of their families, in the share capital of the Company at the undermentioned dates, all of which are held beneficially, are shown below.
No Directors were interested in any Ordinary shares or Loan Capital of any other Group undertakings.
Details of interests at one month prior to the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The above table includes interests in shares purchased by M G Foster and G E Clark under the RMC Share Ownership Plan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 37 Remuneration report continued Share options Summary of all grants At 31 December 2002, the market value of the Companys Ordinary shares, over which employee options are issued, was 367p: during 2002, the price ranged between 354p and 748p.
Options held under the Savings Related Share Option Schemes.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Summary of all awards All grants, except as noted below, are subject to the performance conditions outlined in the remuneration policy section above.
All LTIP awards are with effect from 1 January in the year in which they are awarded.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2002 38 Directors pensions The Directors current pension entitlements under the defined benefit schemes operated by the Group, based on service to 31 December 2002, are set out below: Increase in accrued Increase in Years of pension Accrued Transfer Transfer transfer value pensionable during pension at value at value at during Age at service at the year 31 Dec 2002 1 Jan 2002 31 Dec 2002 the year Note 31 Dec 2002 31 Dec 2002 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 S R Walker 2 58 31 45 292 3,852 4,841 989 G E Clark appointed 1 January 2002 3 47 29 24 100 660 678 18 A S J Durant retired 31 October 2002 4 65 38 16 217 3,162 3,293 131 M G Foster 5 49 3 3 9 60 72 12 R E Lambourne resigned 9 January 2003 6 50 6 4 19 154 154 0 G Letourneau 7 54 23 13 141 1,259 1,334 75 Notes 1.
The Transfer Values shown in the table represent a liability by the Company or relevant Pension Fund Trustees to provide a certain level of benefit on death or retirement.
It is not a lump sum that may be paid or is due to the individual.
The values have been calculated by the actuary to the UK Fund.
They reflect the age of the Director and market conditions at the beginning and end of the year.
The adjustment to take account of market conditions means that the transfer values for those Directors who are close to retirement have not been reduced in line with the fall in equity markets during the year.
The actuary calculates the values in accordance with Actuarial Guidance, Note GN11, published by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries dated 6 April 2001.
Mr S Walker will receive pension benefits in the UK Fund accrued during his UK service in addition to pension benefits payable from Readymix AG for his service in Germany.
During the year Mr Walkers service agreement was changed to include an undertaking that, if the total amount of benefits from his UK service pension and his German service pension are less than he would have received had he remained in UK service, additional benefits will be provided to make up any shortfall.
No provision has been made in respect of this undertaking as it is considered remote.
Mr Walkers German pension benefits are payable under the terms of a pension contract with Readymix AG.
This contract has been amended with effect from 1 January 2003.
Prior to the amendment, the total pension payable to Mr Walker was subject to an annual increase in line with the underlying average of salary increases of the Readymix AG Board members.
Following this amendment the total pension payable to Mr Walker under the contract is subject to an annual increase in line with the increase in the cost of living in Germany.
In addition, Readymix AG has undertaken to Mr Walker that, should there be any change in the control of Readymix AG, he will have the option of requesting that a lump sum up to the equivalent of the amount of the book reserve relating to his pension entitlement be transferred to a life insurance company nominated by him.
In addition to his pension from Readymix AG he is also entitled to a lump sum of 18,293 value at 31 December 2002.
The German pension is provided by a book reserve and the lump sum is separately funded.
The figures in the above table take account of pension benefits from Readymix AG.
Mr G Clark is entitled to benefits in the UK Fund accrued during his UK service in addition to pension benefits in the Readymix Asland Plan fide Pensiones Empleo, a qualified, defined contribution plan, accrued during his service in Spain.
His service agreement contains an undertaking that additional benefits will be provided by the Company, to make up any shortfall between his actual accrued pension under the UK Fund and the pension he would have accrued if he had remained in UK service throughout and was not subject to the earnings cap.
Aprovision has been made in respect of this undertaking of 800,000 and is included in the total UK provision disclosed.
The figures in the above table take account of pension benefits from the Readymix Asland Plan.
The Company paid 1,441 for life insurance for the period under review.
Mr A Durant took his pension from 1 January 2003.
He was entitled to receive a pension equal to 63.66% of his final years salary.
Part of his pension is provided through the UK Fund and this element will be increased in accordance with the provisions of that Fund.
The other principal part of his pension is provided through an irrevocable trust established by RMC Industries Corporation and this element will be increased by the lower of 5% a year or the annual increase in the Consumer Prices Index in the USA.
On his death, Mr Durants widow would receive a pension equal to 50% of his total pension entitlement and a lump sum.
He made no contribution to these pension arrangements.
Mr Durant contributed to a defined contribution plan established for the employees of RMC Industries Corporation.
On his behalf RMC Industries Corporation paid 11,707 to this plan for the year and 1,452 in life insurance premiums for the year 2001:12,175 and 1,927 respectively.
Mr M Fosters pension and death benefits are limited by the earnings cap.
Accordingly the Company provides him with a funded defined contribution retirement benefits scheme in respect of his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The gross contribution paid by the Company for the period under review was 78,300, plus 3,198 for life insurance 2001: 68,200 and 2,483 respectively.
Mr R Lambournes pension and death benefits are limited by the earnings cap.
Accordingly the Company provided him with a funded defined contribution retirement benefits scheme in respect of his salary in excess of the earnings cap.
The gross contribution paid by the Company for the period under review was 102,900, plus 4,500 for life insurance 2001: 93,066 and 3,883 respectively.
Mr G Letourneau is entitled to a pension of 65% of the average of his last 36 months salary at age 60.
His pension will be provided by French Social Security arrangements and national mandatory pension schemes with the balance being met by a supplementary funded defined benefit pension scheme for executives of RMC Euro SAS.
He makes contributions to the Social Security and mandatory pension arrangements but not to the supplementary scheme.
He will be entitled to a pension on early retirement on the condition that, at that time, he is also eligible to draw a social security pension.
The supplementary element of his pension will be subject to an annual increase equal to the cost of living.
On his death, Mr Letourneaus widow would receive a total pension equal to 60% of his entitlements.
Mr Letourneau also contributes to a defined contribution pension scheme and on his behalf RMC Euro SAS paid 74 to this for the period under review 2001: 67.
Former directors Dr B Baumgarten and Mr J Himstedt are each receiving pensions under the terms of their pension contracts with RMC Central Europe GmbH.
These contracts have been amended with effect from 1 January 2003.
As with Mr S Walker, prior to the amendment, the total pension payable to each of them was subject to an annual increase in line with the underlying average of salary increases of the Readymix AG Board members.
Following the amendment to the pension contracts, the total pension payable to Dr Baumgarten and Mr Himstedt under these contracts is subject to an annual increase in line with the increase in the cost of living in Germany.
Both Dr Baumgartens and Mr Himstedts pensions are principally provided for by a book reserve in RMC Central Europe GmbH and insurance.
In addition, RMC Central Europe has undertaken to each of Dr Baumgarten and Mr Himstedt that should there be a change in control of RMC Central Europe GmbH they will have the option of requesting that a lump sum up to the equivalent of the amount of the book reserve relating to their pension entitlement be transferred to a life insurance company nominated by them.
Dr Baumgarten has received a one-off payment of 15% of his pension entitlement 104,488 in consideration of his acceptance of the amendment to his pension contract.
Other than described in these notes, no Director or former Director has received augmentation to benefits which were not paid to all other pensioners or which could not be paid from the UK Fund.
The increase in and total accrued pension figures quoted above for the non-UK resident Directors have been translated using the appropriate exchange rates.
Under Part 3 of Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985 the information contained on pages 37 to 39 is subject to Audit.
The other parts of this Report are not subject to Audit.
Sir Keith Stuart Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2002 RMC Group 39
