CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT - CONTINUED The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional Quality and integrity of personnel investors and welcomes their participation.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards Annual General Meeting on 7 March 2003 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on page 56. and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
Management structure There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
Each executive director has been given faced by the Group.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisational date of approval of the annual report.
It is regularly reviewed by the Board and complies fully structure exists within which individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief Executive and the The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the executive directors.
The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local risks to which it is exposed, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not executive management teams.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports Group policies and guidelines.
its findings to the Board.
The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include discussions with management on Internal audit significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results from, internal and The Group utilises internal audit resource supplied by KPMG to review compliance with external audits.
procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous improvement of controls and The Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of its review of the risk assessment procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed process.
The Board then draws its collective conclusion as to the effectiveness of the up to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Budgetary process The key procedures, which the directors have established with a view to providing effective A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets of all operating internal control, are as follows: subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary Boards and overall budgets by the Group Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with relevant and Identification of business risks timely information required to monitor financial performance.
The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Such processes, which are reviewed and Investment appraisal improved as necessary, include strategic planning, the appointment of senior managers, the Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part regular monitoring of performance, and control over capital expenditure and acquisitions.
of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the financial statements.
Combined Code The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with Combined Code throughout the year with the exception of provisions A.
2.1 and reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and A.
3.2, being the existence of a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Board, the identification of a senior independent non-executive director and the requirement 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group that the majority of non-executive directors should be independent.
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
On 28 November 2002, the Board formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and has therefore complied with A.
Given that there is a By Order of the Board non-executive chairman, it is believed that identifying a separate senior independent director is not necessary.
By virtue of Mr T C W Ingram joining the Board as a non-executive director during the year, three out of five non-executive directors are independent under the Combined Code and therefore the Board has complied with A.
The M J Robinson directors consider that the Board composition gives due weight to the impartial input from Secretary and the experience of non-executive directors.
3 December 2002 Going concern The following statement has been included in accordance with the Listing Rules: Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
1 Overview 2 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review 16 Directors and Advisers 18 Financial Review 20 Directors Report 23 Corporate Governance Statement 26 Remuneration and Succession Committee Report 29 Independent Auditors Report 30 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 31 Consolidated Balance Sheet 32 Company Balance Sheet 33 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 34 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses p 24 34 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 35 Notes to the Accounts 56 Notice of Meeting 57 Financial Calendar p 25 REMUNERATION AND SUCCESSION COMMITTEE REPORT For the year ended 30 September 2002 Compliance Consistent with this policy, The Sage Group plc benefit packages awarded to directors The constitution and operation of the Remuneration and Succession Committee is in are intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of performance-related and noncompliance with the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
performance-related remuneration designed to incentivise directors, but not detract from the goals of Corporate Governance.
These benefits are linked to the overall performance Members of the Remuneration and Succession Committee of the Group but also recognise individual performance and responsibility.
The members of the Remuneration and Succession Committee during the year were: L C N Bury In addition to individual performance, reference is made to pay levels in companies of similar C J Constable size and to suggestions by appropriate external remuneration consultants.
Non-pensionable T C W Ingram appointed 15 March 2002 bonuses are paid to executive directors based upon their attainment of targets determined by the Remuneration and Succession Committee.
Details of directors emoluments are in Remuneration policy the table below.
The Groups policy on remuneration is to attract, retain and incentivise the best staff, recognising that they are key to the ongoing success of the business.
In forming this policy, the Remuneration and Succession Committee has given full consideration to the provisions of the Combined Code.
3 Retirement benefits were accruing to six directors 2001: six.
All pension contributions accrued under money purchase schemes.
4 Benefits in kind include the provision of a company car, car allowance, fuel and insurance.
