Remuneration Policy The principal objectives of the Remuneration Committee are to attract, retain and motivate high quality senior management with a competitive package of incentives and awards linked to performance and the interests of shareholders.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the Executive Directors are fairly rewarded taking into account all elements of their remuneration package in the light of the Groups performance.
Basic Salary The basic salary element is determined after evaluating the Executive Directors responsibilities and is based on the complexity, know-how, decision-making involved and the overall impact on the business.
Comparison is made with published external surveys that provide information to assist in any deliberations.
Annual Cash Bonuses Annual cash bonuses are payable at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as a percentage of basic salary dependent on corporate performance.
For the year ended 31 March 2002, Mr M C E Averill and Mr D J Downes earned a bonus of 25% and Mr J R Meredith earned a bonus of 57%.
Share Option Schemes The Committee believes that share ownership by employees encourages the matching of long-term interests between employees and shareholders.
All UK employees including Executive Directors, subject to certain service conditions, may participate in an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave scheme.
Senior executives are also able to participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
With effect from 26 July 2001 unapproved executive share options may be granted annually up to a market value of one and a third times basic salary in the preceding period of twelve months.
Under the terms of the Savings Related Share Option Schemes for employees, options may be granted up to August 2005 to acquire up to 10% of the issued equity share capital of the Company, including options granted under the Executive Share Option Schemes.
Options are granted at the higher of the nominal value and an amount determined by the Remuneration Committee being not less than 80% of the market value.
At 31 March 2002 options outstanding amounted to 2.3m ordinary shares see note 23 to the financial statements.
Under the terms of the Executive Share Option Schemes, options may be granted up to August 2005 to acquire up to 5% of the issued equity share capital of the Company.
The exercise of options granted under the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme, which is the only current scheme, is subject to a performance condition, achievement of which is a pre-requisite for exercise of options.
The condition is tested once only after a period of three years and if it is not achieved the relevant options will lapse.
Options granted after 26 July 2001 will only be exercisable if the Groups earnings per share, before taking into account exceptional and extraordinary items and goodwill amortisation for the three year measurement period, have increased by at least nine percentage points over the increase in the Retail Price Index for the same period.
The Remuneration Committee applied a different performance condition for options granted under the 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme prior to 26 July 2001.
These options may not be exercised except in the case of redundancy or death unless the growth in the Groups earnings per share over the period of three consecutive years after the date of grant equals or exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period plus six percentage points.
Options are granted at the higher of the nominal value or the market value.
At 31 March 2002 options outstanding amounted to 5.1m ordinary shares see note 23 to the financial statements.
Long Term Incentive Plan There is a proposal to introduce a Long Term Incentive Plan at the forthcoming AGM.
A seperate circular covering the details of the Plan is available to shareholders.
Pensions Executive Directors are eligible for membership of the Shanks Group Pension Scheme, which is a funded, dened benefit scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
Under the terms of this scheme the Executive Directors have: at retirement, and subject to length of service, a pension of up to two thirds of basic salary subject to Inland Revenue limits: an employee contribution of 5% of basic salary: a lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary: and a spouses pension on death.
Mr D J Downes is subject to the Inland Revenue cap on approved pensions benets and is provided with comparable unapproved benets for basic salary in excess of the cap via his Funded Unapproved Retirement Benets Scheme FURBS.
These unapproved benets are included in the gures shown below.
continued Directors Pension Benets Increase in Total accrued accrued pension Transfer value pension at during the year i of increase ii year end iii 000 per annum 000 000 per annum M C E Averill 14 183 134 D J Downes 788 51 J R Meredith 11 63 43 i The increase in accrued pension during the year represents the difference between the total accrued pension at the end of the year and the equivalent amount at the beginning of the year, adjusted to allow for ination during the year.
ii The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 less Directors contributions.
The calculation is based on the assumption that pensions will be paid from the earliest retirement age possible without the application of actuarial reduction factors i. e. 57 for Mr M C E Averill, 60 for Mr D J Downes and 62 for Mr J R Meredith.
iii The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service at the end of the year.
Directors Emoluments The following table shows a breakdown of the emoluments of the individual Directors, excluding pension contributions to the dened benefit schemes and potential gains on exercise of share options, for the period of time during which they were directors of the Group.
For the period following appointment as Director on 1 November 2000.
Mr G H Waddell retired on 25 April 2002. i Other emoluments includes such items as company cars, medical insurance, payments relating to FURBS and life assurance.
ii The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan and do not receive any pension contributions.
iii Mr R C Biffa was also a shareholder and director of Radstrong Limited.
The fees in respect of Mr Biffas services as a Director of the Group were paid to this company.
2002 Directors Service Contracts and Notice Periods Mr M C E Averill and Mr D J Downes have service contracts which require one years notice from the Director and two years notice from the Company.
Mr J R Meredith has a service contract which requires six months notice from the Director and one years notice from the Company, except, if a party acquires the entire issued share capital of the Company and such party terminates his appointment within twelve months of gaining control, the period of notice required from the Company increases to two years.
Mr R C Biffa, Mr I M Clubb, Mr P Delaunois and Mr R B Pointon do not have service contracts.
In the event of early termination, the Remuneration Committee will consider carefully what compensation should be paid taking into account the circumstances of the particular case.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that it would be reasonable to reduce the notice period already contained in the service contracts of Mr M C E Averill and Mr D J Downes.
However, the Committee will carefully consider the notice periods offered to new Executive Directors in light of the Best Practice Provisions of the Combined Code.
The Committee recognises that a two year notice period is not in accordance with the relevant provision of the Combined Code.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares and Share Options The Directors interests, all beneficial, in the ordinary 10p shares of the Company, including shares over which options have been granted under the terms of the Groups share option schemes, on 31 March 2002 and 31 March 2001 were as follows: Ordinary Shares Executive E and Savings Related S Share Options Options Options Date of Option Normal Exercise Dates 2002 2001 2002 2001 grant price p From To G H Waddell 201,000 201,000 M C E Averill 54,340 50,042 10,000 E 10.7.
continued Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares and Share Options continued i The option price is the price at which the option was granted.
The price is set by the Remuneration Committee but is not less than 80% Savings Related Scheme and 100% Executive Scheme of the average market price of the shares over the last three dealing days immediately preceding the date of the invitation to subscribe Savings Related Scheme or the date of grant Executive Scheme.
The performance conditions relating to the exercise of Executive Share Options are shown on page 23. ii The following options were exercised by serving Directors during the year: Options Closing Market Potential pre-tax Options Exercised price at date of gain at date of Type of Exercised Price exercise exercise Option Number Pence Pence 000 M C E Averill Executive 150,000 99 170 107 M C E Averill Savings Related 4,035 85.5 168 3 D J Downes Executive 100,000 99 170 71 181 The 10,000 options granted to Mr M C E Averill on 10 July 1991 at an option price of 2.706 lapsed on 10 July 2001. iii The highest closing mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company during the year was 194.5p and the lowest closing mid-market price during the year was 156.5p.
The mid-market price at the close of business on 31 March 2002 was 167.0p.
There have been no alterations in the above interests or options between 31 March 2002 and 29 May 2002.
Other Interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
