Directors Remuneration Report Unaudited information Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration The Board has a long established Remuneration Committee, which meets at least twice a year.
It is composed of the non-executive directors, who, in the opinion of the Board, are independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
Until 1 March 2003, the Committee consisted of Mr P H Blackburn Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr B Cottingham and Mr N C Paul.
From 1 March 2003, the composition of the Remuneration Committee is Mr P H Blackburn Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr B Cottingham, Mr D A Haxby and Mr L O Tench.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration principles of the Code, are set out below.
The Committees primary role is to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the Companys executive directors.
The Committee does not consider fees payable to non-executive directors, which is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executive, Mr D Williams, is consulted on the remuneration of executive directors and attends all meetings, except when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Company Secretary provides information to the Remuneration Committee and is in attendance at meetings.
The Committee takes independent professional advice, on an ad hoc basis, as required.
In December 2002 the Remuneration Committee appointed Watson Wyatt LLP to undertake a review of the remuneration of senior executives.
Watson Wyatt LLP did not provide any other services to the Group.
Statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration for 2003 and subsequent financial years Executive Directors The Companys policy for 2003 and subsequent years is to provide each executive director with a remuneration package which not only gives a fair degree of security by way of a base salary but also, through an annual bonus and long term incentive plan, gives a significant performance-related element.
In determining the remuneration packages of executive directors, the Remuneration Committee considers a number of factors including: lThe basic salaries and benefits available to executive directors of comparable companies: lThe importance of recruiting and retaining management of an appropriate calibre: and lLinking reward to the Companys performance.
The Companys policy on the duration of service contracts is for executive directors to have service contracts terminable by either party giving 12 months notice in writing.
If the Company was to terminate employment in lieu of the 12 months notice period, the executive director would be entitled to a termination payment in accordance with his service contract.
The main components of executive directors salaries are given below.
Most importance is attached by the Remuneration Committee to the basic salary of each executive director, which is not performance related.
Base salary and benefits Base salary and benefits are determined on an annual basis by the Committee based upon the recommendations of the Chief Executive and after a review of the individuals performance and market trends.
The Committee takes into account published remuneration information on comparable companies and salary policy within the rest of the Group.
Benefits include a company car and medical insurance premiums.
The value of benefits is not pensionable.
Annual bonus The annual performance related bonus provides executive directors with an incentive to achieve performance targets which are set at the beginning of a financial year.
The performance targets are predominantly based on profit before tax either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
In addition, for certain executives, additional targets are based on cash flows and reduction in gearing, again, either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
The maximum annual bonus that can be paid is 50% of basic salary.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
Pension schemes All executive directors are members of the Groups main contributory defined benefit pension scheme, which enables members to retire at age 60 with a maximum pension after 40 years pensionable service equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary.
Pensionable salary is basic salary, excluding bonuses.
Final pensionable salary is the average of the highest three consecutive pensionable salaries in the last ten years before retirement.
For service up to 31 July 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum compound.
After consultation with the active membership of the main scheme, during the year, certain changes were made to the contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future liabilities.
Consequently, for service from 1 August 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
On death before retirement, a lump sum equal to 4 times current salary is paid, together with a spouses pension of 50% of pensionable salary.
As part of this scheme, all executive directors are covered by permanent health insurance.
24 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Share option schemes 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme In 1997 this Scheme was superceded by the Long Term Incentive Plan and the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme.
Messrs. Williams and Chivers had awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2002.
There are no performance criteria attached to the exercise of these options.
They must be exercised between three and ten years of the date of grant.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office or employment with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Board.
Awards under this scheme are not pensionable.
Long Term Incentive Plan L-TIP Under the L-TIP, executives can be awarded an annual grant of nominal value share options up to a maximum value of 50% of base salary.
As set out on page 28 in the directors share options table under the heading Long Term Incentive Plan, Messrs. Williams, Chivers and Davies had awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2002, and the performance conditions which apply to them are given below.
At the end of the relevant period the Remuneration Committee assesses whether the performance conditions have been satisfied.
The L-TIP is exercisable between three and seven years from the date of grant.
Provided the individuals performance criteria are met the award would vest, as described above, if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award would vest if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
Between these two limits, the award would vest proportionately.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Board.
If the 6% minimum growth performance target is not met, the performance period is extended by one year and the minimum growth in the Groups earnings per share, over a consecutive four year period, is increased to 8% over the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The maximum for the full award to vest would be 13.33%.
The awards for Messrs. Williams and Davies would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
50% of the awards for Mr. Chivers would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
The remaining 50% of the shares under the award would vest in full if the actual profit before tax of the SIG Roofing Supplies business in aggregate for the consecutive three or four year period, referred to above, exceeds budgeted profit before tax in aggregate for the same period by 1%.
The above performance conditions were chosen because they are believed to be challenging and not only take account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also are an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
1997 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Under the ESOS, executives can be awarded an annual grant of share options at market price, provided that the total amount payable by him to exercise options under the ESOS or any other share option scheme of the Group excluding savings related schemes granted during the immediately preceding 10 years does not exceed 4 times base salary, bonus and benefits.
As set out on page 28 in the directors share options table under the heading 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme, Mr Davies had awards under this scheme, which had not vested at 31 December 2002, to which the performance condition in the next paragraph applies.
The ESOS is exercisable between three and ten years for the Inland Revenue approved scheme and three and seven years for the unapproved scheme from the date of grant.
The award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 6% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
The above performance condition was chosen because it is believed to be challenging and not only takes account of the need for long-term performance and commitment but also is an important means of aligning the interests of employees and shareholders.
Savings Related Schemes The Company operates within the UK a savings-related share option scheme which is open to all UK employees and is linked to a monthly savings contract over three and five year periods.
Options have been granted to scheme participants at 80% of the prevailing market price.
Similar arrangements have been introduced in the Republic of Ireland.
There are no performance conditions attached to the exercise of these options.
These options may be exercised within a fixed six month period three or five years from the date of grant.
The right to exercise options terminates if the employee ceases to be employed by the Group otherwise than by way of death, injury or disability, redundancy, retirement or Group reconstruction.
Exercise of options following cessation of employment by early retirement or other reason is permitted at the discretion of the Board provided that the date of cessation is at least three years after the date of grant.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 25 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-executive Directors For non-executive directors appointed after 31 December 2002, the Companys policy is that the appointment will be for an initial term of three years, unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
Non-executive directors will be expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period.
The executive directors are responsible for recommending to the Board the fees of non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors do not receive benefits from the Company.
They are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme or participate in any bonus or incentive scheme or any of the Companys share option schemes.
Directors contracts Non-executive directors, who held office at 31 December 2002, were appointed for an initial term of three years.
Their appointment is subject to a rolling twelve months notice on either side.
In the event of a merger or take-over, their services may be terminated by the payment of 12 months remuneration, at their current rate, in lieu of notice.
The executive directors, who held office at 31 December 2002, have service contracts for a continuous term to retirement age providing for a rolling 12 months notice period in writing by either party.
The service contract for Mr Williams, which is dated 7 May 2002, terminates automatically on his reaching the age of 60.
The Company can terminate his employment forthwith in lieu of a 12 month notice period or any unexpired portion thereof by paying to him an amount equal to his basic salary for such period and an amount in lieu of bonus which he would have received had he remained employed during the notice period and providing him with all benefits to which he is entitled, with the exception of his company car.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which he may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
The service contracts for Messrs. Chivers and Davies, which are dated 1 January 1995 and 1 August 2002 respectively, terminate automatically on their reaching the age of 65.
The Company can discharge any obligation in relation to the unexpired portion of their notice period or any notice required to be given under their service contracts by making a payment in lieu thereof subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which the executive may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
Mr Prust, who resigned on 15 October 2002, had a continuous service contract to retirement age providing for a maximum of two years notice in writing by either party.
In the event of a merger or take-over, his services could have been terminated by either party and he would have been entitled on termination to compensation, without deduction for mitigation, equivalent to two and a half times his salary, annual bonus and contractual benefits.
The Remuneration Committee considered these arrangements to be reasonable having regard to the length of his service with the Company, the reduction from the original four years rolling service contract to the above terms and the fide-motivating effect of a further reduction.
Mr Prust has until 14 April 2003 to exercise his awards under the Long Term Investment Plan and Savings Related Schemes.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys three month moving average Total Shareholder Return TSR performance, compared with the performance of the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index, also measured by TSR, over the 5 year period ended 31 December 2002.
This index has been selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies comprising the FTSE Construction & Buildings Material Index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected by similar commercial and economic factors.
Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 January 1998 to 31 December 2002 3 month moving average 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 01 Jan 1998 31 Dec 1998 31 Dec 1999 31 Dec 2000 31 Dec 2001 31 Dec 2002 SIG plc FTSE Construction and Building Materials Index 26 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 TSR Rebased Index 100 at 1 January 1998 Audited information Directors emoluments The emoluments of the individual directors were as follows: Performance Permanent 2002 2001 Salary related disability Total Total and fees bonus payment Benefits emoluments emoluments 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive D Williams 274 - - 6 280 254 M J Chivers 133 60 - 10 203 164 G W Davies 64 - - 5 69 - F C Prust 129 - 380 16 525 339 Non-executive B Cottingham Chairman 92 - - - 92 86 P H Blackburn 31 - - 31 15 N C Paul 31 - - - 31 15 754 60 380 37 1,231 873 There were no expense allowance or compensation for loss of office payments.
The information on emoluments for Mr Davies is for the period from his date of appointment as a director.
The salaries of Messrs. Williams, Chivers and Davies include additional payments of 14,000, 8,000 and 8,000 respectively following their agreement during the year to changes in the future pension scheme benefits and contribution rates.
The permanent disability payment made to Mr Prust was recovered in full from the insurer.
In addition, 73,000 in respect of Mr Prusts salary for the period 25 February 2002 to 30 June 2002 was recovered from the insurer.
Benefits relate to the estimated value of the provision of a company car and medical insurance premiums.
There were no sums paid to third parties in respect of the services of any director.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the executive directors.
Directors pensions The following directors had retirement benefits accruing under the Companys main contributory defined benefit scheme in respect of qualifying services during the year: Transfer Transfer Increase value of Accrued Transfer value at Contributions Transfer value in accrued increase in benefits at value at 1 January made by increase after Increase benefits accrued 31 December 31 December 2002 or Executive to deducting in accrued net of benefits net 2002 or date 2002 or date date of the scheme Executive benefits inflation of inflation of cessation of cessation appointment in the year contributions 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s D Williams 14 14 175 76 1,199 817 14 368 M J Chivers 7 7 79 45 769 553 8 208 G W Davies 2 2 10 12 102 85 3 14 F C Prust 9 8 172 80 1,774 1,285 6 483 The Company contributed 152,000 2001: 48,000 to a money purchase scheme in respect of Mr Prusts qualifying services during the year.
The transfer values disclosed above are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes - Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
They do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director, but instead represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Members of the above scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither such contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 27 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors share options Messrs. Cottingham, Blackburn and Paul, as non-executive directors, did not hold or have granted any share options during the year.
No price has been paid for any awards of share options which were unexpired at any time in the financial year.
There was no variation made in the financial year in the terms and conditions of any of the above share options.
There are no performance criteria for the 1989 Executive Share Option Scheme or the Savings Related Schemes.
Mr. Prust has until 14 April 2003 to exercise his awards under the Long Term Investment Plan and Savings Related Schemes.
28 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 For Messrs. Williams and Davies awards under the Long Term Investment Plan would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
If the minimum performance target is not met over the three year performance period, the performance period is extended by one year only and the performance target is increased proportionately.
For Mr Chivers 50% of the award under the Long Term Investment Plan would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
Between these two limits, 50% of the award would vest proportionately.
Awards under the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme Plan for Mr Davies would vest in full if, over a consecutive three year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 6% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
There was no variation made in the financial year in the performance criteria summarised above.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2002 was 172.5p and the range during 2002 was 157.5p to 342p.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 10 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: P H Blackburn, Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 29
