Directors remuneration report Five Year TSR Performance The Directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the relevant requirements TSR % of the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The disclosures contained in this 140 report that are specified for audit by the FSA are covered in the scope of the 120 Independent auditors report on page 41.
A resolution to approve the report 100 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
80 The Company has complied throughout the period with the provisions of the 60 Code of Best Practice set out in the Listing Rules of the FSA, as disclosed in the 40 Companys corporate governance statements, and has applied the Principles of 20 Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as described below.
8.2% 7.6% 0 Remuneration Committee -20 The non-executive Directors who served on the Committee during the period -40 were Mr Peter E Kingston Chairman, Mr Rui C fide Sousa and Mr Roger W -60 Brittain.
All members are independent of management and free from any -80 conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement -100 in running the Companys business.
No member has any personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters delegated to the Committee.
Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec No Director plays a role in deciding his own remuneration.
97 98 99 00 01 02 SOCO annual The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the full Board FTSE Oil & Gas annual a broad remuneration policy and for setting the total remuneration packages of SOCO cumulative the executive Directors and senior management within the context of that policy.
FTSE Oil & Gas cumulative Their recommendations and decisions are to be developed in full consideration of the Code of Best Practice and with regard to institutional guidelines.
The performance graph sets out SOCOs annual and cumulative total shareholder In discharging its duties during the year, the Committee consulted with the return TSR performance over the past other non-executive Directors, and received full Board approval for its proposals.
The FTSE Oil & Gas Index performance is similarly set out, being a The Committee consulted with the Chief Executive on its proposals for the other broad market index which is sector specific.
executive Director and senior management, and received administrative assistance from the Company Secretary.
Deloitte & Touche was appointed by the Committee as advisors and provided advice on executive remuneration, relevant current market practice and developments in best practice guidance.
The original appointment of advisors resulted from a tender process, and alternate advisors are considered from time to time.
Deloitte & Touche also provided audit and tax services to the Group, which are set out in more detail in Note 6 to the accounts.
Their terms of reference restrict certain services in order to maintain auditor independence.
Remuneration policy The policies described in this report have been applied throughout 2002.
Whilst these policies are envisaged to be consistently applied in the following and subsequent years, the Committee has an ongoing process for reviewing its policies against evolving market practice and relevant guidance.
The Committee would only expect to implement any proposed policy change following a consultation, review and approval process deemed appropriate to the proposed change.
Executive Directors The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified and motivated executive management is vital to the effective management of the Companys international portfolio and the successful execution of its stated strategy of building shareholder value, as set out opposite page 1.
It is the Committees objective to attract and retain high calibre executives through remuneration which is competitive with that offered in comparable businesses and is appropriate to those individuals positions, experience and value to the Company.
The Committee aims to design remuneration packages with a 35 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Directors remuneration report continued significant short and long term performance related element linking appropriate but significantly greater rewards for greater achievements.
The expected value and structure of the Directors packages are benchmarked to competitive market ranges, taking into consideration the Groups size and complexity, and positioned within those ranges considering the Directors critical value to the Company and demonstrated performance over time.
It is the Committees policy to review all aspects of remuneration on an annual basis and with respect to individual and corporate performance during the year.
These reviews are normally conducted in December.
Package components Executive remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary and eligibility to receive an annual performance based cash bonus and annual awards under incentive plans approved by shareholders and designed to provide appropriate longer term incentive opportunities.
Assuming performance levels in the middle of the target range, the packages are structured to deliver 60% of the expected value of the Directors total compensation opportunity from performance related elements, increasing to 80% at exceptional performance levels.
Executive Directors are eligible for additional benefits including money purchase pension scheme contributions, a permanent health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel benefits and car benefits.
Basic salary Basic salary is fixed at appointment or in relation to changes in responsibility, and is reviewed annually.
Particular care is given in fixing the appropriate salary level considering that cash bonus and incentive plan awards are generally set as a fraction or multiple of basic salary.
Annual reviews take into consideration advice from remuneration consultants regarding relevant current market practice for salary levels and salary increases, as well as demonstrated performance.
Basic salary is the only element of a Directors pay which is pensionable.
Bonus An executive Directors discretionary annual cash bonus is targeted to provide a balance between basic salary and the performance related element of annual cash remuneration.
The annual cash bonus will be awarded based on individual and corporate achievements during the year towards goals based on the Companys strategic plan.
Bonus awards are considered in two levels, wherein expected performance will result in awards in the middle of a target range of up to 50%, with a stretch level of up to 100% for exceptional performance.
The stretch level was utilised for awards to Directors in 2002 in light of the significance of the Companys exploration success in Vietnam.
Incentive plans The Committee currently operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and a share option scheme the Plans.
The participants and the level of awards granted, which is discretionary, will be set in consideration of both corporate and individual performance and will take into account awards made under both Plans.
Awards under the Plans are subject to limits on individual participation whereby the market value, as measured at the date of grant, of shares subject to awards made in any financial year will not exceed 200% of the executives total earnings in that year, except in exceptional circumstances on appointment.
The aggregate number of new issue shares which may be subject to award under the Plans shall not exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
An employee benefit trust currently holds sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all shares conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as more fully described in Note 14 to the accounts.
36 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 At the date of grant of an award, the Committee will set appropriate performance criteria which must be achieved before the award can be exercised or vest.
Award levels will take into account the nature of performance targets to ensure that expected total compensation opportunity at assumed levels of share price growth is appropriate in the prevailing market.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys relative total shareholder return TSR provides the primary basis for determining the value generated for shareholders, and is also the primary indicator of the Companys overall corporate performance.
Accordingly, performance targets for awards under the Plans since their approvals have been based on the Companys relative TSR performance over a three year period within a range of comparator companies in the oil exploration and production sector.
LTIP Based on independent benchmarking carried out in 2000, the Committee determined that incentive opportunities available to the Companys executives were not competitive with sector comparisons.
The Directors proposed a LTIP to provide greater flexibility in maintaining the competitiveness of executives remuneration and enabling a more significant proportion to be linked to performance.
The proposed LTIP was set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2000 and, following consultation with the Association of British Insurers and the Companys major institutional shareholders, was approved by shareholders at the May 2001 AGM.
LTIP awards are considered in the course of the annual review, which is intended to put in place an opportunity for regular annual vesting based on performance targets achieved over successive three year periods.
Annual awards were made in December 2002 and 2001.
The initial awards were deferred from December 2000 to May 2001 pending approval of the LTIP.
Whilst this resulted in two awards in the same financial year, Plan limits were not exceeded.
Shares awarded under the Plan are subject to performance criteria measurable on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
If the TSR ranking exceeds the median, the award will become exercisable as to 40% of the shares subject to award, with proportionally greater vesting for each higher ranking position up to 100% for ranking 1st or 2nd in the comparator group.
The comparator group comprises Aminex, Cairn Energy, Dana Petroleum, Dragon Oil, Paladin Resources, Premier Oil, SOCO, Tullow Oil, Venture Production having replaced Enterprise Oil and Ramco Energy having replaced Bula Resources.
The Committee may give consideration, in the light of any exceptional circumstances during a relevant three year period, whether the recorded TSR is consistent with the achievement of actual underlying financial and operational performance which, for the awards to date, shall primarily be assessed, on the basis of appropriate external advice, in terms of the additions to and the management and quality of the Groups oil and gas reserves in view of goals set by the Board.
Option scheme The Committee currently operates one share option scheme, being the SOCO 1997 Company Share Option Plan.
No options have been granted to Directors since introduction of the LTIP.
Directors held unvested options at the beginning of 2002 subject to performance criteria measurable on or after the third anniversary of the date of grant.
If the Companys TSR ranking exceeded the median, 60% of the options would vest and become exercisable with proportionally greater vesting for each higher ranking position up to 100% for ranking in the upper third of the comparator group.
The group comprised Aminex, Cairn Energy, Dana Petroleum, Dragon, JKX Oil & Gas, Paladin Resources, Premier Oil, Ramco Energy, Sibir Energy, SOCO, Tullow Oil, and 37 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Directors remuneration report continued four companies which ceased trading prior to the end of the measurement period.
The Company ranked in first position as at the third anniversary of the date of grant, under a re-investment methodology previously adopted by the Committee as well as under a variety of alternative methods.
Accordingly, the options have been determined to be 100% vested and exercisable.
Measurement of the Companys relative TSR performance is carried out from external data sources by the Committees remuneration advisors to ensure its independence.
The Directors hold share options under the SOCO-sub Unapproved Company Share Option Plan which were granted prior to the listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange.
No additional grants are available under the plan.
Other policies With prior approval of the Board, executive Directors are allowed to accept non-executive appointments to other boards and to retain the associated directors fees.
Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole, based on outside advice and review of current practices in other companies, and within the aggregate limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association and approved by shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for participation in the Companys incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Directors contracts Executive Directors contracts are for an indefinite period and are terminable by either party on giving one years notice which may be satisfied with a payment in lieu of notice.
The non-executive Directors appointments are terminable at the will of the parties but are envisaged to establish an initial term of three years after which they will be reviewed annually.
The dates of the Directors service contracts, which may not coincide with their appointment, are set out in the Directors report on page 30.
38 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002 Audited information Directors emoluments Fees Basic Benefits Annual Total Total 1 salary in kind bonus 2002 2001 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive Director E Story 310 19 310 639 494 R Cagle 217 22 163 402 349 Non-executive Director P Maugein 55 55 55 2 P Kingston 55 55 55 O Barbaroux 25 25 25 R Brittain 25 25 25 R Cathery 25 25 13 E Contini 25 25 J Norton 25 25 25 J Snyder 25 25 25 R fide Sousa 25 25 25 Aggregate emoluments 812 41 473 1,326 1,091 1 Benefits include a permanent health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel benefits and car benefits.
2 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates under an agreement to provide the Company with the services of Mr Kingston.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of office as Director during the year.
2 Based on TSR performance, all options conditionally exercisable under the 1997 Company Share Plan have been determined to be fully vested and 100% exercisable.
Additional details regarding the plan are set out within this report, including performance criteria measured for those options becoming exercisable during the year.
3 These conditional awards are in the form of a nil price option to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
To reduce a competitive shortfall identified in 2000, a special deferred bonus was awarded and an LTIP was proposed.
Additional details regarding the LTIP are set out within this report.
The special deferred bonus, which was awarded at levels consistent with performance over the relevant period, was made in the form of SOCO shares in order to align the interests of the recipients with those of the shareholders, vesting in December 2002 subject to continued employment.
The deferred bonus and the proposed LTIP were set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2000 prior to seeking shareholder approval of the LTIP.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2002 was 3.915 and the range during the year to 31 December 2002 was 1.760 to 4.020.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Kingston Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 40 SOCO International plc Annual Report 2002
