TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 33 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 which set out new requirements for the disclosure of Directors Remuneration.
The report is also prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys Members on the auditable part of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the part of the report that has been subject to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report is therefore divided into separate sections to disclose the audited and unaudited information.
As in 2002, a resolution to approve the Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy will be put before the Companys Members at the Annual General Meeting.
Details of the Resolutions are listed in the Notice of AGM enclosed with this Report.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee Composition and Terms of Reference The members of the Remuneration Committee consist solely of the Non-Executive Directors, namely Mr P. Plunkett Chairman, Mr R. Courtney, Mr E. Maleki, Mr S. McTiernan and Ms C. Spottiswoode.
The terms of reference for the Committee are to determine the Executive Directors remuneration packages, service agreements and employment conditions.
The Committee consults with leading independent firms for advice on remuneration and benefits matters when necessary.
The Committee was assisted during the year by Mr A. Heavey Chief Executive, Mr T. Hickey Finance Director and Company Secretary, Ms G. Baines, Group Human Resources Manager and the Curzon Partnership Human Resources Consultants.
Remuneration Policy The Groups policy is to maintain levels of remuneration so as to attract, motivate and retain Directors of the highest calibre who can contribute their experience and independent views to the Groups operations.
Executive Directors must be properly rewarded and motivated to perform in the best interests of shareholders.
The elements of the remuneration package for Executive Directors are basic salary and benefits, pensions and participation in the Companys share option scheme.
It is Company policy to grant options to key management to encourage identification with shareholders interests.
The Committee takes into account the remuneration practices of other international companies of similar size and other companies operating in the FTSE Oil and Gas Sector.
Executive Directors Remuneration The basic salaries of Executive Directors are reviewed annually with regard to personal performance, Company performance, changes in responsibilities and competitive market practices.
Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of each financial year of the Company.
Under such a scheme, bonuses are payable to all Executive Directors conditional on personal performance, and the achievement of certain corporate targets set by the Company related to reserve replacement and performance benchmarked against the FTSE 250 and certain peer group companies to be measured over the financial year.
The bonus payable to an Executive Director in respect of any financial year may not ordinarily exceed 50% of the Directors basic salary at the end of such financial year this may be increased to 100% in exceptional circumstances and at the absolute discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
34 TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The Executive Directors do not participate in the Company Pension Scheme, however, each Executive Director is entitled to receive a payment of 10% of his basic salary into a private pension scheme with the exception of Mr J. Lander who receives a 20% contribution to his pension scheme, as well as 30 days holidays per year and permanent health insurance, private medical insurance and life assurance benefits.
The Group also reimburses the Executive Directors in respect of all expenses reasonably incurred by them in the proper performance of their duties.
Mr A. Heavey and Mr J. Lander each have a benefit in respect of the provision of a company car.
Non-Executive Directors Fees The Board of Directors sets the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and the fees paid are set on a level which will attract persons with the necessary experience and ability to make a significant contribution to the Companys activities.
Each Non-Executive Director receives an annual fee plus an allowance for acting as Chairman of any Committee.
Each Non-Executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and other expenses.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys Share Option Scheme and are not eligible to join the Companys Pension Scheme, however Mr Plunkett and Mr Maleki have been granted 200,000 and 100,000 share options respectively in consideration for the provision of consultancy services to Tullow Oil plc, the Irish subsidary of the Company.
Performance Graph The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the presentation of a graph of Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to an appropriate comparator index over a five-year period.
For Tullow, TSR is represented by share price performance as no dividends were declared or paid during the period.
Tullow has been a member of the FTSE 250 Index since September 2001 and as this index is also used as a comparator for the share option scheme and remuneration in general, the Directors believe it represents the most appropriate benchmark.
The graphs below show Tullows TSR over the five-year period from January 1998 to December 2002 and the ten-year period from January 1993 to December 2002.
In each case the relevant indices are set to 100 at the beginning of the period.
200 150 100 50 0 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Year Tullow Oil FTSE 250 Total Shareholder Return TULLOW OIL PLC annual report and accounts 2002 35 1500 1200 900 600 300 0 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Year Tullow Oil FTSE 250 Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment Each Executive Director entered into a service agreement with the Company on 2nd September 2002.
Each service agreement is on similar terms.
Mr A. Heavey and Mr M. ODonoghue also entered into service agreements with Tullow Oil International on 16th September 2002 on similar terms to their service agreements with the Company.
The terms of each of these service contracts is not fixed, although each Executive Director is required under his service agreement to retire from service upon attaining the age of 65.
Each agreement is terminable by the Director on six months notice and by the Company on twelve months notice.
There are no arrangements under which any Executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his service agreement in accordance with these notice periods.
Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the entitlement of the Director to participate in businesses competing with those of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any senior employees of the Group for a period of six months after the termination of his employment.
Each Non-Executive Director is engaged by the Company under the terms of a letter of appointment.
Subject to the requirement to retire by rotation under the Articles of Association, the appointments are for the period to 28th February 2005 in the case of Ms C. Spottiswoode and Mr S. McTiernan and to 31st December 2005 in respect of the other Non-Executive Directors.
In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Directors and the Board.
There are no arrangements under which any Non-Executive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of their appointment.
Directors Loan Account The Group has provided a Directors loan to Mr A. Heavey, the Groups Chief Executive.
This loan, which at 31st December 2002 amounted to US$90,221, is unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Mr Heavey has undertaken to repay the loan in full during 2003.
Other than this there are no loans granted or guarantees provided by Tullow Oil plc or any member of the Group to any Director or for the benefit of any Director.
Material Contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Mr J. Lander was appointed Director on 22nd March 2001 and his 2001 remuneration reflects payments from that date.
Mr S. McTiernan and Ms C. Spottiswoode were appointed Directors with effect from 1st March 2002 and their remuneration reflects payments from that date.
On 16th April 2002, Mr R. Courtney exercised options in respect of 60,764 ordinary shares at a price of 53p making a gain of 33,724.
The market price of Tullow Oil plc shares on that date was 108.5p.
There was no other exercise of options during 2002 or to the date of this report by any Director.
Options are granted either in Sterling or Euro and the exercise prices above reflect the actual exercise price for those granted in Sterling and a translated amount for those granted in Euro.
Options must be exercised in the currency in which the grant was made.
In general, options granted under the Tullow Oil plc 1998 and 2000 Executive Share Option Schemes may be exercised no sooner than three years and no longer than ten years after grant date.
During 2002, the highest mid market price of the Companys shares was 112.5p and the lowest was 76.5p.
P. Plunkett Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9th May 2003
