How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued Policy on remuneration of executive directors estimating the impact of vesting conditions, performanceand senior executives related elements of competitor remuneration are shown The following policy applies for the financial year 2003 at the higher of the threshold value at which awards and, subject to review, for future years.
The remuneration begin to pay out for a minimum performance or 50% of executive directors and senior executives of the of the maximum.
Groups operating companies and the parent company This analysis considers all awards made in respect of is reviewed each year by the committee.
2001 and 2002 but excludes the potential value from the The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate large one-off option award made by Omnicom in 2001 the best available talent, so that it can meet client and which is not shown.
However, in respect of WPP, the share owner objectives.
In particular, the committee has attributable value assuming a vesting at median of Sir regard to the levels of compensation in the Group and Martin Sorrells LEAP award made in 1999 is included.
specific businesses with which the Group companies No adjustment has been made to reflect the significant compete and is also sensitive to compensation levels in capital investment that is required to participate in this plan.
To implement the Companys policy, executive Importance is placed on practices elsewhere in the remuneration is designed to be consistent with the global communications services sector.
The nature of following principles: nthis sector means that practice is driven by the executive total remuneration opportunities are designed remuneration market in the US.
The committee pays to be fully competitive in the relevant market: nparticularly close attention to the structure of all remuneration packages have a very significant remuneration, and the proportion which is performance-related variable element: nperformance-related, as well as to the proportions linked incentives are based on meeting specific, to shortand long-term performance.
As an illustration, measurable and stretching performance the chart below using data from the most recently objectives, and align executive rewards available filings for those companies summarises with creating value for our share owners: npractice for chief executive officers in the Companys the total remuneration program includes significant two largest competitors: Omnicom and IPG.
This is opportunities to acquire WPP stock, consistent with compared with that role in the Company.
the Group strategy of co-investment and building a strong ownership culture.
Comparison of top full-time executive fixed and The Company believes that a significant proportion variable remuneration in $m of remuneration for executive directors and senior 20 Co-investment plan Perfomance Share Unit Annual Bonus executives should be delivered through performanceOption Grants Restricted Stock Salary related elements, such as the annual bonus awards 15 and stock-based incentive awards, as referred to below.
For target performance the committee would expect at least 60% of an executive directors remuneration 10 to be performance-related.
The Company has required senior executives 5 to achieve stock ownership goals for many years, as a result of which awards of stock options vary 0 depending on whether individuals achieve and maintain 2002 2001 2002 2001 specific levels of ownership of WPP stock.
Estimated average va ue and WPP package mix of tota compensation In determining the remuneration, stock incentive for IPG and Omnicom arrangements and benefits for all of the current The chart provides a comparison of the potential value executive directors, the Board accepted the proposals of Sir Martin Sorrells total remuneration against the and recommendations of the Compensation committee benchmark set by CEO remuneration at IPG and without change.
Omnicom in the financial years 2001 and 2002.
Further, it demonstrates the relative importance of variable and Elements of executive remuneration performance-related elements of remuneration.
The principal elements of executive remuneration The values represent WPPs analysis of the data for the current year and, subject to review, for future disclosed by IPG and Omnicom in the accounting years, comprise the following: nperiods ended 31 December 2001 and 2002.
All shareBase salaries fixed : nbased payments are valued assuming annual share price Annual incentives variable : ngrowth of 10% over a five-year term.
For the purposes of Long-term incentives variable : and 84 WPP 2002 How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued nnPension, life assurance, health and disability staff costs to revenue or gross margin: nand other benefits fixed.
conducting talent reviews, succession planning and other key strategic goals, established annually.
Base salary In each case, the annual incentive objectives relate The salary is based on individual performance and by to the participants own operating company, division, reference to the market median for similar positions in client or functional responsibility.
directly comparable companies as well as taking into Each executives annual incentive opportunity is defined account comprehensive market survey information.
at a target level for the full achievement of objectives.
In the case of the parent company, this includes other Higher awards may be paid for outstanding performance global communication services companies such as IPG in excess of target.
The target level for the Group chief and Omnicom.
For J. Walter Thompson Company, executive is 100% of base fee salary and the maximum Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and Young & Rubicam level is 200%.
For other Group executive directors the Inc, the competitive market includes other major target is 50% of base salary and the maximum is 75%.
For each of the Those eligible to receive an annual performance bonus, other operating companies in the Group, a comparable may, subject to satisfying specific conditions, elect to definition of business competitors is used to establish defer their bonus for four years, converting it into an competitive median salaries.
Individual salary levels award of shares.
The value of this share award is equal are set within a range of 15% above or below the to 125% of the bonus that would otherwise have been competitive median, taking a number of relevant factors received earlier had it been taken in cash.
into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility Long-term incentives and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Long-term incentives, including stock awards, comprise Salary levels for executives are reviewed at least every a significant element of total remuneration for senior 18 or 24 months, depending on the level of base salary.
executives in the parent company and each operating Executive salary adjustments are made by the committee company.
During 2002, approximately 1,500 of those following consultation where appropriate with the Group executives participated in some form of performancechief executive, the Group chief talent officer and the related long-term incentive program.
chief executive officer of each operating company.
The committee reviews each year the operation of the Groups long-term incentive programs to ensure Annual performance bonus that the performance measures and levels of reward The annual performance bonus is paid under plans are appropriate and competitive.
established for each operating company and for executives Any long-term incentive program in which an of the parent company.
Challenging performance goals executive director is entitled to participate is subject are established and these must be achieved before any to performance conditions with the exception of one bonus becomes payable.
deferred share award made to Beth Axelrod on her In the case of the Group chief executive and other appointment as Group chief talent officer but prior to parent company directors and executives, the total her appointment to the Board as referred to on page 89. amount of annual performance bonus payable is based on the achievement of Group operating profit and Parent company : Performance Share Plan PSP operating cash flow targets.
Additional targets may also Annual grants of WPP performance shares are made be imposed on the awards to individual directors and to all executive directors see the table on page 81 executives.
These are determined by the Compensation and other senior executives in the parent company.
committee following detailed analysis with the Group For awards currently outstanding, the value of each chief executive and the Group chief talent officer.
In the performance share is equivalent to one WPP share case of each operating company, operating profit, and the number of shares vesting over each three-year operating profit margin targets and staff cost ratios are performance period is dependent on the growth of agreed each year with the Group chief executive and WPPs total share owner return TSR relative to the approved by the committee.
growth of TSR of a comparator group of major publicly Within the limits of annual incentive funds available traded marketing services companies on the basis that in respect of each operating company, individual awards this is the best indicator of value creation for share are paid on the basis of achievements against individual owners.
At median performance, 50% of the performance objectives, encompassing key strategic and performance shares vest, with higher percentages financial performance criteria, including: vesting for superior performance up to 100% if WPP noperating profit: ranks at least equal to the second ranking peer company.
nprofit margin: The peer companies in respect of awards made in 2002 WPP 2002 85 How were rewarded Compensation committee report on behalf of the Board continued comprise Aegis, Cordiant, Grey Global, Havas Advertising, WPP Group: Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan LEAP IPG, Omnicom, Publicis and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
LEAP is an incentive plan introduced in 1999 to reward Over the 2000-2002 performance period, WPPs superior performance relative to WPPs peer companies, performance ranked fourth among the peer group to align the interests of executive directors and key companies.
Contingent grants of performance shares executives with those of share owners through significant for the 2001-2003 and 2002-2004 periods range from personal investment and ownership of stock and 25% to 100% of base salary.
to ensure competitive total rewards.
Awards made to executive directors are set out on page 82.
Operating companies: Long-term incentive plans Under LEAP, participants must commit WPP shares Senior executives of most Group operating companies investment shares, valued at not less than their annual participate in their respective companys long-term earnings, at the time of acquisition, with a maximum of incentive plans, which historically have provided awards no more than two-thirds being satisfied by a participants in cash and restricted WPP stock based on the existing holding of WPP shares, in order to have the achievement of three-year financial performance targets.
opportunity to earn additional WPP shares matching These plans operate on a rolling three-year basis with shares.
The investment shares must be committed for awards paid in March 2003 under the 2000-2002 longa five-year period investment period.
The number of term incentive plans.
The value of payments earned by matching shares which a participant may receive at the executives over each performance period is based on the end of the investment period depends on the performance achievement of targeted improvements in the following of the Company measured over five financial years.
The performance measures: number of matching shares is calculated based on the TSR naverage operating profit or profit before tax: and achieved by the Company relative to other major publicly naverage operating margin.
traded marketing services companies on the basis that Historically the stock portion of each payment has this is the best indicator of value creation for share owners.
Restrictions on the sale of this stock are The comparator group comprises those companies lifted after one year following the end of the relevant specified on page 82.
Where a company has delisted performance period in respect of half of the stock it is not included in the comparator group for further and after two years for the balance, provided that awards.
For the purposes of measuring TSR performance the executive remains employed in the Group.
where a company has delisted during a performance With effect from 2003 it is proposed that operating period, the committee deem this to be a disposal and companies long-term incentive plans will provide awards the proceeds are treated as being reinvested in the stock to be satisfied wholly in WPP stock to be paid in the of the remaining companies.
March following the end of the three-year financial The maximum number of matching shares, other performance period, with no subsequent restriction than in respect of a part of the supplementary award on sale.
to Paul Richardson see note 3 on page 82 and certain participants who are executives of Young & Rubicam Executive Stock Option Plan and Inc, is five for every investment share, for which the Worldwide Ownership Plan Company must rank first or second over the performance The Executive Stock Option Plan has been used annually period.
If the Companys performance is below the since its adoption in 1996 to make option grants to median of the comparator group half a matching share members of the WPP Group Leaders, Partners and the will vest for every investment share held throughout the High Potential Group as well as key employees of the investment period, in recognition of a participants parent company, but excluding parent company maintenance of their personal investment throughout executive directors and the Group chief executive.
In 1997 the Company broadened stock option Certain executives of Young & Rubicam Inc participation by introducing the Worldwide Ownership participate in LEAP over a four-year time period Plan for all employees other than those participating in and their entitlement to matching shares has been other option programs of 100%-owned Group companies pro-rated so that they are entitled to only four-fifths with at least two years service, in order to develop a of the number of matching shares to which the other stronger ownership culture.
Since its adoption, grants LEAP participants may become entitled.
Consequently have been made annually under this plan and as at the maximum number of matching shares to which 14 May 2003 options under this plan had been granted these executives of Young & Rubicam Inc may become to approximately 39,000 employees for over 17.8 million entitled to is four as opposed to five.
ordinary shares of the Company.
Further details of On a change of control, matching shares may be employee share ownership are set out in the section received based on the Companys performance to that on Corporate Social Responsibility on page 77. date.
The Compensation committee will also consider, 86 WPP 2002
