corporate governance report Control environment The following key elements and procedures were established with a view to providing an effective internal control framework: Organisational structure A well-defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority has been established.
The way the Group conducts its business, expectations of management and key accountabilities are embodied in the Groups policies, its Statement of Business Principles and the Board Level Authority Limits.
The Group operates a decentralised management model with appropriate authority delegated to Commodity Business Unit Boards for the Coal, Alloys and Zinc businesses.
The Business Units are responsible for profitability to the level of earnings before interest and taxation EBIT.
The Board sets overall policy and delegates the authority to implement that policy to its commodity business units and supporting functions.
Group policies are approved by the Executive Committee for application across the whole Group.
Risk identification and evaluation The following ongoing process was introduced for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The output of the process has been reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
A value driven Group risk management policy was introduced with the stated objective of developing, implementing and maintaining a risk management programme to assist the Group in meeting all of its goals.
A process of control and risk self assessment has been introduced in order to establish a common understanding and language relating to risk and provide a standard framework for assessing and reporting risks and the effectiveness of related controls throughout the Group.
Through the self-assessment process, each business unit and the head office identified its major risks and associated internal controls and accountabilities and recorded these in comprehensive risk registers.
The process was thorough and robust and has been integrated with business planning.
Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk profile and actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported to the Executive Committee and the Board in the monthly management reports.
Information and financial reporting systems Financial reporting to the Executive Committee and the Board has been enhanced during the year and the Groups comprehensive planning and financial reporting procedures include detailed operational budgets for the year ahead and a three-year plan, which is revised annually.
The Board reviews and approves the budget and plan.
Plans and budgets are prepared and updated on the basis of consistent economic assumptions determined by the Group Finance Function.
Performance is monitored and relevant action taken throughout the year through the monthly reporting of key performance indicators, updated forecasts for the year together with information on the key risk areas.
Comprehensive monthly management reports on a divisional and consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for the year, are prepared and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Controller.
Detailed consolidated management accounts, together with an executive summary from the Chief Executive Officer, are circulated to all Directors on a monthly basis.
Investment appraisal A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written proposals are submitted for approval to the Executive Committee in accordance with Board delegated authority limits.
A standardised format is used that includes a detailed calculation of return on equity.
Reviews are carried out after the project is complete, and for some projects, during the construction period, to monitor progress against plan: major overruns are investigated.
Commercial, legal and financial due diligence work, using outside consultants, is undertaken in respect of acquisitions as appropriate.
64 Xstrata plc Treasury Committee A Treasury Committee has been established as a sub-Committee of the Executive Committee.
Its membership consists of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
The Committee sets Group policy relating to all aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and co-ordinates relationships with banks, rating agencies and other financial institutions.
The C ommittee monitors all significant treasury activities undertaken by Group companies and ensures compliance with Group policy.
The monthly report details the Group cash debt position, review of covenants, exposures and hedging.
Internal Audit A Group-wide internal audit function has been introduced utilising KPMG as outsourced service provider reporting to the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Risk-based internal audit plans covering the period to December 2003 have been approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit is an important element of the overall process by which the Executive Committee and the Board will obtain the assurance it requires that risks are being properly identified, managed and controlled.
Audit Committees The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out above.
In line with the commodity unit business model, subsidiary Audit Committees have been established for each of the major business units Coal, Alloys and Zinc.
The terms of reference of these Committees follow those of the Companys Audit Committee from which they obtain their delegated authority, meeting dates precede those of the Companys Audit Committee and reports on their deliberations and findings are presented to the Chairman of the Companys Audit Committee.
Review of effectiveness of the system of internal control The process by which the Board satisfies its obligation to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control is as follows: The Board delegates its responsibilities to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identified and assessed and the effectiveness of the system of internal control by considering the following: summary reports from the Commodity Business Unit Audit Committees on their reviews of business unit managements reports on key issues, risks and internal controls and the internal and external auditors reports the half-yearly reports from executive management on results of operations and key issues formal letters of representation from commodity business unit management to the Group Finance Director reports from internal audit and the external auditors relating to the system of internal control and discussions with management on actions being taken to address identified control weaknesses and problems.
At its regular meetings the Executive Committee reviews reports from the commodity business units and head office, comparing actual performance against target indicators and changes in key risks.
The executive Director responsible for the relevant area reports on the actions being taken in regard to any problem areas identified.
Finally, the Board considers reports from the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee during the year.
The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance that problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control through the monitoring process set out above and are not aware of any significant weakness or deficiency in the Groups system of internal control for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Xstrata plc 65 remuneration report Information not subject to audit Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Willy Strothotte and its other members are David Rough and Paul Hazen.
The Remuneration Committee, with the assistance of the Groups advisers, reviews the structure of remuneration for executive Directors on an on-going basis and has responsibility for the determination, within agreed terms of reference, of specific remuneration packages for the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and Heads of the major operating subsidiaries or divisions of the Company Executive Group, including pension rights, bonuses and any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee also has responsibility for determining grants of options and share awards under the Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The Committee met twice during the year.
The purpose and function of the Committee in future will not differ materially from this year.
The remuneration of non executive Directors will be considered by the Chairman and the executive Directors and will not be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
During 2002, the Remuneration Committee appointed the following advisers to provide services in relation to the structure of remuneration for executive Directors: Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer who are also solicitors to the Company provided assistance in relation to the service contracts of the executive Directors.
JP Morgan who were sponsors to the Listing provided advice on option pricing.
KPMG who provide general tax, internal audit and sundry other advisory services to the Company provided advice on the design and structure of the LTIP and the annual bonus plan and undertook a benchmarking exercise of executive Directors remuneration.
Statement of Xstratas policy on Directors remuneration At the time of the Listing, the Remuneration Committee adopted a policy of linking executive Directors variable rewards to the performance of the Group and considers that a continuation of this policy in future is essential to align the interests of the executive Directors and key employees with the interests of shareholders.
There is no specific policy of encouraging executive Directors to maintain a long-term shareholding as the remuneration policy is considered to achieve sufficient alignment of interests with shareholders.
Executive Directors The policy will continue to be framed around the following principles for executive Directors: Remuneration arrangements will be designed to align with Xstratas business strategy and to conform to best practice standards.
A high proportion of the remuneration of executive Directors and senior management should be at risk: Total reward packages will be set at levels that are competitive within the relevant market with the intention of positioning within the top quartile for outstanding performance: Total incentive-based rewards will be earned through the achievement of demanding performance conditions consistent with shareholder interests over the short, medium and long term: and Incentive plans, performance measures and targets will be structured to operate effectively and to encourage significant and sustained improvement in the underlying performance of the Group.
66 Xstrata plc Elements of executive Directors remuneration Executive Directors remuneration will continue to comprise the following principal elements: Base salary: Annual bonus plan the bonus plan : Residual entitlements under the Xstrata AG Share Option Schemes and individual arrangements as detailed below: Participation in the LTIP: Pension: and Other benefits including housing allowance where essential for the performance of the duties and permanent health, life and private medical insurance.
Base salary The base salary of the executive Directors is subject to annual review.
The Company will generally aim to pay top quartile packages when measured against a group of global comparators and the FTSE 100 and has instructed KPMG to carry out a benchmarking exercise to assist the Remuneration Committee in determining the appropriate levels of base salary for the following financial year.
This exercise will be carried out at intervals to be determined by the Remuneration Committee to ensure that levels of base salary remain competitive and appropriate in the light of the Companys policy.
Santiago Zaldumbide has a professional services agreement with Asturiana dated 29 January 1998 to act as Chairman and Chief Executive of Asturiana.
The agreement expires on 29 January 2007 unless renewed by mutual agreement or terminated earlier either by Santiago Zaldumbide, giving three months notice, or upon his removal as Chairman.
Up until 31 December 2002, Santiago Zaldumbide was entitled to a total fee for the term of his agreement of 3,005,060 payable at a rate of 601,012 per annum less any fees received from certain specified external directorships.
This fixed contract predates the acquisition of Asturiana.
With effect from January 2003, the Remuneration Committee have concluded and have agreed with Santiago Zaldumbide that his annual fee should be subject to review in line with the other executive Directors.
On termination of the agreement, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive a sum from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana for a premium of 3,005,060, including any with profits bonus payable under the policy less the compensation received by him during the term of the agreement calculated as from 29 January 2003.
This part of the agreement is not affected by the review.
On termination of the agreement by expiry of the fixed term, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive the capital redemption value of the policy, including the with profit bonus element, minus the aforementioned amount of 3,005,060 which he will already have received.
Santiago Zaldumbides entitlements under the insurance policy are in lieu of his receiving pension benefits.
Santiago Zaldumbides appointment as Director of Xstrata is on an indefinite basis subject to the existence of the agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as Director of the Company but is eligible to participate in the bonus plan and the LTIP.
The bonus plan For the year ending 31 December 2003, all the executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the bonus plan.
The maximum bonus pool available for distribution to participants in the bonus plan will be calculated by reference to a fixed proportion of the net profits of the Group during the year to 31 December 2003 and in each following financial year.
This proportion has been determined by the Remuneration Committee as 1% if the return on equity is less than 10%, 1.25% if the return on equity is 10% to 15% and 1.5% if the return on equity is greater than 15% for the year to 31 December 2003 and has been communicated to participants.
Xstrata plc 67 remuneration report The payment of any bonus under the bonus plan will be subject to a hurdle rate for the year ending 31 December 2003 it will be set such that the Groups return on equity will be at least equal to the Groups average cost of borrowing.
If this hurdle is not reached, the bonus pool will be zero.
The amount of the bonus pool that is distributed in any one year, and the relative proportions payable to each participant, will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion not to award a bonus to a participant, but instead make a contribution to a trust for the benefit of an employee or employees of an equivalent sum.
The amount of bonus payable under the bonus plan that any one participant is eligible to receive in cash in respect of any one year will be limited to 100% of the individuals base salary.
Any amount in excess of the limit that would otherwise be payable to an individual in any one year under the bonus plan will be deferred for a period of one year and is conditional on the participant remaining in employment throughout the deferral period.
Under the rules of the bonus plan, deferred amounts may, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, be payable in the form of cash or ordinary shares having an equivalent value at the date the bonus is determined and will be paid at the end of the deferral period, provided that the employee has remained in employment throughout.
The total cash received plus the value of any deferred element may not exceed 200% of a participants base salary in the year in which that bonus is calculated.
The Remuneration Committee will determine at the date of each award whether any deferred amount should be deferred into shares or cash.
There is no intention to use newly issued ordinary shares for the bonus plan and any shares required for the satisfaction of deferred bonuses will be acquired by market purchase.
Subsisting rights under Xstrata AG share schemes Subsisting options held by Mick Davis and Trevor Reid, pursuant to terms on which they were recruited and the subsisting options of Santiago Zaldumbide and certain non executive Directors see below under certain share schemes previously operated by Xstrata AG, were converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Company at the time of the listing of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange the Listing, but otherwise continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the relevant Xstrata AG share schemes.
It is intended that the replacement options will, as far as possible, be satisfied by the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company held by the trustees of the Xstrata Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Xstrata Employee and Directors Share Ownership Trust.
Whilst subsisting options continue to vest under these schemes, no future grants will be made.
Similarly, subsisting options, which had been previously granted to Mick Davis over shares in Xstrata AG owned by Glencore International, were also converted into equivalent options over ordinary shares in the Company on the Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as applied originally.
There is no intention for any further options to be granted by Glencore International.
LTIP In order to remain competitive in attracting and retaining world class executive talent and to reflect best practice in the international market in which the Group operates, the Company has introduced the LTIP which provides the opportunity for significant wealth creation by participants if the Group achieves outstanding performance for shareholders.
The LTIP is consistent with the Groups reward philosophy, which aims to provide superior rewards for outstanding performance and to provide a high proportion of at risk remuneration for executive Directors and senior management.
The LTIP was designed to be, wherever possible, consistent with market practice for FTSE 100 companies and major sector peers and due consideration was given to the guidelines concerning corporate governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The LTIP provides for the grant of both contingent awards of free shares free share awards and share options on the same occasion to the same individual.
The two elements will be complementary and ensure that the cyclical nature of the industry does not have an excessively adverse effect on employee remuneration in circumstances where the performance of the Company has otherwise been good relative to that of competitors.
68 Xstrata plc The free share awards will ensure that where the Company has performed well against a peer group of companies over a specified performance period participants will be rewarded, even if there is no substantial share price growth due to external factors such as commodity prices or general economic conditions.
The option element will only allow participants to benefit provided shareholders also benefit from future share price growth.
The options will also be subject to a comparative performance target to ensure that windfall growth in the share price as a result of external factors does not deliver rewards which are not justified by the performance of the Company relative to its peer group.
The policy regarding performance targets is discussed in more detail below.
The number of ordinary shares over which options will be granted will be calculated using a Black Scholes valuation of the option or a similar approach which the Remuneration Committee considers represents more accurately both the cost to Xstrata of providing the benefit and the value of the option itself as a component of the total remuneration package.
The option value at grant will not be less than 25% of the value of the underlying shares.
In determining the value of free share awards the value of the underlying shares will be used.
Using the method above, the ratio of free share awards to share options for the first awards made after the Listing was 1:1, based on the value at the time of grant.
The Remuneration Committee may change the ratio for future awards if it is thought appropriate and has decided that the ratio for future awards will in general continue to be 1:1 but this may vary for particular awards.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that annual awards will be made under the LTIP to minimise the impact of share volatility and to reflect existing best practice.
The rules of the LTIP provide that the aggregate value of options and free share awards made to an individual in any one year may not exceed an amount equal to two times base salary in normal circumstances although in exceptional circumstances the limit may be up to but not exceed four times base salary.
Pensions Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have participated in money purchase retirement plans from their respective dates of joining the Group.
The plans are designed so as to optimise taxation implications, having regard to the taxation and employment status of each executive.
Contributions will be calculated on actuarial advice with the objective of accumulating sufficient funds over the working lifetime of each executive to provide an overall target pension which will be equivalent to approximately 60% of final salary at normal retirement age, for executives who begin participating in the plans at the age of 40.
The actual benefits payable will however be based on the amount which has accumulated in that members money purchase account.
Such contributions are inclusive of any contributions from the relevant individuals.
Employee contributions are currently payable at a rate of 0% of annual salary for Mick Davis and 5% for Trevor Reid.
As noted above, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no pension benefits under the terms of his fixed cost remuneration arrangement.
External appointments Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorship or offices without approval of the Board.
Non executive Directors Non executive Directors remuneration will continue to comprise fees and residual entitlements under the Xstrata AG Share Option Schemes as detailed below: The non executive Directors do not, and will not in the future, participate in the bonus plan or LTIP.
Xstrata plc 69 remuneration report Fees The level of fees for non executive Directors will be set at the level considered necessary to obtain the services of individuals with the relevant skills and experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition of the Board.
Non executive Directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman and executive Directors of the Board in the light of fees payable to non executive Directors for comparable companies and the importance attached to the retention and attraction of high calibre individuals as non executive Directors.
Non executive Directors are eligible to forego all or part of their Directors fees to acquire shares in the Company, after deduction of applicable income tax and social security contributions.
Residual entitlements under Xstrata AG share schemes Subsisting options held by Reto Domeniconi, Santiago Zaldumbide and Fred Roux under share schemes previously operated by Xstrata AG were converted into equivalent rights over ordinary shares in the Company at Listing but otherwise continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the relevant Xstrata AG share scheme.
It is intended that the replacement options will, as far as possible, be satisfied by the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company held by the trustees of the Xstrata Employee and Directors Share Ownership Trust.
Reto Domeniconi resigned from the Board on 1 June 2002.
The restricted shares awarded and options granted to him under the Xstrata AG Directors Incentive Scheme remain unaffected by the termination of the Board membership and restrictions on the shares lift, and options vest and remain exercisable, pursuant to the terms of the Scheme Rules.
Summary of performance conditions of share options and LTIP awards No executive Directors have currently been granted options or awards of free shares under the LTIP which are subject to performance conditions.
The options detailed above granted prior to the Listing which the executive Directors continue to hold are not subject to performance targets.
Executive Directors are eligible for future grants of options and free share awards under the LTIP both of which will vest at the expiry of a three year performance period subject to the extent to which performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant as outlined above have been satisfied.
Performance targets are not capable of being reset at the end of the performance period, so that any proportion of a free share award or option which does not vest after three years will lapse, although options will remain exercisable after vesting for a maximum of seven years or such shorter period as the Remuneration Committee may specify after which they will lapse.
Options and free share awards will vest in full to the extent that the Group ranks within the top 20% of a specified peer group, and as to 50% if it ranks at the median of the peer group.
In between these two points straight line vesting will apply.
No options or free share awards will vest for below median performance.
In setting a performance condition the Remuneration Committee desired to set targets which require significant out-performance by the Group relative to its competitors.
As explained above, the Remuneration Committee considered the cyclical nature of the market in which the Group operates in the design of the LTIP.
As regards the specific measure of performance, the Remuneration Committee decided that the total shareholder return TSR measured against a peer group of specified comparators for both the contingent awards and options will be used since it is 70 Xstrata plc expected that both the Companys share price and that of its peers will be significantly influenced by the cycle in commodity prices.
The longer term focus for the Group is to improve the share price by more than the equivalent increase in commodity prices over the course of the cycle.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider a target based on EPS growth in excess of inflation to be appropriate.
In addition, it is considered that there is no suitable published index which could be used.
The Groups strategy involves a degree of smoothing of the commodity cycle by focusing on minerals which complement each other in terms of price cycles and therefore for these reasons the Remuneration Committee consider that a comparative approach using TSR measured against a specific peer group dovetails better with the Groups strategy.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that TSR will be a genuine reflection of the Groups underlying financial performance.
In calculating the TSR, the share price of a notional parcel of shares of the Company and the companies in the specified peer group will be averaged over a period preceding the start and end of the relevant performance period.
The Remuneration Committee has resolved that averaging over a three month period eliminates the volatility in spot share prices that could otherwise distort the assessment of whether the target has been met.
The TSR of the Company and each member of the peer group over any performance period is calculated by taking the difference between the closing value and the base value of 100 shares expressed as a percentage of the base value, on the assumption that any net dividend per share paid by any company during the relevant performance period is reinvested in shares on the last day of the month during which the relevant shares go ex-dividend.
This calculation is subject to such adjustments to closing value and base value as the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate to reflect any variation of share capital or any merger, take-over, reconstruction or demerger or change in listing status by any member of the peer group or upon any other events which the Remuneration Committee considers may materially distort the calculation.
The peer group is currently as follows: Alcoa Inc: Anglo American plc: Rio Tinto plc: BHP Billiton plc: Alumina Ltd: Phelps Dodge Corporation: Umicore SA: Teck Cominco Ltd: MIM Holdings Ltd: and Noranda Inc.
The Remuneration Committee may, at its absolute discretion, vary, add, remove or alter the companies making up the peer group where events happen which cause the Remuneration Committee to consider that such a change is appropriate to ensure that the performance condition continues to represent a fair measure of performance provided that they reasonably consider the varied or amended performance condition is not materially more easy or more difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee may adopt different performance conditions during the life of the LTIP and may vary the ratio of free share awards to share options.
Any new performance conditions would be no less demanding, and would be disclosed to shareholders in the Companys annual report.
The Remuneration Committee does not currently propose any such amendments.
Residual entitlements to share options previously granted under the Xstrata AG Share Schemes described above and the option over shares in the Company held by Glencore granted to Mick Davis are not subject to performance conditions because they were originally granted under arrangements which did not provide for awards to be subject to performance which related to Xstrata AG prior to the Company becoming a UK listed company.
Relative importance of performance-related elements The elements of remuneration of the executive Directors are as follows, with an indication of the extent to which they are related to performance: Xstrata plc 71 remuneration report Annual salary not related to performance Annual bonus up to a maximum of 200% of annual salary subject to a hurdle rate that a bonus pool is only available if Xstratas return on equity is at least equal to the Groups average cost of borrowing.
Of this 100% of annual salary may be paid in cash in the year in which the bonus is determined and any excess over this limit will be deferred as described above.
The bonus pool will vary with net profits achieved and the effective rate of return on equity and in allocating the bonus pool the Remuneration Committee will take into account, inter alia, the performance of eligible individuals Residual entitlements of certain Directors, as described above, are not subject to performance conditions.
LTIP options and free share awards normally subject to a maximum of 200% of annual salary valued as described above.
Pension defined contributions employer at a current overall rate of 21% of annual salary under both the Executive Pension Plan and the Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme for Mick Davis and 18% of annual salary under both the Group Personal Pension Plan and the Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme for Trevor Reid and the resulting benefits are not related to performance.
Other benefits are not related to performance.
Of the housing allowance for Mick Davis is currently equivalent to 18% of his annual salary and 37% for Trevor Reid.
Life, permanent health and private medical insurance contributions are currently equivalent to 2% of annual salary for Mick Davis and 3% for Trevor Reid.
Directors service contracts It is the Companys general policy that the period of notice required should not exceed 12 months.
If it became necessary to offer a longer notice period to a new Director, such period should reduce after the initial period.
Specific terms apply to Mick Davis and Trevor Reid and are set out in the section of this report headed Entitlements under Service Contracts.
Performance Graph FTSE 100 Index Xstrata plc 120 100 0% 80 -20% 60 -40% 40 -60% 20 -80% 0 -100% 20 March 2002 31 December 2002 The performance graph set out above shows the TSR for a holding of shares of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002 compared with the TSR for a hypothetical holding of shares of the same kinds and number as those by reference to which the FTSE 100 index is calculated.
The Board considers that the FTSE 100 represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes.
The graph has been prepared for the financial year ended 31 December 2002 as this is the companys first financial year.
The merger by means of which the Company acquired the entire undertaking of Xstrata AG and the subsequent increase in the size of the combined groups operations means that, in the opinion of the Board, it would not be meaningful to show TSR for Xstrata AG for the preceding four financial years.
72 Xstrata plc Value of Investment TSR has been calculated with effect from 20 March 2002, the date conditional dealings in the shares commenced on the London Stock Exchange, assuming that an equivalent sum was invested on that day in shares of the Company and in the Index.
Net dividends are invested in additional shares and benefits receivable in the form of shares are also added to the relevant holding.
The TSR calculation also assumes that immediately before any liability to the Company in respect of the shares is due to be satisfied sufficient shares are sold from the holding to raise funds to meet the liability: for example, in the case of a rights issue sufficient rights are deemed to be sold to enable the proceeds to be invested in taking up as many rights as possible without injecting fresh funds.
Entitlements under service contracts Executive Directors Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with Xstrata Services UK Limited XSL effective from 1 February 2002, but their services as Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively are provided to the Company under a secondment agreement entered into between the Company and XSL on 19 March 2002.
Each of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid is seconded to the Company for a fixed term of two years thereafter renewable by either party for further periods of two years.
The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated by not less than 12 months notice by XSL or the Director concerned or by a payment in lieu of notice by XSL.
On a termination of the employment agreement by XSL in breach, or if Mick Davis or Trevor Reid resigns in circumstances where they either cannot in good faith be expected to continue in employment, each Director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 150% of his annual salary and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary and expenses and to have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans paid in accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid participate in defined contribution arrangements it is not expected that any significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement plan entitlements beyond that already accrued in the accounts.
In addition, each of the executive Directors is eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan, which provides that deferred amounts remain payable notwithstanding cessation of employment after the date a bonus is awarded other than in the event of dismissal for cause.
In the case of termination by reason of death, injury, ill health or disability before the date the bonus is awarded for a financial year, or if the Remuneration Committee in its discretion so resolves, a proportion of the annual bonus pool may still be awarded subject to the normal discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Trevor Reid is entitled to receive bonus payments as compensation for bonus and share option benefits he lost when he left his previous employment to join XSL of US$443,000 in January 2002, US$295,000 on 2 January 2003 and US$221,000 on 2 January 2004 providing he is in employment on those dates.
On termination of the agreement under which Santiago Zaldumbide receives a fixed fee for acting as Chairman of Asturiana, other than on his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Zaldumbide is entitled to receive a sum from the redemption of an insurance policy acquired by Asturiana as described above.
Santiago Zaldumbide is engaged as a Director of the Company on the terms of a letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002.
The appointment is on an indefinite basis subject to the existence of the agreement between Santiago Zaldumbide and Asturiana, the terms and conditions of which are detailed above.
Santiago Zaldumbide will receive no additional remuneration for his position as Director of the Company and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his office as a Director of the Company.
Xstrata plc 73 remuneration report Non executive Directors Willy Strothotte is engaged by the Company as a non executive Director and Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 25 February 2002 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by Willy Strothotte.
The Company may terminate Willy Strothottes appointment at any time and on such termination Willy Strothotte will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
The term may be renewed by the Company.
David Rough is engaged by the Company as a non executive Director and Deputy Chairman on the terms of a letter of appointment.
The appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 1 April 2002 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by David Rough.
The Company may terminate David Roughs appointment at any time and on such termination David Rough will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
David Issroff, Ivan Glasenberg, Paul Hazen, Robert MacDonnell, Fred Roux and Sir Steve Robson are each engaged by the Company as a non executive Director on the terms of a letter of appointment.
Each appointment is for an initial fixed term of 36 months commencing on 25 February 2002 and terminable thereafter by six months notice by the Director.
Reto Domeniconis appointment as a non executive Director commenced on 25 February 2002 and terminated on 1 June 2002.
He was paid US$20,000 as a final settlement fee plus US$40,000 consultancy fee for the period 1 June 2002 to 31 December 2002 although he retains his residual entitlements detailed in Residual entitlements under Xstrata AG share schemes.
The Company may terminate each non executive Directors appointment at any time and on such termination the Director will not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
Each term may be renewed by the Company.
There is no arrangement under which a Director has agreed to waive future emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the financial year.
There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by any member of the Group to or for the benefit of any of the Directors.
No significant awards, other than those to Reto Domeniconi detailed above, have been made in the financial year to any past Directors.
