Balfour Beatty plc Directors report Annual report and accounts 2002 30 Activities Retirement, election and re-election of Directors The Chairmans statement and Chief Executives review on pages 02 to 07, the The Chairman, Viscount Weir, is retiring at the Annual General Meeting Operating review on pages 10 to 25, and the Financial review on pages 26 and on 15 May 2003, and will be succeeded as Chairman by Sir David John, who 27 report on the principal activities of the Group, its operations during 2002 was appointed as a non-executive Director on 13 July 2000.
Christopher Reeves and future developments in its businesses.
is also retiring as a non-executive Director at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, each of Anthony Rabin, Dividends Alastair Wivell, Richard Delbridge and Sir David Wright hold office until the The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 3.05p net per Annual General Meeting, at which each are eligible for, and accordingly offer share, making, with the interim dividend of 2.35p, a total dividend for 2002 of themselves for, election.
Mr Rabin and Mr Wivell are both executive Directors.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share Details of their service contracts appear in the remuneration report on page 33. have been paid for 2002.
The Directors who retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting are Malcolm Eckersall, Ian Tyler and Peter Zinkin who, being eligible, offer Dialogue with shareholders themselves for re-election.
Details of their respective service contracts appear The Company has a long-established programme of regular communication in the remuneration report.
Mr Tyler was elected in 2000, Mr Zinkin was last with institutional investors and brokers.
Presentations are made to brokers re-elected in 2000 and Mr Eckersall was elected in 2001. analysts, the press and institutional investors at the time of the announcement of final and half-year results and there are regular meetings with analysts and Directors interests investors throughout the year, which are organised through the Companys No Director had any material interest in any contract of significance with the brokers, so that the investment community can be kept informed of longer term Group during the period under review.
The interests of Directors in the share strategic matters and can communicate their views to executive management.
capital of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are set out in Note 21 b We expect to continue this programme, within the constraints of relevant on page 56 and under the long-term incentive scheme the Performance Share legislation and practice.
The Groups website is at www.
com Plan 2001, and in respect of options over such share capital, in the tables in the and is a regular channel of communication with shareholders and others.
remuneration report beginning on page 35.
Directors Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Directors of the Company are given on pages 28 and 29.
All the Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2002 are set Directors shown served throughout the year, with the exception of Anthony out in Note 17 beginning on page 53.
During the year to 31 December 2002 Rabin and Alastair Wivell, who were each appointed as executive Directors no ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation and 5,000,000 preference on 9 July 2002, and Richard Delbridge and Sir David Wright, who were each shares representing 3.0% of the preference share capital were repurchased for appointed a non-executive Director on 24 October 2002 and 1 January 2003 cancellation for a total consideration of 6,835,000 at an average price of respectively.
During the year, Michael Miles retired as a non-executive Director 136.7p.
568,658 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options following the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2002, and Paul Lester held under the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and resigned his position as executive Director on 28 June 2002 following his 386,256 ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held appointment as Chief Executive of VT Group plc.
Ian Tyler was appointed under the Companys Executive Share Option Scheme.
No other shares were to the new post of Chief Operating Officer on 14 August 2002. issued during the year.
As at 4 March 2003, the Company had been notified in accordance with Selection of non-executive Directors Sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following interests in its Our non-executive Directors have, for some years, been chosen on the basis of ordinary share capital: their individual background and experience for the contribution they can make Fidelity International Limited 31.3m shares 7.53% both generally and in specific areas relevant to our business.
Thus, Christopher Reeves, and now Richard Delbridge, bring to us City and financial experience Aviva plc 29.1m shares 7.00% at the highest level: Sir David John brings the experience of leading large Morley Fund Management Limited international companies: Udo Stark contributes the background knowledge of included in the interest of Aviva plc above 29.1m shares 6.99% business in Germany, where we have important interests: Sir David Wright, as a Standard Life Investments Limited 20.8m shares 5.02% former head of British Trade International, has extensive knowledge of overseas HBOS plc 17.2m shares 4.15% markets and particularly the Far East: and Rob Walvis brings the benefit of wide Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 16.8m shares 4.05% experience drawn from a career in senior positions at Shell.
Candidates are identified by a combination of using both outside Prudential plc 15.4m shares 3.72% consultants and the wide range of personal contacts at senior level which the Board members have between them.
An independent outlook is an essential qualification for selection.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 31 Corporate governance The Chief Executives Committee This committee, which comprises executive Directors, considers proposed Overview capital expenditure, investments and divestments up to fixed limits, above The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate which the matter is referred to the Board.
governance reflected in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The Company has complied with all the Code Standing committees of the Board are also established to consider such provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the financial matters as banking issues and the administration of share options.
year ended 31 December 2002 save, as in the previous year, the Company has The membership of these committees, all of which have their own written not complied with provision A.
2.1 of the Code to identify a separate senior terms of reference, in practice comprises executive Directors with a specific independent Director for disclosure in the Annual Report.
remain firmly of the view that this is unnecessary on account of having a Risk management non-executive Chairman, a separate Chief Executive and an experienced and The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of internal risk independent Chairman of the Audit Committee.
management and control and reviews their effectiveness on an annual basis The Board and its Committees Code para D. 2.1.
The Board considers that the Groups systems and controls The Board comprises seven executive and seven non-executive Directors, are appropriately designed to ensure that the Groups exposure to significant including the Chairman.
The Board generally meets once a month to consider risk is properly managed, but recognises that any system of internal control matters specifically reserved for its attention and decision.
The Board has can only reduce and not eliminate the risk of loss.
established procedures which are designed to ensure that Directors are The Audit Committee, the workings of which have been described, is appropriately briefed on issues to be discussed at meetings.
Board papers are responsible for ensuring the effective working and regular review of the Groups circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow time to consider the internal systems and controls.
adequacy of the information provided for decision making.
Certain of the The basis of the Groups system of internal control is the risk management responsibilities of the Board are delegated to Board Committees, each of framework.
This framework accords with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal which has specific written terms of reference.
Controls and was in place throughout the year and up to the date of signing the Annual Report.
The framework is applied to all functions in the Group, The main committees are: whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks facing each The Audit Committee part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together with the steps The membership of this committee, which is chaired by Mr Reeves, is comprised to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those reviews are placed on risk of all the non-executive Directors.
Meetings are attended by external auditors, registers and, where necessary, specific action plans are developed.
The registers the Head of Internal Audit and the Finance Director, at the invitation of the are required to be updated on a regular basis, and the reporting procedures laid committee chairman.
down ensure a continuing flow of risk information to the Audit Committee and The committee holds at least three meetings a year, two of which are the Board.
held prior to the Boards approval of the interim and final financial results The Groups systems of internal control are operated in a number of respectively and a third is held, customarily, in May after the AGM.
The Audit different ways: Committee provides, among other things, an important forum for regular and formal communication between the Groups external and internal auditors.
by the Internal Audit team, which carries out programmed reviews and tests of critical business processes and controls and conducts spot checks in areas The terms of reference of the Audit Committee give it the power to of perceived high business risk.
The Head of Group Audit maintains a direct consult external auditors without executive Directors being present, to reporting line to the chairman of the Audit Committee: obtain independent advice, to avail itself of appropriate training, and to seek information from any employee.
Its primary task, as required by its terms of by the individual tender and project review procedures, which commence at reference, is to review the accounts of the Company before they go to the operating Company level and progress to Board Committee level if value or Board for approval, including the accounting policies applied, judgements perceived exposure reaches certain amounts: and adjustments made and any conflicts of interest.
The committee has also by the monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results the specific responsibility to consider the selection, appointment and and forecasts: dismissal of the external auditors, as well as to assess the relative scope of their work, the extent of their non audit services, their level of remuneration by the regular monitoring, review and reporting of health, safety and and their independence.
environmental matters: The committee is also charged with reviewing the Companys compliance by the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Controls, the policies employed in the capital expenditure through the Chief Executives Committee and the Board: Company for identifying and managing business risk, the effectiveness of any by specific policies set out in the Group Finance manual, covering banking corrective action by management and the reports from the internal audit and treasury matters including arrangements with the Groups bankers and function on the effectiveness of the risk management systems in the Group.
bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management of This aspect is dealt with at greater length under Risk management below.
currency exposures: The Business Practices Committee by regular risk reviews by executive Directors and line management of The membership of this committee, which is chaired by Sir David John, is particular areas of business or particular projects, which are used to update identical to that of the Audit Committee.
It meets at least three times a year, both managements understanding of the risk environment in which the generally following meetings of the Audit Committee.
Its terms of reference Group operates and the methods used to mitigate and control the risks enable it to discuss all aspects of the Groups business practice, including in identified: and particular, health, safety, ethical and environmental matters.
Its meetings are attended, through invitation, by the director of Safety, Health and the by management ensuring the free and regular flow of information internally Environment.
and the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures in relation to new or changing risk areas.
The Compensation and Appointments Committee The membership of this committee, which is chaired by Viscount Weir, is also identical to that of the Audit Committee.
The role of this committee is described at greater length in the remuneration report beginning on page 32.
The Group Tender Committee This committee, which in practice comprises executive Directors only, considers major tenders before their submission.
Where an opportunity to tender for a project is either of unusual size or exposure, it is also considered by the Board as a whole.
Directors report continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 32 Remuneration report Annual incentive plan Each executive Director participates in an annual incentive plan, under which Compensation and Appointments Committee predetermined financial targets must be achieved before any payment is earned.
The Compensation and Appointments Committee of the Board CAC is The maximum potential bonus which could have been earned by executive responsible for determining the remuneration policy and conditions of service Directors for 2002 was 50% of salary and the performance indicator chosen for the executive Directors.
It is also responsible for making recommendations to was profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Based on the Board for the appointment of executive Directors.
the performance of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2002, each The CAC comprises all the non-executive Directors, whose names can executive Director earned a bonus of 31.5% of salary.
Precise figures are shown be found on page 28, and is chaired by Viscount Weir.
Mike Welton, the in the table on page 34.
These bonuses are payable in cash, after deduction of Chief Executive, is invited to join its meetings whenever appropriate, and tax, and are non pensionable.
For 2003 a similar bonus structure will operate Peter Johnson, the director of personnel, attends as secretary.
with the maximum potential bonus again being 50% of salary.
No member of the CAC has any personal financial interest, other than as a For subsequent years, the CAC will continue to review the competitiveness shareholder, in the matters to be decided by the CAC, nor potential conflicts of and structure of the annual incentive plan.
interest arising from cross-directorships, and no member of the CAC has any day to day involvement in the executive management of the Group.
Long-term incentive scheme During 2002, advice and assistance has been provided by the Monks In 2001 the Company obtained shareholder approval for a Performance Share Partnership Monks, New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC and Plan Plan, a long-term incentive scheme which is entirely performance Mr Johnson.
Mr Welton attended part of one meeting, by invitation, in related.
Following agreement by the CAC, conditional awards were made in connection with the appointment of additional executive Directors and has 2001 and again in 2002.
Under the Plan, executive Directors and key senior also, separately, made recommendations in connection with executive Directors managers may receive ordinary shares in the Company up to a maximum salaries, other than his own.
number equivalent in market value to their basic salaries at the date Monks and NBSC were each appointed by the CAC to provide of award.
Details of awards to executive Directors are shown in the first table independent advice and assistance to it.
Monks has also provided data and on page 35.
These shares will be transferred to the executive Director and vest advice to the Company regarding the remuneration of senior management only if, and to the extent that, an earnings per share growth target is met below the level of executive Director, and carried out a comparative salary survey over a three year performance period.
of key positions for one of the Groups operating businesses.
NBSC has provided For the 2002 award, the extent to which this target is achieved over the the Company with remuneration data in connection with a US-based senior three year period ending 31 December 2004 will determine the number of executive position.
shares if any to which a Director will be entitled.
The maximum award of shares is made only where the Companys earnings per share before exceptional Directors remuneration items and goodwill amortisation EPS increases by at least 100% in this period.
If EPS growth is 30% over the period, the Directors will be entitled to General policy 30% of the maximum number of shares.
If EPS growth is between 30% and The policy of the CAC is to pay competitive basic salaries to facilitate the 100%, the number of shares awarded will be pro rata to actual growth.
recruitment and retention of high calibre management so as to ensure that No shares can be awarded if EPS growth is less than 30%, and there is no the Company performs to its potential and increases shareholder value.
Annual bonuses and long-term incentive schemes are also seen as an important EPS growth was chosen as the performance measure because it was and part of each Directors total remuneration and are used to drive and reward remains a key objective, since continuing growth in the Companys EPS should performance.
The CAC aims to achieve an approximately even balance between logically be reflected in growth in the share price and dividends and, therefore, basic salaries and performance related incentive arrangements and has sought increased returns to shareholders.
The importance of EPS growth is well to reflect this policy in the current remuneration packages.
Executive Directors understood by the Directors and those other senior managers who participate are invited to participate in the same pension schemes as other executives.
The CAC believes that the present management team contributes Basic salaries directly to achieving EPS growth and is positively motivated by the Plan.
It is, In setting the basic salaries of executive Directors, the CAC obtains data and therefore, the intention of the CAC to retain EPS growth as the performance independent advice from Monks and NBSC on the remuneration levels in measure for awards under the Plan for 2003.
FTSE 250 companies taking into account the broad business sectors in which The Plan was approved at the 2001 Annual General Meeting for a period the Company operates, its market capitalisation and its annual turnover.
of five years and, unless circumstances change significantly, the CAC intends to The CAC used this market data, together with its own judgement of the make further conditional awards under the Plan in 2003 and also anticipates performance of the Groups businesses and the contribution made by individual doing so in 2004 and 2005.
It would then be the intention to submit proposals Directors, in determining basic salary increases implemented on 1 July 2002 for future long-term incentive arrangements to shareholders for approval at the which averaged 8.2%.
The CAC intends to adopt a similar approach in July 2006 Annual General Meeting.
2003 and for the foreseeable future.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 33 The CAC believes in setting challenging performance targets and, as a result, Notice periods in both 2001 and 2002 the maximum award under the Plan was linked to an Since 1999, it has been the Companys policy and practice to include in executive EPS growth target of 100%.
The CAC remains committed to establishing Directors contracts a 12 month rolling notice period from the Company and six demanding targets for 2003 and for future years but recognises, however, months notice on the part of the Director.
This policy will continue in the future.
that if such performance targets are to have a proper incentive effect they Two executive Directors, namely Mr Welton and Mr Zinkin, who have been also need to be realistic and achievable.
The CAC therefore intends to take Directors since 1996 and 1991 respectively and employees for much longer account of such factors as growth already achieved and future business than that have service contracts which provide for notice periods from the prospects so as to ensure a sensible balance in determining the upper target Company of 24 months.
The CAC has considered this matter in some detail at which the maximum award is made and the minimum level below which and notes the views of many shareholders regarding the inappropriateness of no award is made.
The CAC is also mindful that Mr Welton and Mr Zinkin No performance period under the Plan has yet been completed.
are long serving employees Mr Welton joined in 1978 and Mr Zinkin in 1981, Once a period is completed, the internal calculation of EPS growth will be that their existing contracts of employment were freely entered into some years independently verified before the CAC recommends to the Trustee of the ago, and that their contribution to the Company has been, and continues to Plan to make any transfers of shares.
The CAC does not believe that it would be appropriate, or in shareholders interests, to make a compensatory payment to reduce these notice Executive share options periods, nor would it expect the two Directors voluntarily to reduce their existing Prior to the establishment of the Performance Share Plan, grants of options notice periods without some form of compensation.
For these reasons, no over ordinary shares were made to executive Directors, some of which alteration to these notice periods is proposed.
However, if an opportunity arises remain valid and unexercised.
Details of these and the relevant performance in the future to bring these notice periods into line with those of other executive conditions appear in the second table beginning on page 35.
It is now the Directors, the CAC would review the situation with the Directors concerned.
CACs policy that, save in exceptional circumstances, for example to attract None of the service contracts of executive Directors includes provision for an outstanding individual, further awards of options will not be made to specific payment in the event of early termination, nor do they provide for executive Directors who, in the same year, participate in the Plan.
No executive extended notice periods in the event of a change of control.
It is not the CACs options have therefore been granted to executive Directors since April 2000 intention to introduce such provisions.
If any existing contract of employment and it is not intended that any executive options will be granted to executive is breached by the Company in the event of termination, the Company would Directors in 2003. be liable to pay, as damages, an amount approximating to the net loss of The CAC determines whether or not the performance conditions are salary and contractual benefits for the unexpired notice period.
The CAC will satisfied in accordance with the Rules of the Scheme.
This determination is seek to ensure that the Director fulfils his obligation to mitigate his losses and made following independent verification of the internal calculations.
will also give consideration to phased payments where appropriate.
Savings-related options Details of the service contracts of the executive Directors are shown in the Performance conditions are not applied to savings-related share options table below.
since the schemes are open to all employees based in the UK, including Notice period from executive Directors.
Name of Director Date of contract Company months Scheme rule amendments J L Cohen 11 February 2000 12 No amendments to the Rules of the Executive Share Option Scheme 2001, M K Eckersall 23 February 2001 12 the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2001, or the Performance Share P J Lester 14 February 2000 12 Plan 2001, have been made and none are currently proposed.
All of these schemes received shareholder approval at the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
Directors report continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 34 Remuneration report continued Non-executive Directors 160 Non-executive Directors are appointed by the full Board which also determines the terms on which their services are provided.
Non-executive Directors are 140 appointed for a term of three years at a time unless required earlier to submit 120 for re-election under the rotational provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company.
They do not have service contracts, are not eligible to join any 100 Balfour Beatty pension fund and cannot participate in any of the Companys share option, annual incentive or long-term incentive schemes.
None of the 80 appointment letters for non-executive Directors contain provision for specific payment in the event of termination for whatever cause.
60 The fees of the non-executive Directors are reviewed from time to time, the last review having been undertaken by the Board in June 2002.
The Board 40 considered comparative data supplied by Monks, and the fact that the last increase took place on 1 January 2000, and agreed that non-executive Directors 20 fees should be increased from 25,000 to 30,000 per annum, with effect from 1 July 2002.
The Chairman, who is non-executive, did not receive any increase in his fee in 2002 and has not received an increase since his fee was originally Dec-97 Dec-98 Dec-99 Dec-00 Dec-01 Dec-02 agreed on his becoming Chairman in 1996.
No additional fees are currently payable to non-executive Directors for chairing Board committees but, since FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies September 2001, Mr Stark has also received a E30,000 per annum fee from Balfour Beatty Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH for his chairmanship of the supervisory board of that company, which is based in Munich.
Performance graph The CAC has elected to compare the TSR on the Companys ordinary shares The graph opposite shows Balfour Beattys Total Shareholder Return TSR against the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies.
This is a broad performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment index, and the Company is a constituent member of it.
The CAC has concluded companies TSR over the five financial years ended 31 December 2002. that it would have been less meaningful to use a narrower index such as the The values indicated in the graph show the share price growth plus reinvested Construction & Building Materials Index for comparison purposes.
Although this dividends from a 100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Balfour index includes direct competitors, it also includes house builders, aggregate and Beatty plc and in the index at the start of the period and have been calculated other building material suppliers, but does not include companies in the support using 30 trading day average values.
services sector in which the Company is active.
The CAC therefore concluded that this index did not provide a better comparator group than the broader FTSE 250 Index.
The detailed information about the Directors remuneration, set out below and on pages 35 to 37, has been reported on by the Companys independent auditors, Deloitte & Touche.
Mr Rabin and Mr Wivell were appointed to the Board on 9 July 2002.
Mr Delbridge was appointed to the Board on 24 October 2002.
Mr Lester resigned as a Director on 28 June 2002 and was not paid compensation on leaving the Company.
Mr Miles retired as a non-executive Director on 16 May 2002. ii Fees payable to Viscount Weir were not increased during 2002.
Mr Starks fees include E30,000 per annum from Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH for his chairmanship of the supervisory board of that company, which is based in Munich.
iii Benefits in kind are calculated in terms of UK taxable values.
For the executive Directors they comprise: a fully expensed car, a fuel card, and private medical insurance for the Director and his immediate family.
The Company also provided Mr Zinkin with a travel allowance and Mr Wivell with limited relocation assistance to facilitate his move from Edinburgh to London as a result of his appointment as a Director.
The benefit in kind shown for Viscount Weir comprises travel expenses and an accommodation allowance in respect of the time he spends in London on Company business.
Part of the benefit in kind paid to Mr Rabin was in connection with the Companys requirement at short notice for him to rearrange his familys vacation so as to be in the UK for the announcement of the Groups half yearly results following his appointment as Finance Director.
iv Other than as stated in Note iii, no Director receives any expense allowance.
Notes: i All awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares of Balfour Beatty plc.
ii For the awards in June 2001 and April 2002, the performance periods are the three years ending 31 December 2003 and 31 December 2004 respectively.
The maximum number of shares shown in the table above will be transferred to the Directors only if, and to the extent that, earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation EPS grows by 100% over the performance period.
If EPS growth is 30%, the Directors will be entitled to 30% of the maximum number of shares.
If EPS growth is between 30% and 100%, the number of shares awarded will be pro rata.
No shares can be awarded if EPS growth is less than 30%, and there is no provision for retesting.
iii Mr Lesters awards lapsed on his resignation on 28 June 2002. iv The awards to Mr Rabin and Mr Wivell were made prior to their appointment as Directors.
v As at 31 December 2002, no awards made under the Plan have vested.
vi The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the date of the 2001 award under the Plan, which was used for calculating the number of awards granted, was 199.333p, and for the 2002 award was 237.583p.
The closing market price of ordinary shares on the date of the awards was 202.5p and 251p respectively.
Notes: i All options are granted for nil consideration on grant and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares of Balfour Beatty plc.
ii Executive options granted before 1996 did not contain performance conditions.
iii Since the beginning of 1996, all executive options have been granted to executive Directors subject to the achievement of performance conditions, based on a predetermined growth in earnings per share before exceptional items Eps.
For the grant made in April 1996, Eps for the last year of the three year performance period must have grown from the average Eps for the previous three year period by a total of at least 712% plus the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI over the performance period.
The performance condition allowed for retesting if not achieved in any three year period and has been satisfied by reference to the three year performance period ended 31 December 2001.
For the grants made in November 1999 and April 2000, Eps for the last year of the minimum three year performance period must have grown from their respective fixed base Eps by a total of at least 212% and 3% per annum respectively plus the increase in RPI over the relevant period.
The performance condition allowed for retesting from the fixed base.
The performance conditions for these grants have been satisfied by reference to the three year performance periods ended 31 December 2001 and 31 December 2002 respectively.
iv The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31 December 2002 was 144.5p.
During the year the highest and lowest closing market prices were 281p and 126.25p.
v Mr Lesters executive share options and savings-related share options lapsed unexercised on his resignation on 28 June 2002. vi Executive share options granted to Mr Welton and Mr Zinkin in April 1992, exercisable at 305p, lapsed unexercised in April 2002, savings-related share options granted to Mr Welton and Mr Zinkin in May 1996, exercisable at 267.9p, lapsed unexercised in January 2002 and an option granted to Mr Welton under the savings-related share option scheme in May 1997, exercisable at 208p, lapsed unexercised in January 2003. vii On 22 April 2002, prior to his appointment as a Director, Mr Rabin exercised an executive share option over 15,000 shares granted on 1 May 1997 at an exercise price of 231p.
The market price on 22 April 2002 was 266p and the gain on exercise was 5,250. viii On 6 December 2002, Mr Tyler exercised an option over 340 ordinary shares held under the savings-related share option scheme 1991 at an exercise price of 91p.
The closing market price on 6 December 2002 was 148.25p and, as a result, a gain of 195 was realised.
Mr Tyler has retained these shares.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 37 Directors pensions Executive Directors participate in the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Balfour Beatty Senior Executive Pension Fund, the same pension schemes as other executives.
The schemes provide for a pension at a normal retirement age of 62 and each Director pays an annual contribution equal to 5% of pensionable salary.
The target pension for a Director who can complete 20 or more years pensionable service at normal retirement age is two-thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Directors have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions, but neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the tables below.
The salaries of Mr Cohen, Mr Eckersall, Mr Lester, Mr Rabin and Mr Tyler are subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap for pension purposes and details of the Companys contributions to additional arrangements for them are noted underneath the second table below.
The table below sets out the accrued deferred pension which would be paid annually from the schemes at retirement based on each executive Directors service to 31 December 2002 as well as the additional pension benefit secured in respect of service during the year.
Notes: i The transfer value of the increase in accrued deferred pension is the present value of the increase in excess of inflation in the deferred pension and associated benefits during the period calculated on the MFR basis in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, less Directors contributions.
ii Mr Weltons pensionable service includes eight years of transferred-in service from previous employment.
The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 December 2002 of each executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date as well as the movement in that transfer value over the period.
The transfer values represent the cash equivalent values that would have been payable from the schemes had the Directors left service on the dates shown, and reflect the age of the Director, his period of membership of the schemes and his pensionable salary.
Notes: i The transfer value is the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated benefits at 31 December 2002, calculated on the MFR basis in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
On the MFR basis, transfer values for members below the age of 50 are assumed to be backed entirely by equities.
Over the age range 50 to 60 the asset backing is assumed to move progressively from equities to bonds.
ii The figure is the difference between the transfer value of the accrued benefits at the start and end of the period, less the Directors contributions during the period.
During the year ended 31 December 2002, falling equity prices have led to a reduction in transfer values, where these are assumed to be backed by equities.
As a result, the transfer value at 31 December 2002 may be lower than the transfer value at 31 December 2001, even though the accrued deferred pension has increased.
The salaries of Mr Cohen, Mr Eckersall, Mr Lester, Mr Rabin and Mr Tyler were subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap for pension purposes, and the Company has contributed to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme FURBS for each of them.
In 2002, the Companys contribution to Mr Cohens plan was 29,048, to Mr Eckersalls 34,876, to Mr Lesters 19,273, to Mr Rabins 19,568 and to Mr Tylers 31,788.
Benefits under these FURBS are additional to those set out in the tables above.
The contribution to Mr Lesters FURBS ceased on his resignation from the Company.
No past Director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive retirement benefits in excess of his entitlements on the date on which those benefits first became payable, or 31 March 1997 if later.
Directors report continued Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2002 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Research and development The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and Safety, Environment and Social Report For the second year we are publishing development in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and processes a separate Safety, Environment and Social Report.
Shareholders may obtain a and innovation in areas such as information technology and asset copy of this by following the procedure on page 07.
A copy will be available management systems.
to all shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting and to preference Balfour Beatty undertakes a range of development initiatives throughout its shareholders attending the separate class meeting.
businesses which are supported by links with selected universities, including the Group policies Our published policies on Health and Safety, the Environment, Universities of Leeds, Strathclyde and UMIST.
Ethics and Human Rights remain unchanged.
Both the terms of these policies, Details of the Groups 2002 research and development expenditure are and our practice in these areas, are within the terms of reference of the given in Note 2b on page 45. Business Practices Committee of the Board.
Our progress in the areas of Health, Safety and the Environment is described in the Safety, Environment Payment of creditors and Social Report.
Meetings in connection with our human rights In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers policy and practice have been held during the year with a number of when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of transactions: to seek non-governmental organisations.
to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to abide by these terms of payment as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the Employment As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2002 different environments it has a decentralised management structure, with the year end creditors days of the Company were 9 2001: 29. employment policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
However, each employing company is expected to comply with certain key Statement of Directors responsibilities principles in its design and practice of employment policy.
The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the These are: Independent Auditors report on page 39, is made with a view to distinguishing To provide an open, challenging and participative environment for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the To enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, through auditors in relation to the financial statements.
appropriate encouragement, training and development The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial To communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance of statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of the Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it.
the affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year To provide pay and other benefits which reflect good local practices and and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The Directors consider that, in reward individual and collective performance preparing the financial statements on pages 40 to 62, the Company and the To ensure that all applicants and employees receive equal treatment regardless Group have used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and of origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and the goals and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any through local publications, briefing groups, consultative meetings, training time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable programmes and working groups to assist the process of continuous them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies improvement in the way they operate and do business.
Regular publications Act 1985. inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Many of The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are our UK based businesses have either attained or have committed to attain reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the the UK Investors in People standard.
Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Pension Liaison Committee continues to provide a forum for employee member representatives to discuss pension matters with management and Auditors fund advisers.
During 2002, the Trust Board and Company continued to Deloitte & Touche, who were appointed by the Board from 1 August 2002 communicate with Pension Fund members through publications called News following the resignation of Arthur Andersen, have indicated their willingness to about your Pension and In Touch.
The most notable development in 2002 continue as auditors.
was the establishment of a new defined contribution section of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund for new employees from 1 January 2003.
Annual General Meeting Viscount Weir, who chairs the Compensation and Appointments Committee, Donations Mr C R Reeves, who chairs the Audit Committee and Sir David John, who In 2002 the Group contributed approximately 0.04m to charities, mostly in the chairs the Business Practices Committee, will be available at the Annual General UK.
The Company is currently formulating a revised charities policy under which Meeting to answer any questions arising from the work of these Committees.
it will direct its support to a small number of selected charities, which will be The Board regards the Annual General Meeting as an important occasion on reviewed annually.
The new policy is likely to cause an increase in charitable which to communicate with shareholders, and research into subjects of likely donations by the Group.
interest to shareholders is undertaken so that questions can be answered during In addition the Group has enabled UK employees to donate through the the meeting for the benefit of all shareholders present.
Shareholders may also Give-as-you-Earn scheme to various charities of their choice.
put questions in advance of the Annual General Meeting by writing to the Company Secretary.
Taxation status The business to be put to the Annual General Meeting is set out in the The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Post balance sheet events Directors report and Remuneration report There are no post balance sheet events.
signed by Order of the Board C R ON Pearson Company Secretary 4 March 2003
