54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT 3d Risk factors 4b There are risks and uncertainties relevant to the Groups business.
The factors listed below are those that the Group believes could cause the Groups actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
Other factors besides those listed here could also adversely affect the Group.
To date, the Group has not completed the full clinical development of any product candidate.
If a product fails in clinical studies, regulatory approval and consequent sales would be delayed.
The difficulties, uncertainties and the high level of investment associated with new product development are inherently uncertain.
A product can fail at any stage of the process, and late-stage product candidates could fail to receive regulatory approval.
New product candidates may appear promising in development but fail to reach the market because of efficacy or safety concerns, the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, the difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture and or the infringement of patents or intellectual property rights of others.
The Group faces the risk that its patent applications may be denied, or that issued patents may be challenged or otherwise not provide protection for any commercially viable products developed.
The success of the Groups products will depend on being able to produce the product at a reasonable cost, convincing doctors to prescribe the product, the patients accepting the product, and the product being more effective than its competitors.
Third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment may constrain future revenues.
A significant proportion of future revenue may depend on payments by third-party payers, including government health administration authorities and private health insurers.
The Group may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited.
Until the 2002 financial year, Acambis had a history of operating losses.
To fund future operations, Acambis may need additional financing, and this financing may not be available, or may only be available on terms that dilute our shareholders.
If the Group is unable to raise additional funds as needed, it may be required to delay, reduce or eliminate some of its development programmes.
Legal factors, including product liability claims, environmental concerns and patent disputes with competitors, could preclude commercialisation of products or negatively affect the profitability of such products, or give rise to liabilities for which the Group may have no, or only limited, insurance coverage.
Recent loss experience within the insurance industry as a whole, including pharmaceutical product liability exposures, has increased the cost of insurance coverage generally for biotechnology companies, including Acambis.
Acambis has entered into several significant commercial agreements, and the success of products is, therefore, highly dependent on collaborators.
These collaborators have significant discretion over the resources they devote, and Acambis cannot guarantee that third parties will devote adequate resources to the collaborations, or that those products can be successfully commercialised without those collaborators.
Regulation imposed by government agencies imposes significant costs and restrictions on the development, testing, approval and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products for human use.
Lost market opportunities may result from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the US FDA, the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products and comparable agencies in other foreign countries.
In some countries, including the US and those of the European Union, regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding, increasing not only the cost of product development but also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so.
The Group expects that this trend will continue and will expand to other countries.
The loss of key employees could weaken the Groups scientific expertise and delay the development of products.
Biotechnology companies, such as Acambis, are highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of Acambis technologies, products, programmes, collaborative relationships and strategic goals.
The loss of these employees could have a negative impact on the business and prospects of the Group.
The Groups business may be negatively affected by the intense competition it faces from pharmaceutical and specialised biotechnology companies engaged in the development of vaccines and other drugs in areas in which the Group is engaged.
Competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior products, manufacturing capabilities or marketing expertise.
Many of Acambis competitors may have greater financial and human resources and more experience in research and development.
If the Group fails to obtain adequate intellectual property rights for its product candidates, competitors will be able to take advantage of Acambis R&D efforts.
The biotechnology field is characterised by significant and rapid technological change.
Research and discoveries by others may result in medical insights or breakthroughs which render the Groups product candidates obsolete before they generate any revenue.
The Group has no control over changes in inflation and interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other ecomomic factors affecting its business or the possibility of political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalisation in jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
These factors could materially affect the Groups future results of operations.
The Group conducts a substantial proportion of its operations outside the United Kingdom.
Fluctuations in the exchange rate between sterling and other currencies, especially the US dollar, materially affect the Groups reported revenues and operating results.
New or revised accounting standards and rules introduced from time to time by UK, US or international accounting standard setting boards could have a material adverse impact on the Groups reported financial results.
In 2002 the Group reported its maiden profit.
The effective tax rate on the Groups earnings is affected by the tax rates applicable in the UK and the US.
Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters, such as transfer pricing, that relate to the proportion of the Groups earnings which may be taxed at more favourable rates could increase the Groups effective tax rate and adversely affect its net earnings.
Acambis has a major contract with the US Government to manufacture 155 million doses of smallpox vaccine and to take that vaccine through to licensure.
The costs associated with this programme, and the revenue recognition thereon, will have a material impact on the financial results of the Group until the product is approved.
Acambis has one manufacturing facility, in the US.
The loss of this facility may have a significant impact on the results of the Group.
This list should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
55 56 6b REMUNERATION REPORT The Board has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code as discussed within the Companys corporate governance statement on pages 52 to 55, and has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as described below.
In August 2002, the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations came into force.
The Regulations, which amend part VII Accounts and Audit of the Companies Act 1985, introduce a new statutory disclosure regime on directors remuneration which is to be applied alongside the Combined Code and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
The Regulations also introduced a new requirement that a resolution be put each year to shareholders to approve the Remuneration Committees report.
A resolution putting this report to such a vote is included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Those sections which our auditors,  LLP, have audited have been specifically identified within this report.
Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, all independent Non-executive Directors, are Alan Dalby Chairman, Alan Smith and Michael Lytton.
Sir Brian Richards and Dr Geoffrey Porges also sat on the Committee up to the dates of their respective retirement and resignation from the Board.
Sir Brian Richards chaired the Committee until the date of his retirement.
The remit of the Committee is to determine, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration and other benefits of all Executive Directors, including base salary, benefits, pension contributions, bonus payments, share based long-term incentives and service contracts.
During the year, the Committee appointed New Bridge Street Consultants, an independent professional organisation specialising in providing advice on executive remuneration issues, employee share schemes and pensions, as its advisors.
The advice provided by New Bridge Street Consultants materially assisted the Committee.
Additionally, New Bridge Street Consultants provided advice to the Company on the day-to-day operation of the Companys share option plans.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary also materially assisted the Committee in its discussions except in relation to their own remuneration.
Policy on Executive Director remuneration The Committee is aware that it must both attract and retain individuals of the highest calibre.
It therefore aims to ensure that remuneration packages are competitive with comparable publicly listed companies and that they fairly and responsibly reward individuals for their contribution to the success of the Group.
A significant proportion of directors remuneration is performance related through annual bonus, share options and long-term incentive plan awards.
Components of Executive Directors remuneration Basic salary and benefits In determining the basic salary of each Director, the Committee takes into account the individuals responsibilities and pay levels are set in the light of independent assessment of market practices.
Base salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed annually and compared to salary levels in a group of comparably sized biotechnology companies placing Acambis at or about the median.
For US-based Executive Directors, salary levels in companies of a similar size to Acambis Inc. are also reviewed for comparative purposes.
Salary reviews take account of all responsibility changes.
Benefits comprise car allowance, private healthcare, life assurance, permanent health insurance, private telephone and the use of company assets.
Annual bonus Bonuses are non-pensionable and based on a percentage of basic salary, up to a maximum of 50%.
Bonuses are paid, at the discretion of the Committee, in recognition of each Directors contribution to the success of the Group.
Objectives are set that are considered to be both challenging and realistic.
For 2003, the performance metrics on which bonus payments will be assessed are a mix of financial, product development and business development targets.
The Acambis Share Incentive Plan see page 62 permits Directors to elect to receive up to 50% of their annual bonus in Acambis shares.
Such shares must be held for at least one year and, after such time, the Directors will be entitled to receive one matching share for every four shares held.
No performance conditions are applied to these matching shares as the amount of any bonus invested has itself already been performance tested.
Matching at this level is offered to encourage Executive Directors to participate in, and to link their annual bonus to, share ownership.
Long-term incentives The Committee principally seeks to incentivise Executive Directors by offering participation in share-based long term incentive schemes.
Executive Directors currently participate in grants of share options under the Acambis 1999 Share Option Plan and in grants of performance shares under the Acambis Share Incentive Plan.
These plans and the performance conditions that apply to awards under these plans are described in more detail on pages 59 and 62.
The Committee has established a policy that it believes is balanced whereby Executive Directors can receive an annual grant of options of up to one times base salary per annum granted in two half-yearly tranches and an annual grant of performance shares of up to one times base salary per annum.
The Committee intends to consult leading institutional shareholders should it wish to alter this policy in future to allow additional grants to be made.
The Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and maintain interests in Acambis shares, thereby aligning their interests with other shareholders.
In 2001 and 2002, Executive Directors voluntarily retained the balance of shares acquired through share option and performance share exercises, taking account of liabilities arising from the exercise of awards, including tax.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to consider introducing formal shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors during 2003.
Shareholders approval is being sought at the 2003 Annual General Meeting for amendments to the Companys share option plans.
The amendments will include a new individual limit for the Companys share option plans such that an employee or Executive Director may be granted discretionary options in any year over shares with a market value, at the date of option grant, of up to two times base salary.
This limit may be extended if the participant has been recruited, in which case the limit will be four times base salary within 12 months of joining, or exceptionally at the discretion of the Committee eight times base salary if the participant is based in the US and forfeits vested options with a previous employer by reason of joining Acambis.
The new limit will enable the Company to continue to make grants of options in line with its policy of making regular annual grants of options at levels up to one times base salary per annum.
The proposed two times base salary annual limit is generally in line with UK market practice where companies seek to operate option plans on a phased annual basis.
The Company wishes, however, to retain the flexibility to make higher awards in the case of recruitment.
Further amendments are proposed to introduce a new limit on the number of shares that are available for all share plans so that during the five years from the date of the AGM a further 5% of issued share capital may be used for the Companys share plans and to allow the Companys share plans to operate during that period.
This new 5% in five years limit will give the Company the flexibility it needs to continue to operate its share plans over a foreseeable period and will allow the Company to continue to offer meaningful participation in share plans to all employees.
Pension scheme In the UK, the Company operates a self-administered, defined contribution, Inland Revenue-approved pension scheme for the Executive Directors including Gordon Cameron who is currently based in the US.
The Company contributes 18% of base salary into this scheme on behalf of each Executive Director.
No other benefits are pensionable.
In the US, the Group offers a 401k Savings and Retirement Plan for all employees, including Executive Directors.
Participants may contribute up to 15% of their annual compensation into the plan.
The Company can make discretionary matching contributions, up to a maximum of 3% of base salary.
Pension costs for each Director are shown on page 58.
Directors service contracts Details of the service contracts of those who served as Directors during the year are: Director Contract date Notice period Executive: Dr John Brown 1 March 1997 12 months Gordon Cameron 1 March 1997 12 months Nicolas Higgins 29 November 1996 12 months Dr Thomas Monath 12 March 2002 12 months Non-executive: Alan Smith 1 January 1998 3 months Alan Dalby 25 March 1998 3 months Michael Lytton 12 March 2001 3 months 1 Dr Geoffrey Porges 12 March 2001 3 months 2 Sir Brian Richards 1 March 1997 3 months Victor Schmitt 4 December 2000 See note 3 Notes 1 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
2 Sir Brian Richards retired from the Board on 30 May 2002.
3 Mr Schmitts appointment would end under certain circumstances in conjunction with the reduction of Baxters shareholding in Acambis, or the termination or breach of the subscription agreement between Baxter and the Company dated 19 September 2000.
All Executive Directors have contracts with twelvemonth notice periods in line with the Combined Code recommendations.
On early termination of contract, an Executive Director would be entitled to basic salary and benefits for the notice period.
The Committee believes that in the event of early termination of an Executive Directors contract it is appropriate to examine the specific circumstances of each case.
Where appropriate, the Committee may agree to a phased payment of compensation over a fixed term.
During this term, if the Executive Director were to find a new position payments would cease.
The Committee does, however, reserve the right to make a payment in lieu of any period of notice.
57 Non-executive Directors are entitled to their fees during any notice period.
58 REMUNERATION REPORT Components of Executive Directors remuneration continued External appointments The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to take up non-executive directorships or public service appointments and that these can broaden the experience and knowledge of the Director, from which the Company will benefit.
Accordingly, subject to Board approval, they may accept non-executive appointments, as long as these are not likely to lead to a conflict of interest and are allowed to retain any fees paid.
Non-executive Directors fees and terms The Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Board on the basis of independent advice on current levels in similar businesses.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pensions, incentives or any similar payments other than out-of-pocket travel and accommodation costs in connection with the performance of their duties.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Companys long-term incentive schemes, nor do they receive pension contributions or a bonus.
Directors remuneration audited The total remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2002 was 1.0m 2001 1.2m and comprised salaries, benefits, bonuses, pension contributions and Non-executive Director fees.
2 During the year Mr Cameron received 41,168 in addition to the above remuneration, in relation to his living expenses whilst located in the US.
3 Dr Monath was appointed to the Board on 12 March 2002.
Amounts in 2002 represent the period from the date of his appointment.
4 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
5 Sir Brian Richards retired from the Board on 31 May 2002.
Amounts in 2002 represent the period up to the date of his retirement.
6 Mr Schmitt, under the terms of his appointment, does not receive fees.
7 Payments to former Directors relates to amounts paid to Dr Gordon during 2001.
Dr Gordon resigned from the Board on 31 March 2001.
6e Directors interests The Directors who held office at 31 December 2002 had the following beneficial interests in the shares of the Company: Number of ordinary 10p shares Number of ordinary 10p shares held 31 December 2002 held 31 December 2001 Dr John Brown 305,245 239,602 1 Gordon Cameron 163,849 22,750 Alan Dalby 5,000 5,000 Nicolas Higgins 205,978 201,936 Michael Lytton 8,120 5,420 Dr Thomas Monath - - 2 Dr Geoffrey Porges 8,100 5,420 Victor Schmitt - - Alan Smith 1,800 1,800 Notes 1 133,711 of the shares owned by Mr Cameron are held in Trust on his behalf by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust.
2 Dr Porges resigned from the Board on 22 January 2003.
Individually, each of the Directors beneficially owns less than 1% of the total issued share capital.
As at 31 December 2002, the Directors had no interests in shares of any other Group company.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current Directors in the share capital of the Company since 31 December 2002.
The Executive Directors also have an interest as potential beneficiaries in 589,685 ordinary shares held at 27 March 2003 by the Trustees of the Acambis Employees Trust.
6e Share options audited All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys share option schemes.
The share option schemes consist of an Inland Revenue-approved executive scheme and unapproved executive schemes.
The grant of options under the current executive schemes the 1996 Scheme and the 1999 plan as defined below is at the discretion of the Committee and their exercise is subject to performance conditions.
Grants to be made in 2003 will be subject to performance conditions relating to the performance of Acambis total shareholder return TSR compared to a comparator group of other companies within the industry.
The Committee has chosen this group as being the most appropriate for Acambis given that Acambis is a constituent of this sector.
The Committee did consider the appropriateness of including selected US biotechnology companies, and will continue to review this in future years.
59 60 REMUNERATION REPORT Components of Executive Directors remuneration continued Share options audited continued The TSR condition seeks to align the interests of executives with the interests of shareholders by requiring superior relative TSR performance compared with direct biotechnology competitors before options can be exercised.
The maximum allocation of shares would be achieved if Acambis is ranked in the upper quartile of the comparator group, being prorated down to a 30% allocation at a ranking at the median for options granted from September 2001 until the end of 2002, the proportion of shares vesting at the median was 50%.
No allocation will be made if Acambis ranking falls below the median.
The performance condition is measured initially over a three-year period beginning at the date of grant and, if not initially achieved in full, can be further measured over a four-year period measured from the same fixed base point.
Options granted from September 2001 until the end of 2002 also allow for re-testing over a five-year period.
For the purposes of TSR calculation, the Companys TSR will be averaged over the three months preceding the commencement of the period and the three months preceding a measurement date to ensure that results are not influenced by short-term volatility.
From 2003, grants to Executive Directors will be subject to an additional performance condition that requires the Committee to be satisfied that there has been improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant performance period.
The Company also operates an Inland Revenue-approved savings-related scheme, which is available generally to all UK employees, provided they enter into savings contracts.
The Directors who held office at 31 December 2002 hold options to acquire ordinary shares of the Company under the Acambis 1995 Unapproved Share Option Scheme 1995 Scheme, the Acambis 1996 Approved Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme, the Acambis 1995 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme, the Acambis 1999 Share Option Plan 1999 Plan, the OraVax 1990 Stock Incentive Plan 1990 US Scheme and the OraVax 1995 Stock Incentive Plan 1995 US Scheme, as shown in the table below.
Following the introduction of the 1999 Plan in October 1999, no further issues of options will be made under the 1995 Scheme, the 1990 US Scheme or the 1995 US Scheme.
