Remuneration Report Remuneration :79 Report Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of Michael Price committee chairman, Sir John Carter, Robert Speirs and Paul Reichmann.
To the extent that Michael Price is not an independent non-executive director and Paul Reichmann is an executive director, the composition of the Remuneration Committee did not comply with the provisions of the Combined Code for the year ended 30 June 2002.
Since the year end, however, Paul Reichmann has stood down from the Remuneration Committee and the directors believe that the composition of the committee is appropriate and in the interests of the company.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on the framework of executive remuneration and for determining the specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The committee has access to professional advice from appropriate internal and external sources.
Remuneration Policy It is recognised that the ability to recruit, retain and motivate executives and senior managers of the highest calibre is essential to the success of the group.
The overall remuneration structure is therefore designed to provide competitive packages within the context of the property sector.
The remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers is based on the following guidelines: Total rewards will be set at levels to attract, motivate and retain high-calibre staff having regard to any special expertise or particular market requirements.
Performance-related elements of remuneration should form a significant proportion of the total remuneration package of executive directors and should be designed to align their interests with those of shareholders and to give such executive directors incentives to perform at the highest levels.
In determining such executive remuneration, the committee will be sensitive to a wide range of factors, including pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the group and the property sector generally, especially when determining annual salary increases.
Incentive plans, performance targets and conditions will be structured to be rigorous through all stages of the development of the Canary Wharf estate.
The individual components of the remuneration packages of the executive directors and senior managers seeks to balance long and short term goals in three elements: base salary and benefits, an annual bonus and long term incentive arrangements.
These components are reviewed each year to ensure that they are supportive of the groups business objectives and in the creation of shareholder value.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Remuneration Report 80: Remuneration Report An outline of current practice with regard to each component is set out below: Base Salary and Benefits Base salary consists of a fixed sum which recognises the worth of an executive director or senior manager in terms of on going market value.
The base salary of executive directors is reviewed annually by the committee having regard to individual performance and the performance of the group relative to its competitors and the practice of comparative companies.
All employees including executive directors are eligible to participate in employment related benefits, principally life insurance, private medical heath insurance and the Canary Wharf 2001 All Employee Share Plan.
Annual Bonuses The annual bonus is designed to encourage executive directors and senior managers to achieve the highest level of corporate and personal performance.
The awards are not contractual and are subject to the committees consideration of individual and corporate performance against industry practice and factors affecting the overall property market.
Details of the directors annual remuneration before tax is set out in Note 9 2.
Long Term Incentive Arrangements Executive Share Option Plans The schemes detailed below are in all material respects on the same terms as those which existed under the former Canary Wharf Group plc.
The company has adopted two executive share option plans, the Canary Wharf Group plc Company Share Option Plan, which is Inland Revenue approved, and the unapproved Canary Wharf Group plc 1997 Executive Share Option Plan.
Both schemes are discretionary and are designed to incentivise executive long term performance.
No payment is required on the grant of an option and an option may be granted over newly issued or existing shares in the company.
Performance Criteria Since March 1999 the above plans are subject to performance conditions as follows: Performance Condition A: Provides that vesting of the options is conditional on the achievement of the following annual total shareholder returns TSR calculated by reference to the growth in the share price from grant of the options on a compound basis as set out below: TSR average over a one month period Total of options available for vesting 15% All 12% Two-thirds 10% One-third Below 10% Nil In April 2002 following the achievement of a TSR of 10% one third of the options vested.
In May 2002 following achievement of a TSR of 12% a further third vested.
The performance condition, however, requires that the options vesting may only be exercised in three equal tranches over three years from 2002.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Remuneration Report :81 Performance Condition B: Options subject to this condition may only be exercised after 1 January 2006, and are subject to achievement of the TSR targets specified in Performance Condition A see above from grant to January 2006.
These options are also subject to an additional condition requiring the completion of 90% of properties identified in the listing particulars and the leasing of 90% of the said completed properties.
Performance conditions A and B are designed to provide a direct long term link between the rewards of the executive directors and senior managers and the returns to shareholders.
An earlier grant was made in 1998 which became exercisable in tranches on 1 April 1999.
Out of the 9,954,000 options granted, 3,173,500 remain outstanding.
Details of the executive directors share options set out in Note 9 3.
Other Employee Share Plans Long Term Incentive Plan In 1999 the company introduced the Canary Wharf Long Term Incentive Plan under which allocations may be made to senior managers and employees who do not participate in the executive share option schemes.
Executive directors are not eligible to participate in this plan.
Qualifying employees are entitled to receive an award of ordinary shares three years after the date of grant, subject to the following performance criteria: Performance Criteria Grants made in 1999 are subject to the company being in the top 50% of those in the FTSE property index at the date of the award.
This condition was satisfied in April 2002.
Grants made in 2000 require that at least 90% of the total space identified in the listing particulars shall be constructed or under construction and that at least 90% of that space shall have been committed for.
Canary Wharf 2001 All Employee Share Plan the Plan This Inland Revenue approved plan is open to all executive directors and employees who have been with the group for more than six months.
Under the Plan, employees may save up to 125 per month which the Plan administrators use to purchase shares in the company.
The company matches these purchases on a two for one basis.
The shares acquired are held in trust for not less than three years at which time they may be withdrawn from the trust.
Five years after the date of acquisition the shares may be taken out of the trust free of tax.
Under the terms of the Plan over the period to 30 June 2002, employees had acquired 252,263 shares and the group acquired a further 502,354 shares which were held on behalf of these employees.
Canary Wharf Share Participation Plan On 12 April 2002, a total of 169,176 shares held under the Canary Wharf Share Participation Plan vested in 383 employees.
The shares were acquired by Canary Wharf Trustees Limited in April 1999 as trustees at a subscription price of 331.5 pence per share.
No further shares are held and it is not envisaged that there will be any further allocations under this plan.
Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002 Remuneration Report 82: Remuneration Report Pensions The group operates two defined contribution pension schemes.
The assets of those schemes are held independently.
None of the executive directors at 30 June 2002 were members of the schemes.
In February 2001 George Iacobescu left the companys defined contribution scheme and elected to receive a monthly payment equivalent to an additional 12.5% in salary.
Up to the date of his withdrawal, the company contributed 24,265 to George Iacobescus defined contribution pension scheme.
Executive Directors Service Contracts No executive director has a service contract containing a notice entitlement exceeding one year and all executive directors are subject to retirement by rotation every three years in accordance with the companys articles of association.
None of the executive directors have a service contract which provides for pre-determined amounts of compensation on termination of contract.
The company applies the principle of mitigation in the event of early termination.
Non-Executive Directors The fees payable to the non-executive directors are considered and approved by the entire board and reflect the responsibilities and time spent by the directors on the affairs of the company.
The basic fee had not been changed since 1999 and was becoming out of line with market levels.
Therefore with effect from 5 March 2002 the board increased the non-executive fees by 5,000 to 30,000 per annum.
At the same time the fee for the senior non-executive director increased from 50,000 to 60,000 per annum.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts nor do they participate in any of the share incentive schemes.
They are, however, all subject to retirement by rotation or removal by ordinary resolution, in accordance with the articles of association of the company.
MICHAEL PRICE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Canary Wharf Group plc Report & Financial Statements 2002
