33 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Remuneration Report For The Year Ended 31 December 2002 This report has been prepared pursuant to the Directors Remuneration In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules issued by the Financial the Committee has followed the provisions in Schedule A to the Services Authority.
The Boards objective is to make the Company the most customer Remuneration Committees Composition and Scope focused financial services provider in the UK bar none.
To deliver The Board Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises this strategy, remuneration arrangements will continue to focus on the following five non-executive directors: incentive plans that encourage delivery of operating plans as well as shareholder value, rather than just annual salary.
Mr M P S Barton Chairman and senior independent non-executive director Thus for 2003 and beyond, annual salary will continue to be set Mr M J Allen at market median to remain competitive in the market place, while bonuses and long term incentive plans will reect market upper The Hon D. Brougham quartile competitive levels and be based on delivery of targets and Miss F A Cairncross Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Mr J R Windeler Performance Graph Mr G N Corah, who retired from the Board on 23 January 2002, The performance graph below shows the Companys performance was a member of the Committee until his retirement.
Mr Windeler in comparison with the FTSE 100 Index over the five years ended was appointed to the Committee on 25 July 2002.
The FTSE 100 Index was chosen as it is a broad of the Committee served throughout 2002. equity market index consisting of companies of similar complexity The Secretary of the Committee is Mr J Hepplewhite, Company and size to the Company.
Secretary, who is appointed by the Board and who minutes proceedings TSR: Alliance & Leicester v FTSE 100 of the Committee, submits reports and provides professional assistance 01.01.98 31.12.02 to the Committee on governance issues.
The Committee was also assisted by Mr Windeler whilst he was Executive Chairman and Mr R A Pym 160 Group Chief Executive in relation to those directors who reported to them.
Mr G A Ledward, the Companys director of Human Resources 140 also provided assistance to the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for determining, pursuant to a policy 120 framework on executive remuneration agreed by the Board, the pay and benets and contractual arrangements of each executive director and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
100 Within the parameters set by the Board, individual performanceTSR Movement in share price plus reinvested dividends related payments and share awards are made by the Committee with 80 Alliance & Leicester the objective of rewarding achievements and aligning the interests of '98 '99 '00 '01 '02 FTSE 100 the individual with those of the Groups shareholders.
The individual salary, bonus and benefit levels of executive directors are normally Remuneration for Executive Directors reviewed annually by the Committee and due consideration is given to advice from independent advisers.
The independent advisers The main components of the remuneration package for executive directors are: appointed by the Committee during 2002 were Towers Perrin for general remuneration advice and comparator information, and Basic salary Mercer Human Resource Consulting specically for pension-related Basic salary for executive directors takes into account the role, issues.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting also provide , performance and experience of the individual.
This related financial advice to the Company.
Ernst & Young LLP were is normally reviewed annually unless responsibilities change, and appointed by the Company with the agreement of the Committee salary levels are set against background information from independent and provided specialist advice to the Committee in relation to the advisers on salary levels for similar positions amongst a specific Groups Share Schemes.
comparator group of financial organisations and with due regard to general salary trends within companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The Statement of Remuneration Policy and its Development current comparator group comprises: The broad policy of the Board and the Remuneration Committee remains Abbey National plc Aviva plc to set remuneration so as to attract and retain high calibre executives and Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc to encourage and reward superior business performance.
Remuneration Britannic Assurance plc Egg plc for executive directors should reward both individual and company Friends Provident plc HBOS plc performance measured against performance criteria that are relevant and HSBC Holdings plc Legal & General plc realistic but also challenging, so that good performance is encouraged.
Lloyds TSB Group plc Prudential plc Of the total remuneration package of executive directors, a significant The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Zurich Financial Services proportion should relate directly to the performance of the Group and Annual bonus the share price performance.
This accords with the objective of both At the discretion of the Committee, executive directors are eligible the Board and the Committee to ensure a sufciently direct and clearly to receive an annual performance bonus.
dened line of sight i. e. a clear relationship between actions and the corresponding level of reward received, in order to deliver successful Bonuses are contingent on achievement of one year performance implementation of the Groups strategy to maximise shareholder value.
targets set annually by the Committee.
These comprise a mix of That strategy focuses on business development and rigorous control of corporate targets revenue growth, cost reduction, pre-tax profit costs, with customer service as a key differentiator.
Under Committee and growth in Earnings per Share EPS and individual personal guidelines agreed in 2001 each executive director is required to build performance targets.
The level of bonus for on-target performance for up over a period of five years, and retain, whilst a director, a minimum 2002 and beyond is 60% of salary, with a maximum of 200% of salary holding of shares in the Company with a value of the order of his for exceptional performance amounts over 100% of salary would be annual basic salary.
taken in the form of deferred shares under the Deferred Bonus Scheme 34 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Remuneration Report continued For The Year Ended 31 December 2002 see below, but without any matching element.
Bonuses are The current constituents of the peer group, excluding the discretionary and are non-pensionable.
Company, are: In order to encourage executive directors to build up a significant Abbey National plc Barclays Bank plc personal stake in the Company, they may be required to receive oneBradford & Bingley plc HBOS plc quarter of their annual bonus in the form of a deferred shares option Lloyds TSB Group plc Northern Rock plc award which the Company will match if related performance criteria The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc are achieved see below under Long-Term Incentive Schemes.
For These banks have been chosen because they are all in the financial 2003, executive directors will be able to voluntarily defer up to 100% services sector and are broadly comparable in the range of activities of their annual bonus to a maximum of 100% of salary for this undertaken.
Awards only begin to vest when median performance purpose.
This also acts as a retention tool and ensures executive relative to the peer group is achieved, with linear progression from one directors share a significant level of personal risk with the Companys matching share at median performance up to three matching shares for shareholders.
The rights to deferred shares cannot normally be upper quartile performance.
The rights to matching shares, as detailed exercised for three years and lapse if not exercised within seven on page 38, cannot normally be exercised for three years and lapse if years.
If a director leaves before the third anniversary of the grant, not exercised within seven years.
Total Shareholder Return is considered the Trustees to the Scheme may exercise their discretion in allowing by the Committee to be a suitable measure for this type of scheme, the options over deferred shares to be exercised.
Deferred shares as it provides clear links with the creation of shareholder value.
are not awarded within two years of an individuals 60th birthday.
Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme options may be exercised prior to Long-term incentive schemes the third anniversary of the date of grant where the executive director There are share schemes for executive directors designed to align ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, ill-health, disability, the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders: retirement or at the discretion of the Trustees to the Scheme based Share options on the recommendation of the Committee in any other circumstances.
Each executive director is eligible for the grant of options under the Performance conditions apply unless waived by the Committee.
Alliance & Leicester Approved and Unapproved Company Share Option Performance conditions are not subject to re-testing and are normally Schemes.
The price at which shares can be acquired on exercise of subject to a three year performance period.
options is the market value of the shares on the day prior to the date of Employee share schemes grant.
Accordingly, the share price has to rise above the price at which Executive directors may also participate in the Companys existing the option is granted before an executive director can benefit.
Employee Share Schemes, including the Savings Related Share Option The aggregate value of new shares for which options to subscribe may Scheme and the Companys Share Incentive Plan on the same basis as be granted to each executive director in any year, cannot normally all other employees.
There are no performance conditions attached to exceed a maximum total annual award of two times basic salary, with these schemes.
a power for the Committee to increase this up to four times basic Pensions salary if it considers that this is warranted in exceptional circumstances.
Executive directors are members of the dened benefit section of the Annual grants have typically been in relation to shares valued at up to Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme which has a normal retirement one times basic salary two times for new appointments, with the age of 60. grants being made in two tranches following the final and interim results.
Options cannot normally be exercised for three years from the The main features of the pension promise for executive directors based on the standard terms of the Scheme, are: date of grant.
From 2002, the current performance condition applied to grants is that options are exercisable if the percentage growth in EPS a Pensions from age 60 of 1 60th of basic salary averaged over exceeds the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI by at least 9% over the last twelve months prior to retirement for each year of a three year period earlier grants have used a percentage between 6% pensionable service.
The Committee reviews this condition before each new grant b A cash benefit on death in service of 4x annual rate of basic salary paying due regard to market practice.
The Committee considers this at date of death.
performance condition to be suitable and appropriate as a means of focusing executive directors on generating earnings growth and c Pensions payable in the event of ill-health.
No options are awarded within two d Pensions for dependants on a members death are generally years of an individuals 60th birthday.
equal to half the members prospective retirement pension at Vesting of options is normally after three years and from 2002 there 60 on death in service, or half the members pension entitlement is the opportunity to measure performance again only after years four on death in retirement.
and five, calculated from the base grant year and based on EPS growth Member contributions are 5% of basic salary.
of RPI 12% year 4 or RPI 15% year 5 for earlier grants the period to be measured is any three year period.
The following directors have special arrangements: Under the rules of the share option schemes, options are exercisable a Mr Pym and Mr Bennett are entitled to a pension of 2 3rds prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant where an option of their final pensionable salary on retirement at age 60 inclusive holder ceases to be employed by the Company by reason of death, of retirement benets from service at other organisations.
injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement or transfer of the b Mr Pym is not required to contribute.
Mr Bennett contributes employing company outside the Group, or at the discretion of the 15% of the Earnings Cap.
Committee in any other circumstances.
Also, in these circumstances, any performance conditions attaching to the exercise of the options There is an unfunded unapproved pension arrangement to increase cease to apply.
the pension and lump sum life assurance benefit to the level promised, where, because of Inland Revenue limitations including those resulting Deferred bonus scheme from the Earnings Cap these cannot be paid in total from the Scheme.
Under the Alliance & Leicester Deferred Bonus Scheme, the Company Such arrangements apply to Mr Pym and Mr Bennett.
may match an award of deferred shares on the basis of up to three matched shares for each deferred share awarded.
The maximum On retirement from service an executive director may, with the matched award is given for upper quartile performance in terms of consent of the employer, draw his accrued pension from the Alliance the Total Shareholder Return measured relative to a peer group of & Leicester Pension Scheme at any time after his 50th birthday subject Retail Banks.
Total Shareholder Return measures the change in value to a reduction of 3% for each year by which retirement precedes his of a share and reinvested income over the period of measurement.
35 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Pensions in payment are subject to contractual increases each April Dates appear below of appointment periods: in line with the annual percentage rise in the RPI over the previous Date of Term Notice calendar year, subject to a maximum of 5%.
Appointment Expiry Periods Letter Date It is confirmed that there are no discretionary practices which are M J Allen 15 December 1999 1 February 2005 None taken into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
M P S Barton 13 May 1998 13 May 2003 None Other benefits The Hon D Brougham 3 May 2000 8 May 2003 None Executive directors are eligible for a range of benets which include F A Cairncross 18 August 1997 1 January 2004 None the provision of company cars, payment of car operating expenses G N Corah 18 August 1992 Expired None including fuel, concessionary mortgage facilities, life assurance and to 23.01.02 membership of a private medical insurance scheme.
R M McTighe 30 May 2000 1 June 2003 None Other directorships E J Watts 3 May 2000 8 May 2003 None The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take one non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company in order which may follow earlier renewals to broaden their experience.
They are entitled to retain any fees they Executive Directors have service contracts that continue until may receive.
terminated by twelve months notice but which in any event terminate on their 60th birthday.
Notice periods were reduced from the three Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors years applicable at the time of conversion to plc status to two years The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board without payment of compensation, and this process had continued as a whole in the light of recommendations by the Group Chief with the recently agreed reduction to twelve months notice periods Executive and within the limits specified in the Articles of Association which now apply to all executive directors contracts.
Towers Perrin assist with comparator information for Under the terms of existing service contracts, if the employment of this purpose.
an executive director is terminated by the Company for any reason Other benets for non-executive directors include the reimbursement other than due cause without notice being given, he is entitled to of travel and other incidental expenses for attendance at Board or receive payment of twelve months basic salary, his last annual bonus other meetings, in connection with the Companys business.
They or where no previous bonus was received a sum determined at the are not eligible for share options.
discretion of the Committee and twelve months pension benets plus an additional three months basic salary and pension benets at Until 1 June 2002 Mr Windeler Chairman combined the roles of the discretion of the Committee as a good leaver, or, an additional six Chairman and Chief Executive and was employed under a service months basic salary and pension benets where employment is contract dated 24 July 2000.
Following separation of these roles terminated by the Company within six months of a change of control Mr Windeler, as Chairman, has entered into a new contract dated of the Company.
No such payments of salary and pension benets, 2 September 2002, relating to his employment until his 60th birthday.
on termination by the Company, will in any event exceed a payment His contract is terminable on three months notice.
He is entitled to based on the number of months from the date of termination of a company car, non-exclusive use of a chauffeured car for business employment to the executive directors normal retirement date.
purposes, life assurance and membership of a private medical insurance scheme.
The executive directors may terminate their contracts of employment at any time by giving six months prior notice.
Mr Windeler is a member of the Dened benefit Section of the Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme with a normal retirement age of 60.
The Board will always consider best practice, industry guidelines He contributes 5% of the Earnings Cap and the unfunded pension and shareholder interests when negotiating contracts.
arrangements referred to earlier in this report apply to him also up The dates of the contracts for the executive directors are: to his 60th birthday.
Mr R A Pym 19 February 2003 Following his 60th birthday in March 2003 Mr Windeler will continue Mr R L Banks 19 February 2003 as a non-executive director on the basis of an appointment letter Mr D J Bennett 06 July 2000 similar to that applicable to other non-executive directors save that Mr C S Rhodes 03 January 2003 he will continue to enjoy the benefit of non-exclusive use of a chauffeured car and his appointment will be terminable on three months notice.
Whilst an executive director, he participated in the Long Term Incentive Schemes specified earlier in the report and such options continue to subsist.
No options have been, or will be, granted to any non-executive directors including Mr Windeler in their capacity as non-executive directors of the Company.
No payments were made during the year to third parties for the provision of the services of any non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors who are in full time employment with a third party employer may elect to pay the whole or part of their fees to it.
Service Contracts With the exception of Mr Windelers contract, the non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
On appointment they are issued with an appointment letter.
There are no provisions for compensation being payable upon the early termination of an appointment.
Appointments are normally for an initial three year period with the opportunity for the Board to consider renewals for two year periods thereafter.
36 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Remuneration Report continued For The Year Ended 31 December 2002 Executive Director R L Banks D J Bennett R A Pym C S Rhodes J R Windeler Audited Information Age attained Directors Remuneration at 31.12.02 51 40 53 39 59 Year ended 31 December 2002 Normal retirement age 60 60 60 60 60 Salaries Cash DeferredOther Total Total Amount of accrued Fees Bonus Bonus Benefits 2002 2001 pension p. a.
The options over these shares Mr Rhodes was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2002.
Figures shown relate to become exercisable after 3 years, if the director is still employed by the Company benets earned since or amounts as at 1 June 2002. or at the discretion of the Trustees, if he leaves the Company earlier.
More details can be found on page 34 of this report.
Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The beneficial interests of directors at the year-end in shares in Alliance Pension Entitlements & Leicester plc were: Details of terms and conditions associated with the pensions below are shown on page 34.
Fully Paid Shares of 50p each As at Mr G N Corah who retired on 23 January 2002 was entitled, as a 01.01.02 As at former director of the Companys predecessor Alliance & Leicester Directors or date of appointment if later 31.12.02 Building Society, to an unfunded unapproved arrangement providing M J Allen 500 500 for a pension and to the benefit of private medical insurance on R L Banks 3,732 8,127 retirement.
This obligation was transferred to the Company.
The M P S Barton 1,500 6,500 pension which had been fully accrued was payable from a retirement age of 70.
D J Bennett 3,314 5,913 The Hon D Brougham 3,000 5,000 F A Cairncross 12,014 12,714 R M McTighe 500 500 R A Pym 11,558 16,763 C S Rhodes from 01.06.02 3,930 8,088 E J Watts 500 5,000 J R Windeler 33,789 34,836 Directors share interests include the interests of their spouses and infant children, as required by Section 328 of the Companies Act 1985.
In addition to the beneficial interests in shares shown as at 31 December 2002, Mr R L Banks was allotted 2,984 shares on 10 January 2003 by the Trustees of the Deferred Bonus Scheme see footnote to the Long Term Incentive Scheme on page 38.
Also, Mr R L Banks, Mr D J Bennett, Mr R A Pym and Mr C S Rhodes were each allocated 101 shares in the capital of the Company by the Share Incentive Plan Trustee on 30 January 2003.
There were no other changes in the beneficial interests of the Directors in Company shares between 31 December 2002 and 14 February 2003.
On 31 December 2002 the market price of ordinary shares in Alliance & Leicester plc was 7.46 and the range during 2002 was 6.88 to 9.49.
No options have expired unexercised during 2002.
38 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Directors Remuneration Report continued For The Year Ended 31 December 2002 Bonus Awards The following table shows the directors interests in deferred share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme but does not include those subject to award in February 2003 as described on page 36 of this report.
The shares were allotted on 10 January 2003.
The matching share option granted in 1998 in respect of the 1997 bonus year was not subject to a performance objective.
This reected terms agreed at the time of the otation of the Company in 1997.
C S Rhodes deferred and matching shares were awarded prior to his appointment as a Director of the Company.
Only one matching share, which is not subject to a performance condition, may be awarded for each deferred share.
In the case of the 1998 and 1999 bonus years, a maximum of up to two matching shares for each deferred share may be awarded subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance ranking greater than 50th percentile against the TSR performance of two comparator groups namely the FTSE Retail Banks Index and the FTSE 100 Index with application on a linear basis of between zero for 50th percentile performance and two matching shares for the top 25th percentile performance.
# For the 2000 and 2001 bonus years when a maximum of up to 3 matching shares for each share may be awarded TSR performance is measured against the TSR performance of a single comparator group of Retail Banks see page 34.
Long Term Incentive Scheme The following table shows the directors interests in matching share options awarded under the deferred bonus scheme, with performance criteria attached but does not include those subject to award in February 2003 as described in page 36 of this report.
There were no variations in terms and conditions of the Scheme during the year.
The market value of shares awarded on 12 March 2002 was 8.37.
Option over 2,984 shares 1,884 bonus shares and 1,100 matched shares was exercised by R L Banks on 13 December 2002.
In the case of the 1999 bonus year, a maximum of up to two matching shares for each deferred share may be awarded subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance ranking greater than 50th percentile against the TSR performance of two comparator groups namely the FTSE Retail Banks Index and the FTSE 100 Index with application on a linear basis of between zero for 50th percentile performance and two matching shares for the top 25th percentile performance.
On behalf of the Board M P S Barton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 February 2003
