30 Directors remuneration report The directors remuneration report this year has a new format prepared by the remuneration committee.
Non-executive directors that is designed to comply with requirements introduced by the remuneration is in the second part, which was prepared by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report company secretary on behalf of the board.
covers all directors, both executive and non-executive.
The report has been approved by the board and signed on its The report, which is set out on pages 30 to 39, is divided into behalf by the company secretary.
This report is subject to the approval two parts.
Each part contains a section that is subject to audit.
of shareholders at the annual general meeting.
Executive directors remuneration is in the first part, which was Part 1 Executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder The remuneration committee places high value on the independence both of its decision-making processes and of the advice it receives.
Throughout a sometimes challenging year, this independence has enabled the committee to take decisions on executive director remuneration that properly align directors remuneration with the interests of shareholders while also meeting the imperative of retaining and engaging the world-class executive talent we are fortunate to have leading our company.
Our commitment to link pay to performance continues.
In 2002, the company produced strong results in many areas of the business, balanced by a few disappointments.
As you will see, the rating for the annual bonus for 2002, which assesses the full breadth of performance during the year, is some 11% lower than last year, reflecting good, but less favourable, overall performance this year.
The expected award of shares under the Long Term Performance Plan for the period 2000-2002 is less than half last years award.
Our approach to policy for 2003 will continue to be as for the past several years and will be underpinned by regular monitoring of remuneration policies and levels at competitor companies in Europe and the USA.
The Executive Directors Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders in April 2000, continues to be competitive and will again be used as last year.
Details of this plan are explained on pages 32 and 33.
In 2003, the committee will continue to review the remuneration plans that apply to executive directors to ensure they meet the dual needs of alignment with shareholders interests and of the retention and engagement of our executives.
Consistent with our well-established policy of transparency, any significant changes we feel are warranted will be brought to shareholders for approval at a future annual general meeting.
Full details of the 2002 remuneration of executive directors and all other information about executive directors required under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are contained in the committees report below.
Sir Robin Nicholson Chairman, Remuneration Committee 11 February 2003 This report sets out the companys policy on executive directors because the committee considers that a successful remuneration remuneration for 2003 and, so far as practicable, for subsequent policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future years.
The inclusion in the report of remuneration policy in respect of changes in BPs business environment and in remuneration practice.
years after 2003 is required by the legislation under which this report Any changes in policy for years after 2003 will be described in future is prepared.
directors remuneration reports, which will continue to be subject The remuneration committee is able to state its remuneration to shareholder approval.
All statements in this report in relation to policy for 2003 with reasonable certainty, but is less certain that this remuneration policy for years after 2003 should be read in the light policy will continue without amendment in subsequent years.
This is of this paragraph.
BP 2002 Directors remuneration report 31 The remuneration committee affecting his own remuneration were considered: Mr Iain Macdonald Tasks group vice president, planning, performance management and The committees tasks as set out in the board governance policies are: control, for the company, who provided to the committee some of the companys calculations for the performance-related pay To determine on behalf of the board the terms of engagement which were then subject to independent verification by Ernst and remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive & Young as auditors: Mr Aronson: Miss Hanratty company directors and to report on those to the shareholders.
secretary : and Mrs Sarah Martin senior counsel, company To determine on behalf of the board matters of policy over secretarys office.
Only Mr Aronson among those above was which the company has authority relating to the establishment appointed by the committee.
or operation of the companys pension scheme of which the Towers Perrin who, during 2002, have been the committees executive directors are members.
principal advisers on matters of executive directors remuneration To nominate on behalf of the board any trustees or directors and who also provided some ad hoc remuneration and benefits of corporate trustees of such scheme.
advice to parts of the group, mainly comprising pensions advice To monitor the policies being applied by the group chief executive in Canada: Kepler Associates, who advised on the selection of the in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors.
shareholder return against the market performance benchmark for the Executive Directors Incentive Plan and tracked BPs Constitution and operation performance against this benchmark they provided a similar The committee members are all non-executive directors.
The service in relation to the Long Term Performance Plan for senior membership throughout 2002 was: Sir Robin Nicholson chairman, executives : Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, Allen & Overy and Mr Davis, Dr Julius, Mr Knight and Sir Ian Prosser.
Like other Martin Moore, QC, all of whom provided legal advice on specific directors, each member of the committee is subject to re-election matters to the committee and who provide ad hoc legal advice to every three years.
They have no personal financial interest, other than the group: and Ernst & Young in their capacity as auditors, who as shareholders, in the committees decisions.
They have no conflicts reviewed and reported to the committee on the calculations of of interest arising from cross-directorships with the executive BPs performance in respect of financial targets that form the directors nor from being involved in the day-to-day business of the basis for performance-related pay for the executive directors, and company.
The committee met five times in the period under review.
who also provide audit, audit-related and taxation services to the In its constitution and operation the committee complies with group.
All the above were appointed separately by the committee the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
It is accountable or the secretary to the committee to provide the advice or to shareholders through its annual report on executive directors services that it sought, except for Kepler Associates, who were remuneration.
The committee will consider the outcome of the vote appointed by the group chief executive and subsequently provided on the remuneration report, and the views of investors will be taken information to the remuneration committee.
into account by the committee in its future decisions.
Policy on executive directors remuneration Advice Main principles Advice is provided to the committee by the company secretarys The remuneration committees reward policy reflects its obligation office, which is independent of executive management and reports to align executive directors remuneration with shareholders interests to the non-executive chairman.
Mr Gerrit Aronson, who is an and to engage world-class executive talent for the benefit of the independent consultant within the company secretarys office, was group.
The main principles of the policy are: appointed in 2000 by the committee as its secretary and special adviser.
He does not provide any other services to the group.
Total rewards should be set at appropriate levels to reflect The committee, in consultation with Mr Aronson and the company the competitive global market in which BP operates.
secretary, also appoints external professional advisers to provide The majority of the total reward should be linked to the specialist advice and services on particular remuneration matters.
achievement of demanding performance targets.
This allows for a range of external independent opinion to be sourced Executive directors incentives should be aligned with the by the committee.
This advice is then subject to an independent interests of ordinary shareholders.
This is achieved through setting review by Mr Aronson.
The committee assesses the advice it performance targets that are based on measures of shareholders receives, applying its own judgement.
Procedures to ensure the interests and through the committees policy that each executive independence of advice are subject to annual review.
director should hold a significant shareholding in the company, During 2002, the following people provided advice or services currently equivalent to 5 x the directors base salary.
on specific matters to the committee that materially assisted it The performance targets in the Executive Directors Incentive Plan in its consideration of matters relating to executive directors should encompass demanding comparisons of BPs shareholder remuneration: returns and earnings with those of other companies in its own industry and in the broader marketplace.
Mr Sutherland chairman : Lord Browne group chief executive, The wider scene, including pay and employment conditions who was consulted on matters relating to the other executive elsewhere in the group, should be taken into account, especially directors who report to him and on matters relating to the when determining annual salary increases.
He was not present when matters 32 Elements of remuneration 1.
Share element The executive directors total remuneration consists of salary, annual The share element permits the remuneration committee to grant bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
This reward performance units to executive directors, which may result in an structure is regularly reviewed by the committee to ensure that it award of shares without payment by the directors at the end of a is achieving its objectives.
In 2003, over three-quarters of executive three-year performance period if demanding performance conditions directors potential direct remuneration will again be performanceare met.
The maximum number of shares that may be awarded for related see illustrative chart below.
It is intended that this balance each performance unit is two.
Shares awarded are then held in trust for three years before they are released to the individual.
This gives the executive directors a six-year incentive structure, and ensures their interests are aligned base salary with those of shareholders.
performance-related annual bonus Timeline for 2003-2005 EDIP share element performance-related long-term incentives include a share element and options Performance period Retention period The above elements are valued at on-target Grant Award Release basis.
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Salary Each executive director receives a fixed sum payable monthly in cash.
The committee expects to review salaries later in 2003 in line with The share element compares BPs performance against the oil and global markets.
The appropriate survey groups are defined and gas sector over three years on a rolling basis.
This is assessed in terms analysed by external remuneration advisers.
of a three-year total shareholder return against the market SHRAM, return on average capital employed ROACE and earnings per share Annual bonus growth, based on pro forma results adjusted for special items EPS.
Each executive director is eligible to participate in an annual SHRAM is the primary measure, accounting for nearly two-thirds of the performance-based bonus scheme.
The remuneration committee potential total award.
All calculations are reviewed by the auditors to reviews and sets bonus targets and levels of eligibility annually.
ensure that they meet an independent objective standard.
The relative The target level is 100% of base salary except for Lord Browne, position of the company within the comparator group determines the for whom, as group chief executive, it is considered appropriate to number of shares awarded per performance unit.
There is a stretch level of 150% of base salary For the 2001-2003 plan, BPs three-year SHRAM is measured for substantially exceeding targets.
Executive directors annual bonus against the other oil majors: ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf and awards for 2003 will again be based on a mix of demanding financial ChevronTexaco.
Due to the reduced number of oil majors, for the targets and other leadership objectives, established at the beginning 2002-2004 and 2003-2005 plans BPs three-year SHRAM is measured of the year.
In addition to business performance, they cover areas against the companies in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
such as people, safety, environment and organization.
Companies within the index are weighted according to their market capitalization at the beginning of each three-year period in order to Long-term incentives give greatest emphasis to oil majors.
Long-term incentives are provided under the Executive Directors The committee reviews and approves annually the performance Incentive Plan EDIP, which was approved by shareholders in April measures and the comparator companies.
It has three elements: a share element, a share option element for the foreseeable future is to continue with the SHRAM measure and a cash element.
Each executive director participates in this plan.
adopted by the committee in relation to the 2002-2004 and The committees policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, is that 2003-2005 plans.
this should continue until the plan expires or is renewed in 2005.
BPs ROACE and EPS for all the plans since April 2001 are, The committees policy for 2003 is to continue to use only the share and for the foreseeable future will be, measured against ExxonMobil, element and the share option element.
The committees policy that Shell, TotalFinaElf and ChevronTexaco.
each executive director should hold shares equivalent to 5 x the directors base salary is reflected in the terms of the plan.
Share option element The performance conditions in the share element and share The share option element of the EDIP is designed to reflect BPs option element of the EDIP were selected to ensure that executive performance relative to a wider selection of global companies.
It directors long-term remuneration under the EDIP is appropriately has a disclosed three-year pre-grant performance requirement that balanced between elements testing BPs performance against differentiates it from traditional share option schemes.
Under this that of competitors in the oil industry and elements testing BPs element, options may be granted to executive directors at an exercise performance against that of the leading global companies.
price no lower than the market value as determined in accordance BP 2002 Directors remuneration report 33 with the plan rules of a share at the date the option is granted.
Service contracts Reflecting the pre-grant performance requirement, options vest over Policy three years after grant one-third each after one, two and three years The committees policy on executive directors service contracts is respectively.
They have a life of seven years after grant.
for them to contain a maximum notice period of one year.
To reflect In accordance with the framework approved by shareholders current market practice, Lord Browne has agreed to reduce the notice in 2000, it is the committees policy to continue exercising its period in his contract to one year and it has been amended to reflect judgement to decide the number of options to be granted to each this.
All executive directors service contracts now either expire this executive director, taking into account BPs total shareholder return year or can be terminated on one years notice.
TSR compared with the TSR for the FTSE Global 100 group of Each service contract expires at the respective normal retirement companies over the three years preceding the grant.
The committee date of the director but is subject to earlier termination for cause will not grant options in any year unless the criteria for an award of or if notice is given under the contract.
shares under the share element have been met.
These methods of The contracts are designed to allow for flexibility to deal with calculation were chosen to enable the committee to take into account each case on its own particular merits in accordance with the law and not only the TSR position but also the underlying health of the policy as they have developed at the relevant time.
With effect from business and the competitive marketplace.
January 2003, the committee will include a provision in new service Following grant, the options are not subject to any performance contracts to allow for severance payments to be phased where conditions.
The remuneration committee favours this approach for appropriate to do so.
It will also consider mitigation to reduce two main reasons.
First, it has the effect of treating share options as compensation to a departing director where appropriate to do so.
a reward both for past performance because BPs ranking within a A large proportion of each executive directors total remuneration is comparator group will have been taken into account in determining linked to performance and therefore will not be payable to the extent the number of shares under option and as an incentive for future that the relevant targets are not met.
performance because the participants gain under the option will depend on share price growth after the grant under the option.
Specific contracts Second, BP operates internationally and the application of a Lord Brownes service contract with the company is dated performance condition after grant is not a feature of option schemes 11 November 1993.
It can be terminated by the company or by operated by major international companies based outside the UK.
Lord Browne by one years notice.
Dr Buchanans service contract with the company is dated 3.
Cash element 21 October 1998 and expires at his normal retirement date in The cash element allows the remuneration committee to grant cash June 2003. rather than share-based incentives in exceptional circumstances.
This Mr Chases service contract with the company is dated element was not used in 2002, and the committee has no present 30 November 1993 and expires at his normal retirement date intention to use it in 2003. in May 2003.
Dr Grotes service contract with BP Exploration Alaska Inc. Other benefits is dated 7 August 2000.
It can be terminated by that company Pension executive directors are eligible to participate in the or by Dr Grote by one years notice.
He is seconded to BP p. l. c. appropriate pension schemes applying in their home countries under a secondment agreement that is dated 7 August 2000.
31 December 2002, this secondment agreement had an unexpired Benefits and other share schemes executive directors are term of five years.
The secondment may be terminated by one eligible to participate in regular employee benefit plans and in months notice by either party and terminates automatically on the all-employee share schemes and savings plans applying in their termination of Dr Grotes service contract.
Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Mr Olvers service contract with the company is dated Resettlement allowance expatriates may receive a resettlement 31 December 1997.
It can be terminated by the company or by allowance for a limited period.
Mr Olver by one years notice.
The company may also terminate the contract at any time with immediate effect on payment in lieu New appointees of notice equivalent to one years salary or the amount of salary that Dr Allen, Dr Hayward and Mr Manzoni were appointed executive would have been paid if the contract had terminated on the expiry of directors on 1 February 2003, each on a base salary of 400,000 the remainder of the notice period.
They are subject to the committees policy on executive There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early directors remuneration, as described above.
As such, they will be termination of the above contracts.
In the event of early termination eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme and EDIP described under any of the above contracts by the company other than for cause above on a similar basis to the other executive directors.
or under a specific termination payment provision, the relevant directors then current salary and contractual benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the company.
The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the provision of a car or car allowance, pension and life insurance.
Annual bonuses and long-term incentives are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the relevant schemes.
Details in relation to Mr Fords contract are included on page 37.
34 This graph is included to meet the new requirement to show the Historical TSR performance growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. ordinary Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. ordinary shares over five years shares over five years relative to a broad equity market index.
The 170 FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index was considered by the remuneration 160 committee to be the most relevant index for this purpose as it relates 150 directly to BPs sector.
Amounts are shown in both US dollars and pounds sterling and are converted at the rate of 1 $1.44 for 2001 and 1 $1.50 for 2002.
Lord Browne, Mr Chase, Mr Olver and Dr Buchanan received their remuneration in pounds sterling: Dr Grote and Mr Ford in US dollars.
a Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust until 2006 when they are released to the individual.
b Based on closing price of BP shares on 11 February 2003 3.94 $5.91 at 1 $1.50.
c Based on average market price on date of award 5.695 $8.20 at 1 $1.44.
d Performance units granted under the 2002-2004 share element of the EDIP are converted to shares at the end of the performance period.
Maximum of two shares per performance unit.
e Options granted in February 2002 have a grant price of 5.715 per share.
Dr Grote holds options over ADSs: the above numbers and prices reflect calculated equivalents.
f Includes resettlement allowances for Dr Grote and Mr Ford of $300,000 and $110,000 respectively.
g Amounts for Dr Buchanan and Mr Ford reflect the eleven months and three months respectively that they were directors in 2002.
Salary Annual bonus In January 2002 base salaries for executive directors were increased The annual bonus awards for 2002 are based on a mix of financial by less than 10% per annum.
Base salaries have recently been targets and leadership objectives established at the beginning of the increased by 5% per annum both for Dr Grote on his promotion to year.
Assessment of all the targets resulted in a target performance chief financial officer and for Mr Olver on his promotion to deputy of 120 points out of a maximum of 150, which is some 11% lower group chief executive.
than the 135 points last year.
The resulting bonus awards are shown in the summary table above.
All calculations in relation to the annual bonus have been reviewed by the auditors.
During 2002, the highest market prices were 6.25 and $53.88 respectively, and the lowest market prices were 3.93 and $36.78 respectively.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2000 as described on pages 32-33.
The awards are made taking into consideration the ranking of the companys TSR against the TSR of the FTSE Global 100 group of companies over the three-year period prior to the grant.
As noted in last years report, for directors who retire after 1 January 2002, options that are vested at a directors retirement will now be preserved until the normal lapse date the seventh anniversary of grant.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
NRSO Amoco Non-Restricted Stock Option Plan, which applied to Mr Ford as an employee of Amoco.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
In keeping with the US market practice, none of the options under the BPA, NRSO and SAR is subject to performance conditions because they were granted under American plans to the relevant individuals and the NRSO options were awarded prior to Amocos merger with BP.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share option scheme.
These options are not subject to performance conditions because this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
a Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
b On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 21 November 2002. c On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 31 March 2002.
36 Long Term Performance Plans LTPPs and share element of EDIP For the 2000-2002 LTPP, BPs performance was assessed in Under the Long Term Performance Plans and the share element of terms of SHRAM, ROACE and EPS growth each relative to that of the EDIP, performance units are granted at the beginning of the period ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, ENI and Repsol-YPF.
and converted into an award of shares at the end of the three-year BPs SHRAM came in at sixth place among the comparator period, depending on performance.
There is a maximum of two shares group, fourth place on EPS growth and first place on ROACE.
Based on a performance assessment of 80 points out of 200, Since the adoption of the EDIP in April 2000, the executive the remuneration committee expects to make awards of shares directors have ceased to be eligible for grants under the BP share to executive directors as highlighted in the 2000-2002 lines of the option plan and the LTPPs.
However, they were not required to table below.
relinquish rights under those plans that had already been granted prior The table also sets out information in compliance with new to April 2000 including performance units under the LTPPs that have legal requirements introduced under the Directors Remuneration yet to mature into share awards.
For the purpose of these regulations, The last of these LTPP rights under the 1999-2001 and 2000-2002 performance units are scheme interests.
plans matured or mature into share awards in February 2002 and 2003 respectively.
Thereafter they were granted under the EDIP as explained on pages 32-33.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents number of performance units, each having a maximum potential of two shares depending on performance.
c Represents awards of shares made or expected to be made at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
BPs performance is assessed in terms of a three-year SHRAM against the oil majors.
For 1998-2000 this included ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco: for 1999-2001 this included ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco: and for 2000-2002 this included ExxonMobil, Shell, TotalFinaElf, ChevronTexaco, ENI, Repsol-YPF.
For the two latter plans, performance was also assessed in terms of ROACE and EPS growth against the same oil majors.
d Dr Buchanan elected to defer to 2004 the determination of whether an award should be made for this period.
e On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 21 November 2002. f On leaving the board of BP p. l. c. on 31 March 2002.
BP 2002 Directors remuneration report 37 Compensation for past directors accordance with its terms.
The contract terms required payment to Mr Fords service agreement was with BP Corporation North America him by BPCNA of liquidated damages of $1,655,555, being equivalent Inc. BPCNA, dated 23 June 2000.
Mr Ford was seconded to BP to $1 million per annum pro rated for part years for each year p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated 23 June 2000.
On his between the date of severance and 21 January 2004.
BPCNA also resignation from the board of BP p. l. c. with effect from 31 March made payments totalling $129,691 to Mr Ford in June 2002 in 2002, his secondment to BP p. l. c. ended and he returned to the USA.
accordance with its standard benefits and repatriation programme.
His underlying US employment agreement with BPCNA had a twoMr Ford remains eligible for a pro rata award under the 2002 annual month notice period and was due to expire on 21 January 2004. bonus scheme and for awards under the long-term incentive schemes His contract was terminated early by BPCNA on 1 June 2002 in in accordance with the rules of those schemes.
Pensions Accrued Additional pension Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of A-B less Service at pension entitlement earned during the year accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by $ thousand 31 Dec 2002 at 31 Dec 2002 ended 31 Dec 2002 at 31 Dec 2002 A at 31 Dec 2001 B the director in 2002 The Lord Browne of Madingley UK 36 years 1,284 84 19,143 16,335 2,808 Dr J G S Buchanan UK 33 years 520 40 9,586 8,652 934 R F Chase UK 38 years 640 50 11,649 10,633 1,016 a W D Ford USA 31 years 644 140 8,324 5,988 2,336 Dr B E Grote USA 23 years 263 181 3,493 1,069 2,424 R L Olver UK 29 years 530 40 8,210 6,955 1,255 Conversion rates: 2002 at 1 $1.50: 2001 at 1 $1.44.
a 2002 figures for Mr Ford are stated as at 31 March 2002, the date he left the board of BP p. l. c. He retired in June 2002 and, in accordance with his entitlements under the normal rules of the grandfathered plan, he took a lump-sum distribution in August 2002 of his combined plan benefits totalling $8,485,733.
UK directors would be in addition to their pension entitlements referred to above.
UK directors are members of the BP Pension Scheme.
The scheme None of the other executive directors is eligible for consideration offers Inland Revenue-approved retirement benefits based on final for a superannuation payment on retirement, as the remuneration salary.
It is the principal section of the BP Pension Fund, the latter committee decided in 1996 that appointees to the board after being set up under trust deed.
Company contributions to the fund that time should cease to be eligible for consideration for such are made on the advice of the actuary appointed by the trustee.
No company contributions were made during 2002.
Scheme members core benefits are non-contributory.
They US directors include a pension accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year of US directors participate in the BP Retirement Accumulation Plan service, subject to a maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary: US plan, which features a cash balance formula.
The current design a lump-sum death-in-service benefit of 3 x salary: and a dependants of the US plan became effective on 1 July 2000.
However, certain benefit of two-thirds of the members pension.
The scheme pension former employees of Amoco and ARCO have been provided with is not integrated with state pension benefits.
a minimum or grandfathered benefit equal to the benefit that Normal retirement age is 60, but scheme members who have would have accrued under the respective predecessor pension plan.
30 or more years pensionable service at age 55 can elect to retire Mr Fords pension benefit was subject to this grandfathered early without an actuarial reduction being applied to their pension.
arrangement described above, reflecting his Amoco service and Pensions payable from the fund are guaranteed to be increased benefits.
annually in line with changes in the Retail Prices Index, up to a Consistent with US tax regulations, pension benefits are provided maximum of 5% a year.
through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit Directors appointed prior to 2003 accrue pension on a nonrestoration plans, as applicable.
contributory basis at the enhanced rate of 2 60ths of their final The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental salary for each year of service as executive directors up to the plan is a non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective same two-thirds limit.
None of the directors is affected by the on 1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which comprise In accordance with the companys long-standing practice for base salary and bonus in accordance with standard US practice as executive directors who retire from BP on or after age 55 having specified under the qualified arrangement multiplied by years of accrued at least 30 years service, Mr Chase will receive an ex-gratia service, with an offset for benefits payable under all other BP qualified lump-sum superannuation payment from the company equal to one and non-qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and years base salary following his retirement.
Lord Browne will remain therefore paid from corporate assets.
eligible for consideration for such a payment.
In the case of these Dr Grote is an eligible participant under the supplemental plan, individuals, all matters relating to such superannuation payments will and his pension accrual for 2002 includes the total amount that may be considered by the remuneration committee.
Any such payments become payable under all plans.
38 Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration Dear Shareholder It is important for BP to attract and retain non-executive talent from around the globe to ensure that our board is able to discharge its stewardship obligations to the highest possible standards, especially as the workload of non-executive directors continues to grow.
The recent Higgs Report recognizes that non-executive fees should reflect these greater expectations in the new boardroom environment, both at formal meetings of the board and in the work of its committees, as governance practices evolve.
All non-executive members of the BP board serve on at least one of its permanent committees, as described in the corporate governance section on page 28.
The remuneration of non-executive directors was last considered in 2000, with revised fee levels introduced on 1 January 2001.
During 2002, the board appointed a committee of independent non-executive directors under my chairmanship, consisting of Dr Julius and Mr Maljers, to review the remuneration of the non-executive directors and make recommendations for future structure and amount.
This ad hoc committee is distinct from the remuneration committee, which considers matters relating to the remuneration of the executive directors.
The ad hoc committee is not a standing committee of the board and, having undertaken the task assigned to it, it has been dissolved.
In the course of its work, the committee received advice and material assistance from Miss Hanratty company secretary and Mr Jeremy Booker vice president corporate governance, company secretarys office.
The ad hoc committee met on three occasions to consider in detail a range of options for the remuneration of non-executive directors, in the light of developing remuneration practice and the anticipated workload, tasks and liabilities of the non-executive directors.
Having considered comparative data and practice, including equivalent daily rates for non-executives in relevant jurisdictions, the committee made a number of recommendations to the board.
These recommendations were formally adopted by the board and took effect from 1 July 2002.
John H Bryan Chairman, Ad Hoc Committee on Non-Executive Remuneration 11 February 2003 Policy on non-executive directors remuneration Elements of remuneration In making recommendations for non-executive directors In contrast to the position of executive directors pay, in which an remuneration, the following policies were developed to guide increasing element is performance-related, non-executive directors the board in its current and future decision-making.
pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly, with increments for positions of additional responsibility, reflecting additional workload and Within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, consequent potential liability.
For all non-executive directors except remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain the chairman, a fixed allowance is paid for transatlantic travel world-class non-executive talent.
undertaken for the purpose of attending a board meeting.
In addition, Remuneration of non-executive directors should be proportional non-executive directors receive reimbursement of reasonable travel to their contribution towards the interests of the company.
No share or share option awards are Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized made to any non-executive director in respect of service on the board.
best-practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
Non-executive directors have letters of appointment that recognize Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the monthly.
They submit themselves for election Non-executive directors should not receive share options at the annual general meeting following their appointment and from the company.
subsequently at intervals of no more than three years.
Non-executive directors should be encouraged to establish a holding in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee, to be held directly or indirectly in a manner compatible with their personal investment activities and any applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
BP 2002 Directors remuneration report 39 Non-executive directors annual fee structure Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan The Articles provide that the remuneration paid to non-executive Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation were allocated directors is determined by the board within limits set by shareholders.
restricted stock in the Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Fees payable to non-executive directors were reviewed during 2002.
Stock Plan by way of remuneration for their service on the board New and increased fees based on a comparable structure were of Amoco Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, approved by the board as from 1 July 2002.
All fees are fixed and interests in Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests paid in pounds sterling.
For conformity these are also reported in in BP ADSs.
Under the terms of the plan, the restricted stock will vest US dollars.
upon the retirement of the non-executive director at age 70 or upon earlier retirement at the discretion of the board.
Since the merger, To 30 June 2002 From 1 July 2002 no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the plan.
a a thousand $ $ These residual interests require disclosure under the Directors b Chairman 420 280 585 390 Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 as interests in a long-term c Deputy chairman 128 85 128 85 incentive scheme: Board member 68 45 98 65 Committee chairmanship fee 8 5 23 15 Interest in BP ADSs 1 January 2002 and Date on which director d Transatlantic attendance allowance 53 85 a b 31 December 2002 reaches age 70 a Sterling payments converted at the average 2002 exchange rate of 1 $1.50.
J H Bryan 5,546 5 October 2006 b The chairman is ineligible for committee chairmanship fees and transatlantic E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 August 2014 attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office and a chauffeured F A Maljers 2,906 12 August 2003 car for company business.
c The deputy chairman receives a 20,000 increment on top of the standard board Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 April 2008 fee.
In addition, this is supplemented by committee chairmanship fees and M H Wilson 3,170 4 November 2007 transatlantic attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman of the Audit Committee.
Prior to 1 July 2002, the deputy chairman received an a No awards were granted or vested and no awards lapsed during the year.
all-inclusive fee of 85,000 and was ineligible for committee chairmanship fees b For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director reaches age 70 and transatlantic attendance allowance.
d is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director retires prior to this date, the board This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic travel may waive the restrictions.
for the purpose of attending a board meeting or board committee meeting.
Superannuation gratuities Long-term incentives residual In accordance with BPs long-standing practice, non-executive The table in the right-hand column sets out the residual entitlements directors who retire from the board after at least six years service of non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors are, at the time of their retirement, eligible for consideration for a of Amoco Corporation under the Amoco Non-Employee Directors superannuation gratuity.
The board is authorized to make such Restricted Stock Plan.
payments under the companys Articles.
The amount of the payment is determined at the boards discretion, having regard to the directors period of service as a director and other relevant factors.
The board did not make any payment to Sir Robert Wilson, the only non-executive director retiring in 2002, in view of his limited length of service.
On the recommendation of the ad hoc committee on Information subject to audit non-executive remuneration, during 2002 the board revised its policy with respect to such payments so that i non-executive Remuneration of non-executive directors directors appointed to the board after 1 July 2002 would not be 2002 2001 eligible for consideration for such a payment, and ii non-executive a b thousand $ $ directors in service at 1 July 2002 would remain eligible for Current directors consideration for a payment, but service after that date would not J H Bryan 120 80 82 57 be taken into account by the board in considering the amount of E B Davis, Jr 120 80 82 57 any payment.
Dr D S Julius 95 63 64 C F Knight 95 63 78 54 F A Maljers 95 63 78 54 This directors remuneration report was approved by the board Dr W E Massey 135 90 94 65 and signed on its behalf by Miss Hanratty, company secretary, c H M P Miles 95 63 78 54 on 11 February 2003. d Sir Robin Nicholson 110 73 83 57 Sir Ian Prosser 147 98 122 85 P D Sutherland 503 335 403 280 M H Wilson 116 77 86 60 Director leaving the board in 2002 Sir Robert Wilson 27 18 73 51 a Sterling payments converted at the average 2002 exchange rate of 1 $1.50.
b Sterling payments converted at the average 2001 exchange rate of 1 $1.44.
c Also received 300 in 2001 $432 at 2001 rate and 600 in 2002 $900 at 2002 rate for serving as a director of BP Pension Trustees Limited.
d Also received 20,000 each year $28,800 at 2001 rate and $30,000 at 2002 rate for serving as the boards representative on the Technology Advisory Council.
