Remuneration Report The Chairman and other Directors fees were last following Annual General Meeting when, under the increased at the Annual General Meeting held on 6th Companys Articles of Association, it is required that April 2000, when shareholders passed a resolution to they are elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a increase fees from 11,000 and 8,500 respectively.
Directors appointment will run for a three year term.
A Director may then be invited by the Board to serve for a further three years.
A Directors continuing Directors Remuneration 1 1 appointment is subject to re-election by shareholders 2002 2001 on retirement by rotation in accordance with the Directors Name Companys Articles of Association, which require that Robert Walther Chairman 15,000 15,000 one third of the Board must retire by rotation each Sir Michael Bunbury 11,000 11,000 year.
Professor Sandra Dawson 11,000 11,000 The Company does not operate any type of incentive Rt.
Peter Lilley MP 11,000 11,000 John Redwood 11,000 11,000 or pension scheme and therefore no Directors receive bonus payments or pension contributions from the 1 Auditable information Company or hold options to acquire shares in the Company.
Directors are not paid compensation for The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the loss of office.
No other payments are made to Remuneration Committee which reviews fees on a Directors, other than the reimbursement of regular basis.
Reviews are based on information reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in provided by the Manager, J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset connection with attending the Companys business.
Management UK Limited, on the level of fees paid to A graph showing the Companys net asset value total the directors of the Companys peers and within the return and share price total return compared with its investment trust industry generally.
The Directors benchmark index, The FTSE All-Share Index, over the fees are not performance-related.
Any increase in fees last ten years is shown on page 12. requires both Board and shareholder approval.
The Board does not believe that it is appropriate to By order of the Board recommend an increase in Directors fees at present.
JM Latter, for and on behalf of J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, The Directors do not have service contracts with the Secretary Company.
Directors are initially appointed until the 7th March 2003 Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounts for each financial year which give a true and accounting records are kept which disclose with fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position the end of the year and of the revenue for the year.
In of the Company and enable them to ensure that the preparing those accounts, the Directors are required accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They to: are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps select suitable accounting policies and then apply for the prevention and detection of fraud and other them consistently: irregularities.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
