Remuneration Report The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate The Directors do not have service contracts with the fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of Company.
Directors are initially appointed until the 100,000 per annum.
Subject to this overall limit, it is the following Annual General Meeting when, under the Companys policy to determine the level of the Directors Companys Articles of Association, it is required that they fees having regard to the level of fees payable to nonare elected by shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors executive directors in the industry generally, the role each appointment will run for a three-year term.
A Director may individual Director fulfils and the time committed to the then be invited by the Board to serve for a further three Companys affairs.
A Directors continuing appointment is subject to reelection by shareholders on retirement by rotation in Directors Remuneration accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
At 1 1 2002 2001 every Annual General Meeting at least one-third of the Directors Name Directors shall retire from office.
The Company does not operate any type of incentive or NJ Cosh Chairman 20,000 20,000 pension scheme and therefore no Directors receive bonus HN Buchan payments or pension contributions from the Company or Audit Committee Chairman 15,206 13,500 hold options to acquire shares in the Company.
Directors GP Greener 13,500 13,500 are not paid compensation for loss of office.
No other 2 2 RJHD Palmer payments are made to Directors, other than the IOS Saunders 13,500 13,500 reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses 1 incurred in connection with attending the Companys Auditable information.
Mr RJHD Palmer waived his Directors fees for the years ending 2001 and 2002.
The Companys Articles of Association have a qualification that each Director shall have a personal holding of at least As the Board of Directors is comprised solely of non- 500 Ordinary Shares of 25p.
The Board also has a policy executive directors, it is exempt under the Listing Rules whereby a proportion of any remuneration paid to from appointing a Remuneration Committee.
Therefore, Directors must be used to purchase shares in the Company the Board as a whole fulfils the function of the following the announcement of the annual results.
Remuneration Committee which reviews fees.
Reviews A graph showing the Companys net asset value total return are based on information provided by the Manager, and and share price total return compared with its benchmark relevant third parties, on the level of fees paid to the index, the S&P500 Composite Index expressed in sterling directors of the Companys peers and within the terms, over the last ten years is shown on page 15. investment trust industry generally.
In view of the additional amount of time the Directors are focusing on By order of the Board regulatory and corporate governance issues as well as F W Easton, for and on behalf of the fact that the level of Directors fees have remained J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management UK Limited, unchanged since 1999.
It is likely that the review which is Secretary to take place during 2003 will result in an increase in the 10th March 2003 rate of Directors remuneration.
The Directors fees are not performance-related.
Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts The Directors confirm that the accounts comply with the for each financial year which give a true and fair view of above requirements.
the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper year and of the revenue for the year.
In preparing those accounting records are kept which disclose with accounts, the Directors are required to: reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Company and enable them to ensure that the them consistently: accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and prudent: and prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
