DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2002 Terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee In assessing the balance of performance Consultants provide specific recommendations to The terms of reference of the Remuneration related and non-performance related elements the Committee on remuneration or benefit levels Committee the Committee, as approved of remuneration, base pay and benefits are for the executive directors.
The Committee does, by the Board, embody the purpose of the treated as non-performance related, whereas however, review survey information provided by Committee as ensuring that the Companys annual bonus including awards under the them in the light of its established remuneration executive directors and senior executives are Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme and policy before making its decisions.
All decisions fairly rewarded for their individual contributions long term incentives are treated as performance of the Committee were implemented in full.
to the Groups overall performance having due related.
For this purpose, share options are valued regard to the interests of the shareholders and at one third of their face value on grant.
On this Base pay to the financial and commercial health of basis, the Committee sets the remuneration The base pay of each executive director is set the Group.
package such that at least half the total target to reflect the size and scope of that directors remuneration package is derived from the responsibilities undertaken on behalf of the Membership performance related elements.
Board, the level of overall performance achieved All members of the Committee, who are and experience in the post.
As stated above, it identified on page 19 of the Annual Review and Both the overall competitiveness of the is benchmarked against comparator companies Summary Financial Statement, are independent remuneration package and the balance between and the actual pay level is set after taking non-executive directors.
The Committee performance and non-performance related account of performance, relevant external is chaired by Mr C A Banks who succeeded elements are kept under regular review in the survey data and the general movement of base Mr A P Dyer in February 2003.
Members of the light of market practice and the needs of the pay within the Group.
Committee do not have any personal financial Company.
The Committee commissions reports interest other than as shareholders in matters and receives advice on directors remuneration Annual bonus plan decided by the Committee, nor do they have from independent remuneration and benefits The executive directors participate in an annual any potential conflict of interest arising from consultants, namely Monks Partnership and bonus plan intended to support the Companys cross-directorships or day to day involvement New Bridge Street Consultants, who may from overall remuneration policy.
The bonus plan in running the Groups business.
time to time provide other services to the for each executive director contains meaningful Company on remuneration and benefit matters targets that seek to focus attention on one The Committee meets at least three times that are not the subject of review by the or two key measures of short to medium term during the year and at other times as may be Committee.
The Committee has asked for two achievement.
In 2002, the target for the annual required.
While the Chairman of the Company, specific surveys to be carried out on its behalf bonus for the UK executive directors was linked Mr A J Habgood, is not a member of the by Monks Partnership in 2003.
One addresses to the Groups achievement of earnings per share Committee, he normally attends meetings annual bonus plans and the other deals with after certain specified adjustments eps.
except when the Committee is considering long term incentives.
Further details of the Detailed terms of the plan were determined matters concerning himself.
remuneration policy and how it is currently by the Committee and provided for a bonus to applied to the various aspects of remuneration be awarded if the Group achieved, in 2002, a Audit is provided in the relevant sections below.
No bonus was to be awarded The directors remuneration in 2002 and for eps achievement below the threshold level.
the details of the directors interests in the With regard to external pay survey data, the The bonus plan provided for an increase in Companys ordinary shares disclosed on Committee reviews each year, prior to the annual the bonus award pro rata for eps achievement pages 30 to 33 have been audited by the review of base pay in January, information on above the threshold up to a target level of eps Companys independent external auditor.
remuneration and benefit levels based on an and for above target achievement.
Half of this external survey conducted on its behalf by Monks annual bonus is normally paid in cash and half Remuneration policy Partnership.
The Committee seeks to maintain, is deferred under the rules of the Deferred The Companys current remuneration policy wherever possible, a consistent and appropriate Annual Share Bonus Scheme DASBS, details for 2003 and beyond is designed to help ensure basis for comparison year on year in terms of the of which are set out below.
For Mr P G Lorenzini, the recruitment, retention and motivation of survey methodology and, in particular, the use the bonus plan was based on the profit and return the executive directors by providing fair reward of comparator groups on which the survey is on average capital employed achieved in the for the responsibilities they undertake and based.
There are three comparator groups that business for which he is directly responsible.
the performance they achieve on behalf of the Committee uses.
These are related to sales, A maximum bonus award was specified in each shareholders.
In this context, the Committees profit before tax and market capitalisation.
Bonus awards are not pensionable.
policy is to set the overall remuneration package each case the comparator group consists of at a competitive level and in a form that permits 20 non-financial UK based companies that Under the DASBS, eligible executives, including significant additional remuneration to be have substantial operations overseas.
10 of the the UK executive directors, receive the deferred earned for high performance over a sustained companies in each comparator group are the next element of their annual bonus as an award of period.
This is normally to be achieved by highest and 10 are the next lowest compared to ordinary shares.
The ordinary shares are purchased benchmarking base pay against comparator Bunzl.
The results from each of the comparator in the market and deposited with the Bunzl companies and a range of factors, including groups are blended by Monks Partnership to Group General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust performance see below, and by providing, in provide an overall assessed market position as until 1 March in the third year after the year addition, short term and long term incentives at 1 January of the year of the review.
Neither in which the award is made, following which geared to performance.
Monks Partnership nor New Bridge Street they are transferred to the executive provided Bunzl plc 29 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED normally that the executive has remained in the which expired in 1994, and was approved executive directors, who have completed at employment of the Group throughout that period.
by shareholders at the 1994 Annual General least one year of continuous service.
They are The DASBS forms a part of the annual bonus Meeting.
The 1994 Scheme is consistent with linked to a contract for monthly savings of up plan so as to provide, in total, an annual bonus principles expressed in guidelines issued, at to 250 per month over a period of either three opportunity linked to the overall performance the time of its approval, by bodies representing or five years.
Under the Sharesave Schemes of the Group, with a significant portion of any institutional investors.
In particular a Company options are granted to participating employees bonus award held in shares for a three year performance condition, determined by the at a discount of up to 20% to the market price period.
The Committee believes this supports the Committee, has to be satisfied before options prevailing on the day immediately preceding overall remuneration policy and contributes to may normally be exercised.
Options granted to the date of invitation to apply for the option.
the alignment of executives and shareholders date under the 1994 Scheme may normally Options are normally exercisable either three interests.
In 2002, an award of 45,061 shares only be exercised if, during any three consecutive or five years after they have been granted.
was made in respect of Mr A J Habgood and an financial years since the option was granted, The Group introduced, with effect from award of 24,578 shares was made in respect of the increase in the adjusted earnings per share 1 January 2000, the Bunzl Employee Stock Mr D M Williams.
In both cases the shares would of the Group is equal to or greater than the Purchase Plan US following approval given at transfer to Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams increase in the Retail Prices Index over that an Extraordinary General Meeting of shareholders respectively on 1 March 2005, subject to the period, plus 6%.
This condition, which was held on 5 October 1999.
This Plan provides an rules of the DASBS.
approved by shareholders at the time the 1994 opportunity for Bunzl Group employees in the Scheme was adopted, has been satisfied in US, including Mr P G Lorenzini, to purchase The Committee also reviews and authorises the respect of options granted prior to 2001 under Bunzl shares in the form of American Depositary outline structure of annual bonus plans for other the 1994 Scheme.
The grant of executive share Receipts ADRs at a 15% discount to the senior executives within the Group.
These plans options is made on a discretionary basis, taking market price, up to an annual maximum of are based on performance targets relevant to account of each executives performance and 10% of remuneration or $25,000 worth of individual businesses or areas of responsibility job responsibilities.
In normal circumstances ADRs, whichever is lower.
The purchase of the and are compatible with the principles of the options granted are exercisable, subject ADRs is funded by after-tax payroll deductions bonus plans approved for the executive directors.
to satisfaction of the relevant performance from the employee with the employing company condition as referred to above, not earlier than contributing the 15% discount.
Share based incentives three years and not later than 10 years after The Committee believes that the long term the date of grant.
Options were granted to the Based on the authority obtained at the performance of the Group is an important UK executive directors in February and August 2001 Annual General Meeting, the Company consideration for shareholders and that share 2002 in respect of market purchased shares introduced the International Sharesave Plan based incentives are an important part of that are held through the Trust.
As the 1994 during 2002 in Holland and Germany.
This helping to align the interests of shareholders Scheme is due to expire next year, it is the operates on a similar basis to the Sharesave and those employed by the Group.
The Committees current intention to adopt a new Scheme 2001 except that monthly savings are Committee welcomes the fact that each Executive Share Option Scheme.
Shareholders limited to 400 per month and options are of the executive directors currently has a will be asked to approve this new Scheme at normally exercisable three years after they have meaningful holding of Bunzl shares.
None of the executive directors are eligible to participate in this Plan.
The Group operates an Executive Share Option The Sharesave Scheme 2001 replaced the Scheme under which the executive directors Sharesave Scheme 1991, which expired The table below shows the number of options and other senior executives in the Group may in 2001, together the Sharesave Schemes held by the directors at 31 December 2002 and be granted options over Bunzl shares.
The and was approved by shareholders at the options granted to and exercised by the directors 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme the 2001 Annual General Meeting.
The Sharesave during 2002 under the No.
2 Scheme, the 1994 1994 Scheme replaced the Executive Share Schemes are approved by the Inland Revenue Scheme and the Sharesave Schemes, all of which Option Scheme No.
2 Scheme, and are open to all UK employees, including have been approved by shareholders.
Granted Exercised Market Date during during Exercise price at from which Expiry 1.1.
02 year year 31.12.02 price p exercise p exercisable date A J Habgood No.
12 30 Bunzl plc Granted Exercised Market Date during during Exercise price at from which Expiry 1.1.
02 year year 31.12.02 price p exercise p exercisable date D M Williams No.
12 Mr P G Lorenzini currently has no options any awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan The Companys total shareholder return over under the terms of any Company share option LTIP to the directors in 1999.
This decision the last five years compared to that of the FTSE scheme.
The exercise price of executive options has also applied in 2000, 2001 and 2002.
Support Services Sector is shown in the graph under the No.
2 Scheme is the mid-market price The status of the outstanding LTIP awards, as on page 24 of the Annual Review and Summary of an ordinary share on the date of grant of the they affect the executive directors, other than Financial Statement although the Company option.
The exercise price of executive options Mr P G Lorenzini who does not participate in has only been a constituent of this Sector under the 1994 Scheme is the market price the LTIP, is as follows.
since December 1998. prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of grant of the option or, if higher in The 1996 awards of 71,875 ordinary shares Retirement benefits the case of options granted prior to 2001, the to Mr D M Williams vested at the end of 1999 As stated in the Accounting Policies section price on the date of grant.
For savings-related and became exercisable from 1 January 2001. of the financial statements and elaborated upon options under the Sharesave Scheme the exercise He exercised this award on 28 October 2002 in the relevant Note thereto, the Group utilises price is the mid-market price of an ordinary share giving a total market value on exercise of both defined benefit and defined contribution on the day immediately preceding the date of 324,695.
The awards granted in 1997 to pension schemes throughout the world.
In the invitation to apply for the option, less 20%.
Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams of 139,887 UK the Group has historically operated as its and 89,326 ordinary shares respectively also main contributory scheme for senior executives The options granted under the No.
2 Scheme vested at the end of 1999 and these shares the Bunzl Senior Pension Scheme BSPS.
and 1994 Scheme are normally capable of became exercisable on 1 January 2000 and BSPS provides for members contributions being exercised on or after the third anniversary will expire on 31 December 2003.
The 1998 currently at the rate of 5% of pensionable of the date of grant of the relevant option.
As awards of 141,000 and 89,000 ordinary shares salary which is basic salary, rising to 9% permitted by the amendments to the rules of to Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams with effect from 1 April 2003, with the Group the No.
2 Scheme, approved by shareholders respectively vested at the end of 2000.
They being responsible for the balance of the cost at the 1992 Annual General Meeting, some of became exercisable on 1 January 2001 and of providing the benefit as determined from the options are also capable of being exercised will expire on 31 December 2004.
No awards time to time by the consulting actuaries to at a price of 85% of the full exercise price, on were exercised by Mr A J Habgood in 2002 BSPS.
Subject to Inland Revenue limits, BSPS or after the fifth anniversary of the date of grant and the market value of awards exercised by members are eligible for a pension which for the relevant option, provided that, during him in 2001 was 628,704.
No awards were accrues at a maximum rate of 3% per annum any five consecutive financial years since exercised by Mr D M Williams in 2001. up to two thirds of pensionable salary, with a the option was granted, the increase in the normal retirement age of 60 years.
BSPS also adjusted earnings per share of the Group is Any shares required to fulfil entitlements provides for payment of certain benefits in the equal to, or greater than, the increase in the under the LTIP, DASBS and the 1994 event of death or disability.
The current UK Retail Prices Index over that period, plus 10%.
Scheme in respect of options over market executive directors may choose to be members This condition has been satisfied in respect of purchased shares will be provided by the of BSPS or to opt for a private pension scheme.
certain options granted in 1994, the only year Trust.
Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams In the event that a director opts for a private for which it is still relevant.
These options may are deemed by virtue of the Companies Act 1985 pension scheme the Company also contributes now be exercised at a price of 129p.
to be interested in all the shares held by the to lump sum life assurance cover equivalent to Trust, which at 31 December 2002 amounted that provided under BSPS.
Because of the cap The mid-market price of an ordinary share on to 5,454,213 ordinary shares, because they are on pensionable salary introduced in the Finance 31 December 2002 was 380p and the range potential beneficiaries under the Trust together Act 1989, the amount of direct contribution during 2002 was 368p to 547p.
with all other directors and employees of the by the Company to pension schemes for the UK Group.
These interests do not reflect the awards executive directors is limited and arrangements The 1999 Directors Remuneration Report actually made to them individually through the have therefore been made to provide the recorded the Committees decision not to grant Trust that are summarised above.
executive directors with an allowance which Bunzl plc 31 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED permits them to make provision, of their choice, that provide for 12 months notice from participates in welfare benefit plans made in respect of that part of their salary which the Company and six months notice available to all US employees of the Group exceeds the cap.
In the US the main scheme from the executive.
Mr A J Habgood and covering life insurance, medical, dental and for employees is the non-contributory Bunzl Mr D M Williams each have service contracts disability cover.
USA, Inc Retirement Plan US Plan.
Subject dated 16 January 1996 that provide for these to IRS limits, members of the US Plan earn notice periods.
The only circumstances in which Non-executive directors a lifetime pension which accrues at the rate there is predetermined compensation for The non-executive directors are paid an of 1.67% per annum, up to 50% of the five termination of these contracts are where there annual fee for their services plus a daily fee year average pensionable salary less the is a change of control of the Company.
There are for attending meetings of the Board and Board primary Social Security benefit, with a normal no provisions for predetermined compensation Committees.
In addition, where relevant, they retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in excess of one years remuneration and benefits are paid a fee for chairing a Board Committee.
in the US Plan is capped at $140,000.
Mr P G Lorenzini has a fixed term The non-executive directors do not have service US Plan also provides for certain benefits in service contract dated 25 February 2002 which contracts, are not eligible for pension scheme the event of death or disability.
These plans are runs to 31 December 2003.
Early termination of membership or other employee benefits and now closed to new entrants who will be offered this contract for reasons other than cause would do not participate in any of the Groups bonus, a defined contribution arrangement.
Because require payment by the Company of the balance share option or long term incentive plans.
of the cap on pensionable salary under the US of Mr Lorenzinis entitlement under the contract.
The non-executive directors pay is reviewed Plan, the pensions of senior US executives are annually, based on external market survey data, limited and arrangements have been made to Other principal benefits for executive directors and is determined by the Board.
provide certain executives with supplementary In common with many senior executives pensions through a Senior Executive Retirement in the Group, the executive directors are Directors remuneration Agreement SERA.
Mr P G Lorenzinis SERA eligible for certain benefits which include the The following table gives details of each provides for a lifetime pension of $370,000 provision of a company car and payment of its directors remuneration for the year.
per annum, payable upon retirement.
operating expenses including fuel, in line with prevailing Group policies, and, in the case of Executive directors service contracts Mr A J Habgood and Mr D M Williams, private It is the Companys policy that executive medical plan coverage under the Companys directors are normally employed on contracts prevailing UK healthcare plan.
2 The remuneration for Mr C A Banks relates to the period from 1 June 2002 the date of his appointment to the Board to 31 December 2002.
3 Benefits incorporate all taxable benefits arising from employment by the Company that principally relate to the provision of a company car.
4 The figures above represent remuneration earned as directors during the relevant financial year including, in the cases of Mr A J Habgood, Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini, performance related elements which are paid in cash in the year following that in which they are earned.
5 The fees paid in respect of Mr S G Williams services are paid to his employer, Unilever PLC, and not to Mr S G Williams personally.
6 As Mr A J Habgood is not a member of the Company pension scheme, the Company normally makes a direct pension contribution, at Mr A J Habgoods direction, to a personal pension scheme in his name.
In accordance with Mr A J Habgoods contract of employment the relevant amount paid as a direct pension contribution has been deducted from the total pension allowance in 2002.
The balance is shown in the table above as the pension allowance.
The values of the pension benefits in the cases of Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini are shown in the table below and are not included in the directors remuneration table on the previous page.
In addition the Company pays all necessary contributions, on actuarial advice, to a Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA for Mr P G Lorenzini.
Change in transfer value of accrued benefits during the year, after deducting Transfer value of contributions made Transfer value of Accrued benefits Accrued benefits accrued benefits by the director accrued benefits at 31.12.01 at 31.12.02 at 31.12.01 during the year 31.12.02 D M Williams 29,336 32,653 453,909 115,918 574,665 P G Lorenzini 23,102 25,154 169,648 39,304 208,952 Excluding SERA entitlements Notes 1 The increase in accrued benefits during the year excludes the effect of inflation on the accrued pension as at the start of the year.
2 Accrued benefits are the annual amount that would be paid on retirement at the normal retirement age based on service to 31 December 2002.
3 The above figures do not take account of any Additional Voluntary Contributions that all members of BSPS have the option to make.
4 The transfer values of accrued benefits for Mr D M Williams and Mr P G Lorenzini have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with any relevant actuarial legislation and, in the case of Mr D M Williams, is net of his contributions.
5 In addition Mr P G Lorenzini participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2002 such contributions amounted to 5,066 2001: 5,313.
