LTF FLOWS UK LONG TERM FUND LTF Simplied representation of the ows within the NON-PROFIT BUSINESS UK Long Term Fund.
PROFIT AND RELEASED PROVISIONS NEW BUSINESS AND INCREASED PROVISIONS WITH-PROFITS SRC AND INVESTMENT RETURN FUND SUB-FUND UP TO 10% OF TARGET BASED DISTRIBUTED ON EMBEDDED SURPLUS VALUE TRANSFER OUT OF LTF Retained Capital SRC, the retention of element of the Rights Issue 3.46p before 16 Finance Directors Review which within the LTF provides the financial the adjustment and it is recommended that strength to support existing business and this be increased by 2.5% to 3.25p for 2002. fund new business.
The SRC, together with The interim dividend for 2002 was 1.67p a sub-fund, which is available to support the 1.53p after adjustment for the Rights Issue.
with-profits business, comprises accumulated The rate of growth in the final dividend has profits retained in the LTF from past been determined by the Board having regard to non-profit business.
the prospective LTF transfers and other income At the end of 2002, the assets supporting streams as well as to the continued weakness with-profits business amounted to 23.0bn.
Dividend growth The SRC amounted to 2.3bn and the recommendations in future periods will sub-fund 0.2bn.
similarly be made in the light of prospective income ows and of equity market conditions The changes to the operation of the LTF at the time.
The 2002 dividend cover, based implemented in 1996 enabled transfers from on operating profit after tax, is 1.2 times on the LTF to increase progressively to a target the MSS basis.
level which would deliver an appropriate return on the shareholders interests in the LTF.
Management of Risk This level is the aggregate of the shareholders A significant part of the Groups business share of the with-profits surplus and a smoothed is the acceptance of risk in a controlled and investment return on the SRC and the value considered manner.
The essence of insurance of the non-profit business.
The 2002 transfer is the transfer of financial risk from policyholder from the LTF has reached the target level.
to insurer and, therefore, there is the potential Future investment appreciation or depreciation of financial loss for insurers.
The nature of the and the effect of operational performance will risks accepted by insurers means that costly not immediately be reected in the LTF events, which are unanticipated as regards transfer.
Instead they will be smoothed over size and timing, do occur.
Most of the Groups UK activities are subject Group Dividend to regulation by the Financial Services Authority, Dividends from the Groups operational which requires authorised companies to take subsidiaries, together with the LTF transfer, reasonable care to organise and control their provide a sound base for our dividend to affairs responsibly, effectively and with shareholders.
The final dividend per share for adequate risk management systems.
The 2001 was 3.17p after adjusting for the bonus Group Risk Committee, which comprises FIG 15.
CATEGORIES OF RISK senior managers drawn from across the Group, CREDIT RISK The risk of loss if another party fails to perform its financial obligations to the Group monitors the identication of critical risks and their management.
Risks are managed within MARKET RISK The risk arising from uctuations in interest and exchange rates and market valuations which may affect assets, liabilities and the mismatch between the two the categories described in Figure 15.
LIQUIDITY RISK The risk of not being able to realise assets to meet cash outows when due Credit Risk OPERATIONAL RISK The risk arising from developments in the external marketplace, crime, disasters, information Counterparty credit limits for the Group and technology, legal action and inadequate legal documentation, non-compliance with regulation, individual subsidiaries are approved and negative publicity and the losses from the failure or inadequacy of systems and controls reviewed regularly by senior management.
INSURANCE RISK The risk arising from the acceptance of insurance policies including underwriting, claims Compliance with these limits for investment management and claims provisioning and treasury transactions is monitored daily.
LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW FIG 16.
ANALYSIS OF DEBT BY TYPE FIG 17.
CONTRIBUTION OF NEW BUSINESS TO ACHIEVED OPERATING PROFIT Convertible 2006 516m UK Life and Pensions 211m Short Dated MTNs 369m International Life and Pensions 38m Long Dated MTNs 597m UK Managed Pension Funds 32m Commercial Paper 89m Bank Loans 18m Market Risk which set out the risks which may be Medium Term Note programme and lent 17 An Asset Liability Committee of senior accepted.
Pricing is based on assumptions, on a subordinated basis to the LTF to managers, establishes investment policies such as mortality and persistency, which have support business growth.
Other shareholder for shareholders and policyholders funds regard to past experience and trends.
debt amounted to 960m 2001: 575m and included the 516m, 2.75% 2006 on the basis of sound asset liability Insurance exposures are further limited convertible debt.
Reinsurance may be The investment policies for long term and used to reduce the potential loss to the The Group complies with all of its borrowing other business have due regard to the nature Group from individual large risks and covenants, none of which represents a of the liabilities and the guarantees and other restriction on funding or investment policy.
It may also be used The Groups current debt ratings from embedded options given to policyholders.
to manage capital or to provide access to Standard & Poors and Moodys for long The interest rate risk of such liabilities is specialist underwriting expertise.
Reinsurance term debt are AA and A1, respectively: and normally managed by investing in assets of is predominantly ceded by treaties which for short term debt A1 and P1 respectively.
It is further automatically cover a proportion of all risks The outlook for ratings from Standard & managed by maintaining capital sufficient to meeting prescribed criteria.
Poors is negative and from Moodys is stable.
cover the consequence of a mismatch under The principal General insurance reinsurances a number of adverse scenarios and by the The weighted average cost of the Groups total are excess of loss catastrophe treaties, under use of derivatives.
which the excess of an accumulation of claims Balance sheet foreign currency translation from an event, above an agreed retention level, Tax exposure in respect of the Groups is recovered from reinsurers.
The effective The reported rate of tax credit on the AP international subsidiaries is actively managed retention for 2003 is 25m 2002: 18m basis was 6% 2001: 158% rate of charge.
in accordance with a policy, agreed by the and this represents the maximum net The principal reason for this low rate was that Board, which allows between 25% and 75% probable loss from any one event within only a limited tax credit was available for the of net foreign currency assets to be hedged.
substantial unrealised depreciation of the value of our equity holdings.
Liquidity Risk Treasury Operations Liquidity requirements vary according to the The Group has a central treasury function Financial Reporting Standard 19, Deferred type of business.
Relevant monthly cash ow which is responsible for the Groups external tax, has been adopted and the 2001 projections are maintained to indicate likely nancing and related interest rate exposure.
Short term cash It manages foreign currency exposure, liquidity, of the restatement on the loss after tax and requirements can be met by the sale of short term investments and counterparty risks.
the shareholders funds in the AP results liquid investments or the use of short term The authorities of the central treasury function was not significant.
On the MSS basis, it is borrowings either directly from the capital are approved by the boards of the companies estimated that profits after tax for 2002 markets through the Groups Commercial for which transactions are undertaken and reduced by 13m 2001: increased by 47m Paper facility or from a number of highly are reviewed by the Audit Committee of the and at 31 December 2002 shareholders funds rated banks under committed or uncommitted Group Board.
increased by 102m 2001: 115m and debt facilities.
the fund for future appropriations reduced Debt by 76m 2001: 405m.
Operational Risk Total debt at the end of 2002 amounted to Operational management has responsibility 1,589m 2001: 1,642m.
The debt is for managing these risks, subject to review by analysed by type in Figure 16.
1,113m of the Group Risk Committee and in accordance the debt carried a rate of interest effectively with established policies and procedures.
Insurance Risk Debt attributed to the SRC amounted to 602m The Group controls its insurance exposures 2001: 502m.
This largely represented long Andrew Palmer through underwriting and pricing authorities dated senior debt raised under the Groups Group Director Finance Building Legal & General is committed to building part of its Partnership at Work programme.
18 Corporate Social Responsibility a strong, successful business which acts fairly The funding is being used to reinforce the and responsibly towards its stakeholders.
Partnership Agreement between We are keen to expand the ways in which Legal & General and Amicus, and develop we report our business performance to reect it at a strategic level in both organisations.
Accordingly, we have In November 2002, Legal & General recently produced for the first time an online celebrated Partnership Day, to promote Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report.
As a result, The report details activities in areas such as a further 117 employees joined Amicus, supporting communities, building strong bringing to 673 the total of new members employee relations and protecting the recruited in the year.
The CSR and Annual Reports pay their union membership through payroll together provide a comprehensive review of and many more pay their membership directly.
our financial, social and environmental Training and Development performance.
A summary of the CSR Report, We are keen to promote continuous which can be found in full on our website at development among our employees.
as providing technical training, we seek to Our Employees encourage personal development through Legal & General aims to promote a working a range of initiatives including a Learning atmosphere in which all our employees can Information Centre based at our Cardiff thrive.
We seek to ensure that the workplace ofce, Learning at Work Days and a training is a safe and healthy environment in which site on our intranet.
to conduct business, that all employees are Equality and Diversity treated equally and that they are able Legal & General is an equal opportunities to achieve an appropriate work life balance.
We seek to ensure that all our We also seek to ensure that our employees employees are treated fairly and without are well-trained for the positions they hold discrimination.
During 2002, we conducted and receive adequate training to progress a further Equal Pay Assessment in the UK, in their careers and to develop personally.
building on the 2001 Equal Pay audit.
We We seek to conform with both the 1948 also began a project in Cardiff seeking to Universal Declaration of Human Rights and make the workplace more accessible to the 1953 European Convention of Human deaf and hearing impaired people.
Our policies and practices have been Work Life Balance reviewed to ensure conformity with the UK We recognise the need for our employees Human Rights Act 2000. to balance their work and personal Employee Relations commitments.
We operate a number of WE BELIEVE THAT We have enjoyed a positive relationship schemes to enable them to do this including BEHAVING RESPONSIBLY with Amicus over a number of years and exible working and the option of part-time this relationship has been strengthened working arranged on a case by case basis.
AS A COMPANY IS GOOD further in 2002.
FOR OUR BUSINESS, Health and Safety At the end of 2001, Legal & General and The Health and Safety of our employees is OUR SOCIETY AND OUR Amicus were successful in receiving funding a high priority for Legal & General.
from the Department of Trade and Industry as as providing a company-wide training LEGAL & GENERAL ANNUAL REPORT 2002 a culture which aims then delivers more CREATING COMPANY-WIDE COMMITMENT Change is the agent of progress and, I believe, the change culture we have at Legal & General is a major asset of the Group.
ROB STRANGE, DIRECTOR, CHANGE AND STRATEGIC PROGRAMMES Can-Do Culture AYear of Awards Things never stand still at Legal & General once again won Legal & General.
Whether we are a wide range of awards in 2002. integrating new partners, launching As well as being named Life Insurer new products, adapting to new of the Year in the British Insurance regulations, streamlining our administration Awards and the UKs Most Admired processes, or providing leading-edge Insurance Company by Management solutions to our customers needs, Today, Legal & General won Best Use Legal & General is a company engaged of E-Business in the Health Insurance in continuous change.
But process Awards: Most Innovative Business to change alone cannot deliver our Business Initiative in the Financial business goals.
Also essential is that Innovations Awards and Best Indexour people accept and adapt to the Tracking Fund Manager in the Pensions changes around them.
Though winning need to change to keep up with the awards and accolades is pleasing, market.
Legal & General has sought the goal we strive for is to win the to do just that and to embrace the confidence and support of our increasing can-do culture of success.
John Press Programme Director Banks and Lender Partners high, Rob Strange Director, Change and Strategic Programmes For The Future When there appears to be so much uncertainty surrounding some companies, I felt with Legal & General I was dealing with a company I could trust, both now and for the future.
SARA EDISON, AN ISA CUSTOMER, WITH TEDDY AND LOUIE, TEDDINGTON
