34 Directors report and accounts Remuneration report In a competitive and consolidating marketplace Scope of report the Company must attract and retain a talented The Remuneration report sets out the Companys remuneration policy and, particularly, its approach top team to ensure it is positioned to deliver its business plans and maximise returns for for directors.
It also explains how the Company applies the principles of good corporate shareholders.
governance in relation to directors remuneration The Company is committed to paying for as defined in the Combined Code, and explains performance.
A significant proportion of executive any areas of non-compliance.
remuneration is variable and dependent on the achievement of challenging performance targets Details of directors remuneration and benefits are set out in note 7 pages 46 to 49 to the which align with shareholders interests.
In 2001 02 over two-thirds of executives pay financial statements.
Shareholders will be provided with an opportunity The Remuneration Committee continually reviews to vote on the remuneration policy as set out in executive remuneration practices and levels in this Annual Report at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Further details will be contained relation to market practice as defined by a group of peer companies.
This peer group is comprised in the notice of AGM.
of specialist financial services and information Remuneration Committee technology companies, and is kept under review The Remuneration Committee comprises four to reflect corporate events and ongoing suitability.
non-executive directors who are appointed by the Specifically, total remuneration is benchmarked at Board.
The Committee meets as required and at market median or slightly above this peer group.
least twice a year to determine on behalf of the The principle components of executive directors Board the framework of executive remuneration, remuneration are as follows: and the specific remuneration of the executive directors including the award of entitlements Fixed components under the performance related incentive schemes.
base salary and benefits, set by reference The members of the Committee are: to the peer group.
Nigel Stapleton Chairman Performance related components Janet Cohen annual bonus, through a cash and in certain Peter Meinertzhagen circumstances deferred award of shares Robert Webb QC for the achievement of corporate and Prior to the Companys listing in July 2001 the individual objectives composition of the Remuneration Committee share option grants to reward the creation was reviewed to increase the number of of long-term shareholder value.
independent non-executive directors, while at the same time providing the necessary These components of executive directors remuneration are set out in more detail below.
For the purposes of the Combined Code, Peter Meinertzhagen, Base salary a member of the former Senior Appointments Salaries are reviewed annually with effect from and Remuneration Committee, is the sole 1 April.
Adjustments may be made to reflect member not regarded as being independent.
changes in responsibilities and to ensure salary The members of this Committee do not have levels remain competitive against the peer group any personal financial interests nor any conflicts of companies.
from cross-directorships that relate to the business of the Committee.
The members Annual Bonus Plan do not have any day-to-day involvement in Executive directors are eligible to participate in the the running of the Company.
Under this plan bonuses are determined by two factors: The Committee obtains advice from the remuneration consultants, Mercer Human the performance of the Company against Resource Consulting Ltd.
The results of annual financial targets which include operating market surveys and other analysis from profit, earnings per share and cashflows external sources are also made available individual performance against personal to the Committee.
Committee also invites the views of the Chief Bonus levels for executives for achievement of Executive, Chairman and Director of Finance.
stretching performance targets and objectives The Committees terms of reference are reviewed are typically 100 per cent of base salary, with the regularly and approved by the Board.
potential for higher awards to incentivise and reward outstanding performance.
Similarly, executive Remuneration policy directors will not be eligible for a bonus if the Since last years listing, the Remuneration Company fails to meet its annual financial targets.
Committee has embarked upon a full review of remuneration for senior executives.
The objective Awards over 100 per cent of salary are in part deferred as share awards, which are delivered in has been to establish a transparent framework covering all elements of remuneration that retains, two tranches after 12 and 24 months of award motivates and incentivises senior executives.
date, subject to continued service.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2002 35 Long-term incentive schemes All employee SAYE Share Option Scheme In March 2000, shareholders approved the Initial All UK permanent employees, including executive and Annual Plans under which all previous share directors, are eligible to participate in the Inland scheme awards have been made.
These Plans Revenue approved SAYE Share Option Scheme.
were introduced to develop quickly a stronger Under the scheme rules, participants can save commercial culture following the Companys up to 250 each month for a period of five years demutualisation and to align senior managements and savings plus interest may be used to acquire interests and actions with the interests of shares by exercising the related option.
The options may be granted at an exercise Following listing in July 2001, the Board price which represents a 20 per cent discount considered it appropriate to replace the Annual to market value.
and Initial Plans with a new equity based incentive Pensions plan that is tied to corporate financial performance Martin Wheatley, who was appointed prior to and incorporates best practice and guidance 1989, participates in the Companys final salary published by institutional investor associations.
This provides a core These new incentive arrangements, under which benefit, which is non-contributory, of a pension future awards will be made, will be presented to accrual rate of 1 60th of final pensionable salary shareholders for approval at the 2002 AGM and for each year of service up to a limit of 2 3rds will take the form of a share option scheme.
No of final pensionable salary.
further awards will be made under the previously approved Initial and Annual Plans.
All other executive directors have a proportion of their base salary paid into an appropriate Share options defined contribution pension scheme.
Future long-term incentives will be made up Only base salary is used to calculate pension entirely of share options.
Executive directors will entitlement and no other pension supplements be considered for awards of options over ordinary apply.
shares on an annual basis.
Subject to approval of the proposed option scheme by shareholders Executive directors at the forthcoming AGM, the maximum value All executive directors have one-year rolling of shares placed under option to an individual service contracts with the Company.
in the financial year ending 31 March 2003 will The executive directors receive a range of benefits be 100 per cent of annual salary.
in kind, which include private medical insurance, Awards will only become exercisable, providing and life insurance on a similar basis to other the Company achieves the performance criteria senior executives.
set by the Board during the initial three-year Executive directors are allowed to accept period.
If the criteria have not been met when appointments as non-executive directors of other the options are due to vest then the options companies with the prior approval of the Chairman.
will lapse and there will be no opportunity for Approval will only be given where the appointment re-testing.
In addition, all options will expire does not present a conflict of interest with the after 10 years.
Companys activities and the wider exposure Options granted in the financial year 2002 03 gained will be beneficial to the development of under the proposed new share option scheme the individual.
The fees for these appointments will not normally become exercisable unless the will normally be paid to the Company.
growth in the Companys earnings per share adjusted for certain items including exceptional Nonexecutive directors remuneration items and the amortisation of goodwill exceeds None of the non-executive directors are employees the retail price index over the initial three-year of the Company and apart from the Chairman, period after award by an average of at least the non-executive directors receive no benefits or four per cent per annum.
entitlements other than fees and do not participate Earnings per share growth has been chosen as a in any of the Companys Incentive Schemes.
The good measure of value creation: it is aligned with Board as a whole determines the fees of the nonthe Companys corporate strategy and business executive directors.
The Company does not make goals and with the interests of shareholders.
The any contribution to the pension arrangements of Remuneration Committee will review performance non-executive directors.
measures and targets on an annual basis to Don Cruickshank was appointed on 25 May 2000, ensure that they remain suitably challenging initially until the 2003 AGM, as an Executive and aligned with shareholder value creation.
In this capacity he received shares and options under the Initial Plan in November 2000.
Share ownership guidelines On becoming non-executive Chairman he has To qualify for future awards under long-term foregone his entitlement to be considered for incentive schemes, executive directors and other further awards under the Exchanges incentive senior executives are required to build up and then schemes.
He retains an entitlement to medical hold shares with a value at least equal to their base salary.
insurance which was part of his original terms and conditions.
