Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee and Advisers a long term incentive plan and pensions, with a The remuneration committee has followed the significant proportion based on performance and provisions in the Directors Remuneration Report dependent upon the achievement of demanding targets.
Regulations 2002, the Listing Rules and the Combined Code in preparing this report.
The package is designed to support Cairns business strategy and to provide an appropriate incentive to The members of the remuneration committee are Hamish improve individual and corporate performance, whilst Grossart Chairman, Norman Murray and Ed Story.
ensuring that rewards are market competitive.
Details Mr Story replaced Norman Lessels CBE as a member of of the individual components of the package and of the remuneration committee of Cairn Energy Bangladesh contracts are given below.
PLC with effect from Mr Lessels retirement on 1 May 2002.
Since the scheme of arrangement became Basic Salary and Benefits effective, the remuneration committee has been Basic salary is reviewed annually by the remuneration appointed by the Company, which is the new holding committee.
The maximum increase in annual basic company of the Group.
The Chief Executive is not a salary from 2001 to 2002 was 6%.
Following the review member of the remuneration committee but may attend by New Bridge Street Consultants, it was identified that its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of its the basic salary levels of the executive directors were proposals.
generally below median and often in the lower quartile against all three comparator groups used in the review.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board, The remuneration committee subsequently within agreed terms of reference, on an overall recommended that the basic salaries of the executive remuneration package for directors and other senior directors be increased from 2002 levels by 16% for Bill executives.
The committee also determines specific Gammell, 33% for Mike Watts, and 22% for Kevin Hart remuneration packages for each of the executive and Malcolm Thoms.
These increases have taken effect directors, including pension rights and any for the year 2003. compensation payments.
Benefits available to the executive directors comprise a In October 2002, the remuneration committee company car, permanent health insurance, private appointed New Bridge Street Consultants, a leading health insurance and death in service benefit.
firm of executive remuneration consultants, to assess comparability of Cairns executive remuneration to the Share Option Schemes marketplace.
The executive directors remuneration Details of the Groups share option schemes are as packages were benchmarked against three comparator follows:- groups - oil and gas companies, Scottish companies and mid 250 companies.
Where appropriate, the Executive Share Option Scheme 1988 Scheme conclusions of the consultants review are included in The 1988 Scheme was adopted in 1988 and expired in this report in respect of various elements of the April 1998.
The date of grant of the last award of remuneration package.
options under the 1988 Scheme was 29 August 1995.
In addition, Ernst & Young LLP provide the Under the 1988 Scheme, options are exercisable three remuneration committee with independent verification to ten years following the date of grant.
No exercise of calculations to determine the number of shares may be made within three years of a previous exercise.
vesting pursuant to LTIP awards.
Ernst & Young LLP is also Cairns auditor.
Any person exercising options under the 1988 Scheme will receive shares in the new holding company.
Remuneration Policy Cairns policy on directors remuneration for the current 1996 Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme year and subsequent financial years is that the overall The 1996 Scheme was adopted in 1996.
The principal remuneration package should be sufficiently difference between the 1996 Scheme and the 1988 competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality Scheme is that the approval of the Inland Revenue was individuals capable of achieving the Groups objectives not sought for the 1996 Scheme.
The date of grant of and thereby enhancing shareholder value.
the first award of options under the 1996 Scheme was 29 May 1996.
The executive remuneration package currently consists of basic salary, benefits, performance related bonuses, CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 23 Directors Remuneration Report continued Options granted under the 1996 Scheme are exchange for the grant of new options over shares in exercisable three to ten years following the date of the new holding company.
The terms and conditions of grant and are normally subject to performance the new options will mirror, insofar as practicable, conditions on exercise.
At present, the option holder the terms and conditions of the options released.
may only exercise options if Cairns share price has No further awards of options will be made under the increased by 5% on a compound basis over the period 1996 Scheme, except for options granted to replace from the date of grant of options up to the date they the options released.
In addition, the percentage increase in Cairns share price over the period must be at least Any person exercising options under the 1996 Scheme equal to or greater than the percentage movement in will receive shares in the new holding company.
the FTSE Oil Exploration & Production sub-sector, being part of the FTSE Oil & Gas Index.
The table below assumes that each of the executive directors will release their existing options under the Cairns share option schemes are designed to provide 1996 Scheme in exchange for the grant of an employees with a long term incentive and as such, the equivalent number of new options over shares in the chosen share price performance criteria are deemed new holding company.
The terms of the new options appropriate by the remuneration committee and the performance period attaching to the exercise of the new options will commence on the date of Following the scheme of arrangement becoming grant of the old options, as shown in the table.
The effective, participants holding options under this share price performance conditions described earlier scheme have been invited to release such options in in this report apply to the exercise of these options.
Directors Interests in Share Options information subject to audit The total number of share options held by directors is as follows: At 01.01.02 Exercised in year At 31.12.02 At 24.03.03 Bill Gammell 205,000 - 205,000 205,000 Mike Watts 80,000 - 80,000 80,000 Kevin Hart 200,000 100,000 100,000 100,000 Malcolm Thoms 60,000 - 60,000 60,000 An analysis of options held by directors under each scheme during 2002 is as follows: 1988 Scheme Date of Grant Exercise Price Bill Gammell Mike Watts Kevin Hart Malcolm Thoms 31.08.94 0.78 55,000 - - - 1996 Scheme Date of Grant Exercise Price Bill Gammell Mike Watts Kevin Hart Malcolm Thoms 29.05.96 2.34 150,000 80,000 - 60,000 15.04.98 3.51 - - 100,000 - 02.09.98 1.10 - - 100,000 - Kevin Hart exercised the options shown in brackets on 9 May 2002 and subsequently sold 60,000 shares at a price of 3.415 per share.
The closing market value on the date of exercise was 3.37 per share, giving a potential aggregate gain on the exercise of 227,000.
The market value of one Cairn share at 31 December 2002 was 3.085.
During 2002, the range of the high and low market value of Cairn shares was 3.51 to 2.445.
"CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 24 2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan ""2002 Plan"" remuneration committee and the calculation of shares Cairn has established a new unapproved share option vesting based on these conditions is subject to plan for the grant of future awards."
mirrors insofar as practicable the provisions of the 1996 Scheme, including performance conditions.
Tier One A resolution will be put to the AGM on 7 May 2003 A Tier One award is an award of Cairn shares with the seeking approval of an amendment to the 2002 Plan, release of those shares being dependent upon the further details of which can be found in the separate executive remaining an employee and achievement of letter from the Chairman enclosed with this document.
performance conditions over the relevant performance period.
In any one year, the market value of Cairn Up to 5% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital from shares comprised in a Tier One award at the date of time to time may be placed under option under the grant will not exceed one and a half times a 1988 Scheme, the 1996 Scheme and the 2002 Plan in participants annual gross salary.
any rolling ten year period.
Vesting of the Tier One award is currently subject to a Proposed New Approved Share Option Plan total shareholder return TSR target which is A resolution will be put to the forthcoming AGM to calculated in two steps, each of which must be introduce a new Inland Revenue approved share option satisfied.
Full details of this proposal are included in the separate letter from the Chairman enclosed with this Step One document.
"First, the TSR of a Cairn share during the performance period is compared to the average TSR performance of Long Term Incentive Plan ""LTIP"" the companies comprising the FTSE Small Cap Index After being approved at the AGM on 4 May 1999, a excluding investment trusts the Index at the long term incentive plan was introduced in 1999 the beginning and at the end of the performance period."
"""1999 LTIP"" to reward the executive directors and If Cairns TSR performance exceeds the average TSR certain senior executives based on company performance of the Index, then the step one test has performance."
The step two test will then be used to calculate how many if any Cairn shares the subject of Following the scheme of arrangement becoming an award will vest.
effective on 19 February 2003, awards which had not already vested under the 1999 LTIP lapsed and no Step Two shares vested.
"The lapsed awards have been replaced Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares will be with awards under a new LTIP ""the 2002 LTIP""."
compared to the TSR of a share in each company in a The terms and conditions of these new awards mirror, comparator group comprising exploration, production insofar as practicable, the terms and conditions of the and integrated oil companies over the performance lapsed awards and are detailed below.
Each company will then be ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator The purpose of the 2002 LTIP remains unchanged from group list will determine how many if any Cairn shares the 1999 LTIP and is to align the interests of executive the subject of an award will vest, as follows: directors and certain senior executives with the interests of shareholders by providing a share based all the Cairn shares comprised in the award will vest if incentive.
The plan is designed to reward participants Cairns position in the comparator group is at the based on company performance and benefits are only upper quartile or above: delivered if challenging conditions are met.
Participants 20% of the Cairn shares comprised in the award will are required to hold 50% of any shares awarded vest if Cairn reaches the median in the comparator pursuant to vesting for a minimum of one year and are group: not entitled to receive additional grants of options between the median and upper quartile the number under the 1996 Scheme or the 2002 Plan.
of Cairn shares vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis: and The executive directors and senior executives eligible to no shares comprised in the award will vest if the TSR receive awards are determined by the remuneration of Cairn shares does not place it at the median or committee each year.
Participants may be granted Tier above in the comparator group.
One and Tier Two awards under the 2002 LTIP.
Performance conditions for each are determined by the CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 25 Directors Remuneration Report continued In addition, no Tier One award will vest unless the list will determine how many if any shares the subject remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been of an award will vest, as follows: a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial performance over the performance all of the benefit will vest if Cairn achieves position period.
number one in the comparator group: 40% of the benefit will vest if Cairn reaches the upper Tier Two quartile in the comparator group: A Tier Two award is a share appreciation right over a between the upper quartile and number one position, number of notional shares.
The benefit a participant the level of benefit vesting will be calculated on a may receive under a Tier Two award is calculated by straight line basis: and comparing Cairns share price increase over the no benefit will vest under this target if the TSR of performance period with the change in the average Cairn shares does not place it at the upper quartile or share price of the comparator group over the same above in the comparator group.
The increase in Cairns share price if any over the rise or fall in the average share price of the In addition, no Tier Two award will vest unless the comparator group over the performance period, is remuneration committee is satisfied that there has multiplied by the number of notional shares the subject been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in of the award.
This means that, for example, an absolute Cairns underlying financial performance over the increase in the Cairn share price over the comparator performance period.
group of 1 gives rise to a multiple of one.
The monetary figure is then converted into an actual number At the end of the performance period, 50% of vested of Cairn shares using the market value as at the date of shares under both Tier One and Tier Two awards will vesting.
Where there has been a fall in Cairns share be transferred to participants immediately, and the price, no Tier Two award will vest.
remaining shares will be transferred at the end of one year.
Vesting of the award will be dependent upon the executive remaining an employee, and upon the The 2002 LTP is designed to provide the executive achievement of performance conditions over the directors and othe senior executives with a long term performance period.
In any three year period, the incentive based on company performance.
As such, market value of the notional shares comprised in a Tier the performance criteria described on this and the Two award at the grant date will not exceed four times preceding page are deemed appropriate by the a participants annual gross salary.
Vesting of the Tier Two award is currently subject to a Comparator Group TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of The comparator group companies currently comprise which must be satisfied.
the following: Step One BP p. l. c. First, the TSR performance of Cairn shares will be Chevron Texaco Corporation compared to the average TSR performance of the Dana Petroleum plc Index over the performance period.
If Cairns TSR Exxon Mobil Corporation performance exceeds the TSR performance for the Fortune Oil PLC Index, the step one test has been passed.
Melrose Energy PLC The step two test will then be used to calculate how Occidental Petroleum Corporation much of the benefit if any will vest.
Paladin Resources plc Premier Oil plc Step Two Ramco Energy plc Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares will be Royal Dutch Petroleum Company compared to the TSR of a share in each company Shell Transport and Trading Co comprised in the comparator group over the SOCO International plc performance period.
As with Tier One awards, each Tullow Oil plc company will then be ranked in order of TSR performance.
Vested Awards information subject to audit 1999 LTIP The first vesting of awards pursuant to the 1999 LTIP A total of 1,326,844 shares vested of which occurred on 4 May 2002.
The performance period in 663,424 shares were transferred by the trustee of respect of these awards commenced on 4 May 1999 the 1999 LTIP to the executive directors and the and ended on 4 May 2002.
Calculations to determine the remainder withheld for a period of one year from the number of shares vesting based on the performance date of vesting.
criteria described earlier in this report were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 27 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2002 LTIP The first vesting of awards pursuant to the 2002 LTIP A total of 619,055 shares vested of which occurred on 17 March 2003.
The performance period in 309,529 shares were transferred by the trustee of respect of these awards commenced on 8 March 2000 the 2002 LTIP to the executive directors and the and ended on 8 March 2003.
Calculations to determine remainder withheld for a period of one year from the the number of shares vesting based on the performance date of vesting.
Annual Cash Bonus Scheme The remuneration committee has the discretion to award Cairns annual cash bonus scheme has been in place bonuses in addition to those payable under the annual since 1999 and applies to all employees and executive cash bonus scheme in recognition of particular efforts or directors.
Bonuses under the scheme are based on achievements by employees, including directors.
individual and company performance measures.
Individual performance is measured through the Pension Scheme Companys performance management system.
The Company is a participating employer in one Company performance measures are based on share defined contribution pension scheme in the UK - the price performance and annually defined key Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
scheme is non-contributory and all UK employees aged 21 and over are eligible to participate in the scheme.
Following the review by New Bridge Street Consultants, which identified the share price performance Bill Gammell, Mike Watts and Kevin Hart are members component as an unusual feature in an annual plan, of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme and in view of the application of share price and are entitled to a contribution to such scheme equal performance criteria to the longer term incentives, the to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries.
remuneration committee has approved the removal of Malcolm Thoms has a personal pension plan and this criterion in respect the annual cash bonus scheme receives a contribution from the Company equal to from the year 2003 onwards.
15% of his annual basic salary.
The maximum potential award for any individual for Service Contracts 2002 was 40% of salary.
The review by New Bridge The Companys policy is for all executive directors to Street Consultants identified that this bonus cap was have permanent contracts of service which can be below the median compared to all three comparator terminated by either the director concerned or the groups used in the review.
Consequently, the Company on giving 12 months notice of termination.
remuneration committee has approved an increase in On a change of control of the Company resulting in the the maximum potential award for the year 2003 to termination of a directors employment Mike Watts, 66.6% of salary for Bill Gammell and 50% of salary for Kevin Hart and Malcolm Thoms are each entitled to the other executive directors.
compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 28 salary and benefits as at the date of termination of The non-executive directors have letters of employment.
Bill Gammell had previously been entitled appointment which can be terminated with immediate to receive compensation of a sum equal to twice his effect by either the director concerned or the Company.
annual basic salary as at the date of termination of The letters of appointment do not contain a specific employment.
Mr Gammells contract has subsequently period - appointments and re-appointments of been amended to reduce this to a sum equal to his non-executive directors are subject to the Companys annual basic salary and benefits.
Articles of Association, which provide for retirement by rotation at least every three years.
The current service contracts and letters of appointment of the directors were entered into on 6 December 2002 and became effective on 19 February 2003 following the scheme of arrangement becoming effective.
All of the directors will offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Executive service contracts Effective Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Bill Gammell 19.02.03 N A 12 months Mike Watts 19.02.03 N A 12 months Kevin Hart 19.02.03 N A 12 months Malcolm Thoms 19.02.03 N A 12 months Non-executive letters of appointment Norman Murray 19.02.03 N A None Hamish Grossart 19.02.03 N A None Ed Story 19.02.03 N A None The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes that these fees were generally at median when the form solely of fees, which are set by the board compared to the benchmark information.
The board having taken advice on appropriate levels.
The review subsequently recommended that the fees of the nonby New Bridge Street Consultants also considered the executive directors be increased from 2002 levels by fees payable to non-executive directors, which were 23% for Norman Murray and 10% for Hamish Grossart benchmarked against a number of published surveys and Ed Story.
These increases have taken effect for the on non-executive remuneration.
2 The annual bonus for 2002 is payable in the subsequent financial year.
3 This payment was made to Malcolm Thoms as compensation for approximately six weeks without the use of a company car.
4 This ex-gratia payment was made to Norman Lessels CBE as compensation for loss of office following his retirement as a non-executive director and chairman on 1 May 2002.
5 Peter Fowler CMG retired as a non-executive director on 26 August 2001.
In addition to the figure shown in the table above Mr Fowler received 12,800 consultancy fees, payable in respect of his provision of advisory, non-directorial services during 2001.
6 No remuneration was paid by the Company to the directors for the period ended 31 December 2002.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 30 Performance Graphs The FTSE 250 Index was selected as an appropriate The graphs compare Cairns TSR with that of the chosen comparator index for the two performance graphs index.
The bar chart is being presented as additional shown below as it represents a broad equity market information to that required by the Directors index in which Cairn is a constituent member.
