1491 Paragon R&A a w 13 1 03 12:55 pm Page 18 report of the board to the shareholders on directors remuneration Remuneration Committee Performance bonuses The Committee consists solely of three non-executive directors: Bonuses are earned under performance related schemes based David Hoare, Gavin Lickley and Christopher Newell.
upon individual performance and that of the Group as a whole.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is David Hoare Bonuses are normally paid in October but are accrued in the following the resignation of William Hulton from the Board of year to which they relate.
None of the directors comprising the Pension contributions Committee have any personal financial interests other than as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from crossDuring the year, two of the executive directors were members of directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the the Group Retirement Benefits Plan, to which the Company business.
The Committee consults the Chairman and Chief contributes at the same rate as for all members, while in respect Executive about its proposals and has access to professional of one executive director the Company paid monthly advice from within and outside the Company.
contributions into his personal pension scheme.
Dependants of executive directors who are members of the The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive Group Retirement Benefits Plan are eligible for a dependants remuneration and specific compensation packages for each of pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death the executive directors.
No director contributes to any in service.
The pension arrangements provide for a pension of discussion about his own remuneration.
1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every Remuneration policy year of eligible service.
Where pension contributions are capped, additional payments are made to enable further provision.
The Companys policy is to ensure that executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual performance, having regard The changes in pension entitlements arising in the financial to the importance of retention and motivation.
The performance year, the disclosure of which is required by the Financial measurement of the executive directors and the determination Services Authority, are given in note 4 to the accounts.
of their annual remuneration packages is undertaken by the There have been no changes in the terms of directors pension Committee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is entitlements during the year.
There are no unfunded promises determined by the Board.
or similar arrangements for directors.
In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee Share options has given full consideration to Section B.
1 of the Combined Executive directors existing share options were granted under Code on Corporate Governance.
the Senior Executive, Executive ESOP, Paragon 1999 The remuneration packages of the individual directors Sharesave and Paragon 2000 Executive Share Option Schemes.
have been assessed after a review of their individual The Senior Executive Scheme requires the consolidated earnings performances and an assessment of comparable positions per share to increase at a rate in excess of the retail price index in the financial sector.
over a period of three years from the date the option is granted.
The exercise of options granted under the ESOP Executive All executive directors are remunerated by means of a Share Option and Paragon 1999 Sharesave Schemes is not combination of salary, performance bonus, pension scheme dependent upon performance criteria.
The Paragon 2000 contributions, benefits in kind and by the award of share Executive scheme requires total shareholder return to exceed options or shadow share options from time to time.
the average for a range of other companies.
Salary 18 Acting on the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee, the Board proposes a new performance share plan, An executive directors salary is determined by the a summary of the rules of which is being distributed to the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
shareholders with this report and to which the approval of the In deciding appropriate levels the Committee considers the shareholders will be sought at the Annual General Meeting.
Group as a whole and relies on objective research which gives up-to-date information on comparable companies.
Executive directors contracts of service, which include details of remuneration, will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
the paragon group of companies plc
