ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 43 Remuneration Report The following report by, and recommendations of, the performance as well as being market competitive.
When assessing Remuneration Committee have been approved without the competitive market, the Committee considers international, as amendment by the Board, for submission to shareholders.
well as UK, trends in remuneration, taking into account that over half of the Groups revenues are earned outside the UK and 50% Remuneration Committee of the senior management team are not UK citizens.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for all aspects of remuneration paid to executive directors and certain senior The Committees policy is to relate basic salaries to the mid executives, and makes recommendations to the Board on the market pay levels of companies of comparable size and remuneration policy and strategy for these employees.
Its members complexity, including both international financial services and are all independent non-executive directors.
The current membership other listed companies.
The Group aims to encourage top is Nicholas Barber Chairman, Bob Ayling, John Baker, Sir Patrick quartile performance by means of a balanced mixture of short Gillam, Susan Hooper and Carole St Mark.
Susan Hooper and term and long term incentive schemes.
John Baker joined the Remuneration Committee during the year.
Remuneration for executives in 2002 consisted of four In developing the remuneration framework, the Committee principal elements: actively seeks advice and survey data where necessary, from various independent specialist remuneration consultants.
base salary: Our current advisors are Mercer Human Resource Consulting and Monks Partnership.
In framing its policy, the Committee annual performance bonus: has taken account of the relevant provisions of the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority executive share option scheme: and and the composition of the Committee is consistent with the pension provision and other benets.
During the year the Committee sought the assistance of the Where appropriate, the Group encourages senior managers Group Chief Executive on matters relating to his subordinates to accept, subject to the approval of the Chairman and Group performance and remuneration.
The Group Chief Executive was Chief Executive, an invitation to join the Board of another present at all meetings of the Remuneration Committee, except company in a non-executive capacity.
The Group recognises when his remuneration arrangements were discussed.
the value this wider experience brings.
In these circumstances, such managers are permitted to retain the remuneration from Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, their non-executive appointment.
other than as shareholders, in the Committees decisions.
They have no conicts of interest arising from cross directorships nor The Remuneration Committee will be carrying out a review of from being involved in day to day business of the Company.
remuneration and incentive policies during the year, together with The Committee met six times in the period under review.
the new executive management team, to ensure that such policies continue to meet overall objectives and support future business Remuneration policy strategy.
This review will balance the need to structure the Details of individual directors emoluments are set out on pages Companys remuneration and incentives policies in a way that 46 to 48 and directors share interests and share options on pages supports the business objectives, in the short and medium to 48 and 49 of this document.
long term, with the need to ensure that executive packages as a whole are sufficient to recruit, retain and motivate.
This is very The Remuneration Committee has sought to develop a framework important in the current, very challenging environment.
The for remuneration that supports the Groups business strategy.
review will be carried out including consultation with the Within this it sets the remuneration of individual executives Companys institutional shareholders.
and directors appropriate to the particular market in which the Company operates.
The policy is kept under annual review to Details of the current remuneration package are as follows: take account of pay and conditions throughout the Group, emerging best practice and changes in the business environment.
Base salary Utilising the input from the external specialists, noted above, base The policy aims to: salaries are targeted at the market median taking into account the directors experience, performance, and responsibilities and ensure the attraction, retention and motivation of high the level of salaries paid to executives performing comparable calibre individuals: functions.
Salaries are determined in local currencies where align the interests of the executive directors as closely appropriate.
In 2002, base salaries increased by an average as possible with those of shareholders: of 9.6% reecting a shift in the market and individual roles.
develop incentive plans that promote a high Annual incentive scheme performance culture: In addition to base salary, each executive is entitled to participate in the annual incentive scheme.
Under this scheme encourage consistency of performance: executives can achieve up to 100% of basic salary 120% for Bob Gunn in the event of exceptional corporate financial and ensure that total rewards are competitive with the market in individual performance.
which we operate: and The annual incentive scheme is primarily based on the Groups operate remuneration plans that are transparent to investors.
and divisional where appropriate annual net real return on risk based capital RORBC, combined with individual objectives.
The Committee believes that individual remuneration should be appropriate to the scale of responsibility and individual Awards of up to 40% of basic salary 50% for Bob Gunn are payable if target performance is achieved.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 44 Remuneration Report continued Annual bonuses for senior executives with Regional responsibility The Group also operates savings related share option schemes, are based 70% on the performance of their Region and 30% which are open to all staff in the UK and 13 other countries on Group results.
Currently almost 80% of the Groups employees participate in at least one share plan.
In respect of bonus year 2002 personal performance and New Group Chief Executive continuity bonus payments of 300,000 were made in respect As noted above, the Company can in exceptional circumstances of Bob Gunn and 100,000 for Julian Hance.
The payment to grant options in excess of the normal limits provided that any Bob Gunn takes account of the responsibility he assumed grant, in excess of the four times salary limit under ESOS rules, when acting as Group Chief Executive.
A retention and continuity is funded by way of market purchased shares.
bonus of 250,000 was introduced for Julian Hance payable at 31 December 2003.
During 2002 Paul Spencer, Chief Executive After due consideration, and taking external advice from of the UK, resigned and as part of his settlement package was remuneration consultants, the Board agreed that Andy Haste awarded 115,000 in recognition of the services rendered towards should, on joining the Company, receive an initial grant of executive the UK business meeting its business targets.
share options of three times his base salary and in August 2003 a further grant equal to two times his base salary.
The amount of Long term incentive schemes grant in excess of the limits under the ESOS will be funded by way The Group currently offers a single long term incentive scheme of market purchased shares.
These options will be subject to the to senior executives, with the exception of Bob Mendelsohn who rules and performance conditions of the ESOS scheme applicable had additional arrangements, until his resignation on 31 October at the time of grant as detailed above.
The introduction of the existing executive share option scheme, approved by shareholders in 1999, followed a detailed Share ownership guidelines review by the Remuneration Committee.
Share options are seen Under ESOS the executive directors and certain other senior as an important element of performance related rewards, executives are currently required over five years to build and retain aligning executives closely with shareholders and reinforcing a minimum shareholding of Royal & SunAlliance shares, equivalent financial performance.
to at least one times their base salary.
All participants in the US scheme are covered by share holding guidelines requiring Under the scheme, executives can normally be granted options participants to hold Royal & SunAlliance shares of up to three annually over shares at market value of up to one times base times basic salary.
In exceptional circumstances, and in line with ABI guidelines, the Company may grant options over shares above Other benets these limits.
All options granted under this scheme are exercisable In addition to participation in the annual and long term incentive between three and ten years after grant.
Under the current arrangements, the Company provides senior executives with a scheme, options may be exercised if the Companys net of tax and range of competitive benets, such as death in service, life cover, ination return on capital ROC exceeds 6% per annum over private health insurance and company car allowance.
The taxable a three year period.
The test operates on a rolling basis which value of these benets is included in the table on page 46. means that it can be satisfied over any three year period during the ten year life of an option.
No options will be granted with an Service contracts exercise price below market value.
The scheme is funded through Directors holding executive ofce have service contracts, the a combination of new issue shares and shares purchased in the terms of which are considered by the Remuneration Committee market and dilution levels are held strictly within ABI limits, 10% to provide a proper balance of duties and security between the over ten years for all schemes and 5% for executive schemes.
It is the Companys intention that the notice period for new executive appointments will be one year.
All executive share options granted under previous schemes between 1996 and 1997 were subject to the performance Julian Hances contract dated 1 April 1997 is terminable on condition that average total shareholder return must at least one years notice.
If not so terminated, the contract continues equal the median of the FTSE 100 companies for a period of until he attains age 62.
Bob Gunn is employed under a three years prior to exercise.
No performance conditions apply Canadian employment agreement, dated 2 May 1973 that to executive options granted in 1994 and 1995. does not provide for notice.
Termination provisions are a matter for mutual agreement in the context of Canadian employment In 2001, the Annual General Meeting AGM approved the law and practice.
Bob Gunn will retire from the Company on introduction of a stock option scheme for US employed managers 30 September 2003.
The details of Bob Gunns retirement based upon US market practice.
Grants of options granted over arrangements are shown on page 48.
American Depository Shares, are normally made twice a year.
The USAs most senior manager is eligible to receive options of 3.6 In the case of all executive directors, dismissal by the employer times basic salary per annum.
All options will vest after seven without notice and in the absence of specic grounds may require years, although vesting can be accelerated by the US subsidiarys pay in lieu of the corresponding notice periods.
outperformance as measured by ROC.
Bob Mendelsohn and Paul Spencer both had contracts that were In the three years to 31 December 2002 performance conditions terminable by the employer on two years notice.
were not met and hence no options have vested under any Re-election of directors scheme over the period.
At the AGM, John Baker and Bob Ayling will be retiring by Approval is being sought at the 2003 AGM to remove from rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election the rules of the 1999 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS the under Article 106 of the Articles of Association.
John Napier, dilution limits which are no longer required by the ABI.
At the who became a director on 9 January 2003, and Andy Haste, same time the performance criteria for vesting of options will who will be appointed a director on 2 April 2003, being eligible, be strengthened by limiting the number of re tests to one, will offer themselves for reappointment under Article 110 of on the fourth anniversary of the option grant.
Previous Contents Next I I ROYAL & SUNALLIANCE ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2002 45 Non-executive directors Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance Those directors appointed to a non-executive role do not have and FTSE 100 service contracts and are not entitled to bonus payments or 150 pension arrangements.
They do not participate in the Groups long term incentive arrangements.
The Articles of Association 120 provide that the remuneration paid to non-executive directors is to be determined by the Board within the overall limit set by 90 the shareholders.
The fee set in 1999 was 35,000 per annum, with an additional fee of 10,000 for chairing the Audit & 60 Compliance Committee and the Remuneration Committee, as these were recognised as particularly onerous.
The fee payable 30 Royal & SunAlliance return index to the Deputy Chairman remained at 60,000.
John Napier FTSE 100 return index received a fee at the rate of 60,000 per annum from his 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 appointment on 9 January 2003 to taking over as Chairman on 17 March 2003.
From that date he will receive a fee at the rate of 250,000 per annum.
This figure was determined by the Board after taking advice from the Groups independent Nicholas Barber remuneration consultants that it compared with similar Chairman of Remuneration Committee, appointments in international and financial services companies.
on behalf of the Board Other than in respect of John Napier the fees payable to nonLondon, 5 March 2003 executive directors were not reviewed in 2002.
During 2002, the Board met twelve times.
In addition, throughout the year, the non-executive directors met independently of the executive directors.
Audit requirements The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 introduced a new requirement for part of the Remuneration Report the auditable part to be audited.
The auditable part of the Remuneration Report is the part containing the information required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and has been identied in the headings of the relevant parts of this report.
Total shareholder return Total shareholder return, comprising the change in value of a stock over time taking into account any dividends distributed, can be represented by the value of a notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period, giving credit for dividends declared during that period.
Below is a graph showing the change in value for Royal & SunAlliance shares over the five years from 31 December 1997.
That change is compared with the notional return from 100 invested in the FTSE World Europe Insurance index.
This index comprises the range of European life and general insurance businesses, which most closely matches with our trading competitor peer group.
Total shareholder return for Royal & SunAlliance and FTSE World Europe Insurance index 200 150 100 50 Royal & SunAlliance return index FTSE World Europe Insurance return index 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 For information the Royal & SunAlliance line as above is also compared with the total FTSE 100 index return.
Previous Contents Next I I Value of 100 invested on 31 December 1997 Value of 100 invested on 31 December 1997
