Remuneration report CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration policy of the Company is set by the board.
The remuneration committee makes recommendations to the board, within agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
The members of the remuneration committee, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are set out on page 33.
The committee is also responsible for the implementation of remuneration policy and determining on behalf of the board specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
To assist in reaching its decisions, the committee has access to survey information and independent advice where it considers it appropriate.
The remuneration policy was established at the time of the demerger with advice from independent remuneration consultants.
As the policy and its implementation have not subsequently been changed significantly, the committee has not needed to take specific advice from external consultants during the year.
The committee consults with the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer as appropriate with regard to its proposals relating to the remuneration of the executive directors.
In framing the policy, the board has regard to the views of shareholders and seeks to ensure that contact with shareholders is maintained on remuneration as with other matters.
The board has considered the principles and provisions of the Combined Code and this report explains how the Company has applied the principles in the code which relate to directors remuneration.
Policy on Directors Remuneration The Companys policy with respect to directors remuneration is to maintain a remuneration structure capable of attracting, motivating and retaining high-quality individuals within a cost-effective framework.
It seeks to reward executive directors and senior employees within the Group competitively, taking into account the Companys performance, the markets in which the Group operates, and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
In constructing the remuneration packages, the emphasis is on linking reward to both short-term and long-term performance objectives and accordingly, as explained in more detail below, for each of the executive directors a significant proportion of the remuneration package is performance related.
The packages include participation in the companys long-term incentive plans, which comprise a deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan and an executive share option plan.
The plans are designed to align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
The remuneration committee seeks to ensure that the operation of the plans in practice is consistent with their overall objectives, recommending changes to achieve this if necessary.
During the year, on the recommendation of the committee, changes were made to the rules of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan and discretion was exercised in respect of the executive share option plan so that the effect on the plans of the proposed dual listed company transaction with Carnival is substantially the same as would have been the case had Carnivals previously-announced share-exchange offer proceeded.
The main components of remuneration for executive directors and, where relevant, the performance criteria on which they are based, are set out below.
In agreeing the level of base salaries and the annual performance bonus, the committee takes into consideration the total remuneration available to executives and has the discretion to vary individual elements of the remuneration package.
Base salary Base salaries are set at levels competitive with pay for directors and executives based in similar locations and holding equivalent positions in comparable companies.
Benefits in kind These principally comprise car benefits, life assurance and membership of the Groups healthcare insurance schemes.
The level of benefits provided to executive directors is consistent with that provided by other major companies.
These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Annual bonus The annual bonus earned in any year is dependent on the extent to which performance targets are achieved.
Targets for directors, which are common to each director and approved by the remuneration committee, are based on the Groups earnings per share, as the committee is of the view that this is the most appropriate measure of the performance of the executive directors The targets, which are set at the beginning of the relevant year based on group budgets, are designed to take account of the anticipated trading environment.
For example, in 2002, the targets took account of the difficult trading conditions faced by the Group in the aftermath of the terrorist incidents on September 11, 2001.
The maximum annual bonus that can be earned by directors is 75% of base salary 100% in the case of the Chief Executive Officer.
Subject to the discretion of the remuneration committee, half of the bonus is paid in cash with the balance awarded in shares as a share award for the purpose of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan, as described below.
Long-term incentive plans DEFERRED BONUS AND CO-INVESTMENT MATCHING PLAN The deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan provides participants with the opportunity to receive matching awards of shares depending upon the performance of the Company over a specified retention period.
Share awards granted to participants are automatically invested in the plan and, in addition, participants may choose to invest all or part of their post-tax cash bonus, or funds from their own resources, into the plan invested shares subject to an overall limit on the amount invested in the plan in any one year of 75% of base salary 100% in the case of the Chief Executive Officer.
An award of shares equivalent to the total of a participants share award and gross value of invested shares is granted to a participant a matching award.
The extent to which a new matching award may be exercised is based on the growth in earnings per share of the Company over the three-year retention period as disclosed in the audited financial statements.
If the Company achieves earnings per share growth of 15% over this period, participants will be entitled to exercise 25% of their matching award.
If earnings per share growth is 50%, the entire matching award may be exercised.
For growth between 15% and 50%, the extent to which a matching award may be exercised is determined on a straight-line basis between these points.
Generally, the matching award may only be exercised if the share award and invested shares are retained throughout the retention period.
The remuneration committee, which regularly reviews these performance thresholds, believes that they provide appropriately stretching targets taking account of the Company, its competitors and the nature of the industry in which it operates.
In framing the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan when it was launched in 2000, the board sought to encourage participants to commit their own resources to the plan, believing this to be an important aspect of aligning participants interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, the plan was designed to be competitive in all territories in which participants are based, including the United States.
For these reasons, the plan was based on a two-year retention period.
However, in June 2002, on the recommendation of the remuneration committee the board 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 35 Remuneration report agreed that all future share and matching awards would have retention periods of three years, consistent with the recommendations of Schedule A to the Combined Code.
In addition, the retention period of existing share and matching awards held by executive directors was extended to three years.
The remuneration committee did not consider it appropriate to adjust the performance targets for existing matching awards following extension of the retention periods.
Consequently, the thresholds at which participants will be able to exercise between 25% and 100% of existing matching awards remain the achievement by the Company of earnings per share growth of between 10% and 40% respectively over the relevant performance period.
However, if the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, all share awards will vest and be released and all matching awards granted prior to 2003 and outstanding at completion will be immediately exercisable in full.
In reaching its decision to allow the exercise in full of all matching awards on completion of the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation, the remuneration committee has taken account of the Companys relative total shareholder return performance as shown below.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OPTION PLAN Options at market value at the date of grant are granted to eligible employees based on guidelines approved by the remuneration committee.
These guidelines govern the total number of options which may be granted and the frequency of awards and ensure that the progression to maximum awards is within individual and overall limits authorised by shareholders, so phasing grants of options to executives over a number of years.
Options granted to directors may not be exercised unless the growth in the Companys earnings per share over a period of at least three years from grant, as disclosed in the audited financial statements, exceeds the growth in an appropriate recognised index of retail prices by an average of at least 3% per annum.
The remuneration committee, which regularly reviews performance criteria, believes targets based on earnings per share growth to be the most suitable in assessing performance of the executive directors and considers this target to be appropriate in the context of the aims of the boards remuneration policy.
Options granted to other executives are not subject to any performance condition.
If the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, all share options outstanding at completion will vest and any performance conditions will cease to apply.
To ensure appropriate phasing of grants of share options, the value of shares under option granted to directors and certain other senior executives in any year is normally limited to 150% of base salary.
Lower limits apply to other executives.
The remuneration committee reserves the right to vary these limits if it determines that exceptional circumstances exist.
The Company has the facility to require option holders to assume any liability to employers national insurance contributions arising on the exercise of Inland Revenue-unapproved options, and may grant additional options in recognition of the liability being assumed.
Retirement benefits The Group operates various retirement benefit schemes for its executives in which the executive directors also participate.
Further details of these are set out below.
Retirement benefits are based solely on base salary: no other emoluments are pensionable.
Non-executive directors The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the board within the limits set out in the articles of association of the Company.
Non-executive directors receive a basic fee and additional fees if they serve as deputy chairman of the board or as chairman of any board committees.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Groups long-term incentive or pension plans.
Service contracts It is the policy of the company that service contracts with executive directors should not be of more than 12 months duration.
Lord Sterling, who has a service contract with the Company which came into effect on October 23, 2000 and which is terminable by the Company on 12 months notice, was due to retire from the Board on October 23, 2002 but agreed to continue his service until the Company concluded its proposed transactions with either Carnival Corporation or Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd.
He will therefore retire from the board, and, due notice having been given, his service contract will expire, on completion of the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation.
Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff each have service contracts with the Company which came into effect on October 23, 2000 and which may be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice.
In the case of early termination of their contracts by the Company without cause, these contracts provide for payments in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary, benefits and a bonus equivalent to that paid in respect of the year preceding the year in which employment terminates.
If the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, Nick Luffs service contract will be terminated by the Company on this basis with a payment in lieu of notice of 583,250 $877,200.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but instead have a letter or agreement setting out the terms and conditions of their appointment.
Each of the non-executive directors has been appointed for an initial term of five years, although the appointment may be terminated by either the director or the Company giving 12 months notice.
In addition, the appointments are subject to the provisions of the articles of association of the Company.
In the case of Sir John Cumulative total shareholder return Parker, Baroness Hogg and Peter Foy, these agreements and their initial term came 180 into effect on September 18, 2000.
Horst Rahes appointment and initial term came 160 into effect on May 16, 2001.
On September 26, 2002, Sir John Parker was appointed as deputy chairman of the board, an appointment that will terminate automatically, 140 without any notice having to be given, if the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival 120 Corporation is completed.
If the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival 100 Corporation is completed, the appointments of Peter Foy and Horst Rahe as nonexecutive directors will be terminated by the Company with payments of 32,500 80 $48,900 and 25,000 $ 37,600 respectively.
60 Total shareholder return 40 The Company commenced to trade on October 23, 2000 following its demerger from The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company.
The chart shows the 20 cumulative total shareholder return of the company since that date.
For comparison, 0 the chart also shows the total shareholder return of the FTSE All-Share index 2000 2001 2002 which provides a broad representation of the companys peer group in terms of P&O Princess FTSE All-Share index its size and stage of development.
Source: DATASTREAM 36 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002 Indexed October 23, 2000 100 Remuneration report DETAILS OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The auditors are required to report on the information contained on pages 37 to 40 of the Remuneration report.
Fees, Salaries and Bonuses The remuneration of the directors, excluding pension benefits, for 2002 is set out in the following table.
As part of their annual bonus for the year, the Chairman and the other executive directors will receive a share award which will comprise shares to the value of the amount shown in the table.
In accordance with the terms of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan, the share awards will be subject to a three-year retention period and will be eligible for a corresponding matching award.
With effect from January 1, 2003, Peter Ratcliffes salary was increased to $832,000 and Nick Luffs salary was increased to 295,000.
Non-executive directors receive a basic fee of 25,000 and an additional fee of 7,500 per annum if they serve as chairman of any board committees.
Until September 26, 2002, Peter Foy received fees at a total annual rate of 130,000, representing fees payable as a non-executive director and as deputy chairman.
Following his decision to step down from the position of deputy chairman on that date, the fee payable to him was reduced accordingly and Sir John Parker, who took up the appointment, received fees at the rate of 105,000 per annum in addition to fees payable as a non-executive director.
With the exception of amounts paid to Peter Ratcliffe, the remuneration of directors was in sterling and has been converted into U. S. dollars at the average rate for the year of $1.504:1.
The Company retains a serviced apartment in London at an annual rent of 120,800 $181,700.
This is available for the use of executives, including Peter Ratcliffe, for accommodation whilst visiting London on the Companys business.
Pensions The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive any pension benefits from the Company.
Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff are each members of the P&O Princess Cruises Pension Scheme the U. K. Scheme, a U. K. resident defined-benefit scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
Peter Ratcliffe accrues pension rights under the U. K. scheme at a rate of up to 1 45th of final salary for each year of service.
For this purpose, final salary is defined as the basic salary received in the final 12 months of service.
The benefits payable to Nick Luff from the U. K. Scheme are restricted by Inland Revenue limits, including the earnings cap.
He accrues pension rights at the rate of 1 82nd of the earnings cap currently 97,200 $146,200 for each year of service.
The Company also operates a funded unapproved retirement benefit scheme FURBS for Nick Luff.
This operates on a defined contribution basis and the total amount payable by the Company during the year was 58,800 $88,400.
Peter Ratcliffe is also a member of the Princess Cruises Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan in the U. S. the Supplemental Plan.
This plan provides benefits to supplement those received from other plans, including the U. K. Scheme.
The overall effect is to provide, on retirement, a pension of 65% of final salary, subject to having completed 15 years service.
For this purpose, final salary is the average basic salary for the five years immediately preceding retirement.
Normal retirement age is 60 and the pension is payable in full to Mr Ratcliffe or, on his death, to his widow.
Benefits from the U. K. Scheme can exceed those resulting from the Supplemental Plan, in which case no further amounts would be received from the Supplemental Plan.
In addition, Peter Ratcliffe is also a member of the Princess Cruises Retirement Savings Plan in the U. S. This is a defined-contribution 401 k plan and the contribution payable by the Company in respect of the year was $11,000.
Details of the retirement benefits of directors arising from their participation in defined-benefit pension arrangements are set out below: Transfer value of increase in accrued benefits Decrease in Increase in Increase in net of inflation transfer value Accrued benefit at accrued benefits accrued benefits and directors Transfer value Transfer value at net of directors Dec 31, 2002 including inflation excluding inflation contributions at Jan 1, 2002 Dec 31, 2002 contributions U. S. $000 U. S. $000 U. S. $000 U. S. $000 U. S. $000 U. S. $000 U. S. $000 Peter Ratcliffe 492 18 10 123 6,571 6,237 334 Nick Luff 51 3 2 1 290 237 60 The accrued benefit is that pension which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, the normal retirement age under the pension scheme in the U. K. based on service to December 31, 2002.
EARLY RETIREMENT In the event of compulsory early retirement, or voluntary early retirement after the age of 55, Peter Ratcliffe would receive a minimum pension of two thirds of final salary.
In the event of voluntary retirement before the age of 55, the minimum pension is reduced pro rata 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 37 Remuneration report for actual service compared with potential service to age 60.
In the event of voluntary retirement after the age of 50, Nick Luff would receive a pension determined according to actual pensionable service, reduced to take account of payment prior to normal retirement age.
In the event of compulsory early retirement after the age of 53, no such reduction would be made.
If compulsory early retirement were to take place between the ages of 50 and 53, the pension would be reduced to take account of payment prior to the age of 53.
Peter Ratcliffes service in the Supplemental Plan commenced on September 1, 1986.
As his service exceeds 15 years, the maximum pension would be payable on retirement.
However, there is an actuarial reduction if a pension is drawn under the age of 55 following voluntary early retirement.
DEATH-IN-SERVICE BENEFITS The U. K. Scheme provides death-in-service benefits to Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff.
In the event of death before retirement, a lump sum is payable of four times basic salary or pensionable earnings, whichever is the higher, or, if applicable, four times the earnings cap at the date of death together with a refund of the members contributions.
In addition, a spouses or dependants pension is payable, equivalent to 66% of the pension prior to commutation that would have been payable to the member had he continued in service until normal retirement date.
Childrens pensions of 25% of the spouses pension may also be payable.
As the death-in-service benefits provided by the U. K. Scheme to Nick Luff are restricted by Inland Revenue limits, and as Lord Sterling is not a member of the U. K. Scheme, additional life assurance cover is purchased on their behalf.
The relevant premiums are included within the table on page 37 as a benefit-in-kind.
The U. K. Scheme also provides pensions in the event of the total incapacity or ill-health of a member.
PENSION INCREASES IN RETIREMENT Pensions in payment arising from the U. K. Scheme are increased each year in line with the Retail Price Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
Pensions in payment from the Supplemental Plan are not increased after retirement.
A nominal consideration of 1 per award was payable to exercise each award and the value of the shares on exercise was 4.115 per share.
The exercise of the awards gave rise to an income tax charge which was financed by the sale, on the same date, of 31,804 shares, 43,213 shares and 14,823 shares by Lord Sterling, Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff respectively at a price of 4.115 pence per share.
On March 4, 2002 Nick Luff purchased 2,000 shares at a price of 4.10 per share.
On November 21, 2002, Peter Ratcliffe acquired 214,976 shares through the exercise of a P&O LTIP Option.
A nominal consideration of 1 was payable to exercise the option and the value of the shares on exercise was 4.905 per share.
The value of the option on exercise was therefore 1,054,456 $1,585,902.
The exercise of the option gave rise to an income tax charge which was financed by the sale, on the same date, of 107,500 shares at a price of 4.905 per share.
On December 18, 2002, Deutsche Seereederei GmbH DS, a company wholly-owned by Horst Rahe and his family, entered into a share sale agreement the Agreement with Commerzbank AG Commerzbank for German tax-planning purposes.
The Agreement is in respect of the 11,366,415 ordinary shares of P&O Princess owned by DS the Shares which comprise Mr Rahes interest in the ordinary shares of P&O Princess.
It will result in DS disposing of its interest in the Shares on June 23, 2003, or earlier if it so elects, but until then, through DS, Mr Rahe retains full economic interest in the Shares.
Under the Agreement, on December 18, 2002, DS transferred the Shares to Commerzbank for 50,580,547 $76,073,143 4.45 per share.
At the same time, DS entered into a total return swap agreement with Commerzbank under which the Shares will be valued on June 23, 2003 or earlier, if DS so elects the Valuation Date.
To the extent that the valuation of the Shares on the Valuation Date the Final Price exceeds 4.478 per share the Initial Price, Commerzbank will pay the difference to DS.
Conversely, if the Final Price is less than the Initial Price, DS will pay the difference to Commerzbank.
Any dividends receivable in respect of the Shares prior to the Valuation Date will be for the benefit of DS.
The ordinary shares above include 33,888 shares, 42,952 shares and 45,274 shares, in the case of Lord Sterling, Peter Ratcilffe and Nicholas Luff respectively, that have been designated as Invested Shares for the purpose of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan.
As described below, matching awards have been granted to each individual in respect of the ordinary shares they have designated as Invested Shares.
P&O LTIP Options P&O LTIP Options are options over ordinary shares granted on October 24, 2000 to directors who, through arrangements put in place for the purposes of the demerger from P&O, exchanged fully-vested awards previously granted under P&O incentive schemes for such options.
The options are exercisable on payment of 1 and will lapse on March 27, 2005.
The market value of the shares at the date of grant was 2.92 per share.
The number of shares to which P&O LTIP Options relate increased during the year due to shares allocated or purchased by the Trustee in lieu of dividends foregone.
P&O LTIP Awards P&O LTIP Awards comprise two awards of ordinary shares granted on October 24, 2000 to directors who, through arrangements put in place for the purposes of the demerger from P&O, exchanged awards granted under P&O incentive schemes for which the retention period had not been completed for such awards.
One half of the shares comprising an individuals P&O LTIP Award represented a 2001 LTIP Award and the other half represented a 2002 LTIP Award.
Each of Lord Sterling, Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff exercised their 2001 LTIP Awards on March 4, 2002.
The 2002 LTIP Awards are exercisable no earlier than the date on which the Company announces its results for the year ended December 31, 2003, the retention period having been extended during the year in line with the boards decision to extend to three years the retention period of awards granted to directors under the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan.
However, if and when the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, the 2002 LTIP Awards will vest and become exercisable.
Each award lapses three months after it becomes exercisable.
The number of shares to which P&O LTIP Awards relate increased during the year due to shares allocated by the Trustee in lieu of dividends foregone.
The P&O LTIP Awards are eligible for matching awards in accordance with the rules of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan.
Share Awards Share Awards comprise awards of ordinary shares under the terms of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan.
Lord Sterling, Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff were granted awards on March 4, 2002 in respect of their 2001 annual bonus, the value of which was disclosed in the 2001 Annual Report.
The market value of the shares comprising these awards on the day of grant was 4.0775 per share.
The number of shares to which Share Awards relate increased during the year due to shares allocated by the Trustee in lieu of dividends foregone.
Share Awards are eligible for Matching Awards in accordance with the rules of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan.
Share Awards are subject to a retention period of three years from grant.
None of the awards shown above is currently vested but, if and when the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, the Share Awards will vest and be released.
Matching Awards Matching Awards are granted in respect of P&O LTIP Awards, Share Awards and Invested Shares.
Under the terms of the deferred bonus and co-investment matching plan, the actual number of shares each director would normally receive from the exercise of Matching Awards will depend on the extent to which the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied at the relevant time.
However, if and when the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, the Matching Awards will be released to participants in full.
Matching Awards granted in respect of 2001 LTIP Awards lapsed as the relevant performance criteria had not been achieved at the time the 2001 LTIP Awards were exercised on March 4, 2002.
2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 39 Remuneration report Share options Further details of the share options granted to directors under the P&O Princess Cruises Executive Share Option Plan are set out below.
Replacement options were granted to replace options over P&O deferred stock held by participants in P&O stock option schemes prior to the demerger which were exercised or released as part of the demerger arrangements.
The number of shares over which replacement options were granted was determined by a formula which took into account the exercise price of the original option.
The period in which a replacement option is exercisable is identical to that of the option it replaced.
The exercise of replacement options is not subject to performance conditions.
The other options shown above were granted as part of general grants of options to a large number of executives.
The exercise of such options by directors is conditional upon the growth in the Companys earnings per share over a period of at least three years from grant exceeding the growth in an appropriate recognised index of retail prices by at least 3% per annum.
If and when the proposed DLC transaction with Carnival Corporation is completed, all the above options will vest and become exercisable and any performance conditions will cease to apply.
Employee Benefit Trust As potential beneficiaries of the P&O Princess Cruises Employee Benefit Trust, Lord Sterling, Peter Ratcliffe and Nick Luff are deemed to be interested in ordinary shares of the Company held by the Trust.
At December 31, 2002, the Trust held 1,540,483 ordinary shares.
Value of shares The value of the Companys ordinary shares on December 31, 2001 was 400 pence and on December 31, 2002 was 431 pence.
The highest price reached by the shares during the year was 520.5 pence on November 5, 2002 and the lowest was 350 pence on July 24, 2002.
Other interests in shares Nick Luff also holds one 1 non-voting subscriber share.
In addition, 49,998 preference shares of 1 each were allotted but not issued to him on September 22, 2000.
These shares were allotted in connection with the formation of the Company in preparation for the demerger.
