Report on directors remuneration The Company does not have any executive directors FTSE All-Share Index.
A graph illustrating this and, as permitted under the Listing Rules, has not, relative performance over a five year period is shown therefore, established a remuneration committee.
Remuneration of non-executive directors is viewed as Share Price Total Return a decision of the Board, subject to any shareholder 170 approvals which may be necessary.
In effect therefore, 160 the Board as a whole fulfils the function of a 150 remuneration committee.
The Companys Articles of 140 Association state that the Board shall determine the 130 rate at which directors shall be paid, provided that the 120 aggregate of all such fees shall not exceed 150,000 110 per annum.
This does not include any sums paid to 100 directors outside of remuneration, e. g. expenses 90 payments.
The limit on the aggregate amount of 80 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Year directors fees paid is subject to the approval of Temple Bar Share Price Total Return shareholders by an ordinary resolution.
FTSE All Share Total Return Source: DATASTREAM The level of directors fees is determined with reference to a review of the remuneration paid to the directors of The fee level for directors is shown below.
There a range of other investment trusts, comparable in terms is no performance related fee.
None of the directors of both size and investment characteristics.
The Manager has a service contract with the Company.
of the Company provides such analysis to the Board as part of the management and secretarial services 2002 2001 provided to the Company.
No other external advice is Director taken in considering such fees.
It is expected that the Ronald Scott Brown 17,825 17,475 level of directors fees will continue to be assessed on Gary J Allen 12,500 9,188 this basis in forthcoming years.
John L Hudson 12,500 12,250 The directors consider that the most appropriate Richard W Jewson 12,500 7,501 measure of the Companys performance is its share John Reeve 12,500 12,250 price total return compared to the total return on the Field L J Walton 12,500 12,250 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts The directors are required by UK company law to of the Company and the Group and hence for taking prepare accounts for each financial year that give a true reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and fraud and other irregularities.
Group as at the end of the financial year and of the total The financial statements are published on the return of the Group for that year.
com website, which is a website The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies maintained by the Companys Investment Manager, have been used and applied consistently and Investec Investment Management Limited Investec.
reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates The maintenance and integrity of the website have been made in the preparation of the accounts for maintained by Investec or any of its subsidiaries is, so the year ended 31 December 2002.
The directors also far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of confirm that applicable accounting standards have Investec.
The work carried out by the auditors does been followed and that the accounts have been not involve consideration of the maintenance and prepared on a going concern basis.
integrity of this website and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have The directors are responsible for keeping proper occurred to the financial statements since they were accounting records that disclose with reasonable initially presented on the website.
Visitors to the accuracy at any time the financial position of the website need to be aware that legislation in the United Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. of the financial statements may differ from legislation They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets in their jurisdiction.
