64 THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee Long-term incentives The Remuneration Committee during the The Company believes that plans which year consisted entirely of non-executive facilitate share ownership by executive directors.
Mr. M. J. Cassidy is Chairman of directors and senior executives strengthen the Remuneration Committee.
The the links between individual and shareholder Committee provides advice and interests.
In order to provide a flexible and recommendations to the Board on overall competitive package, the Company operates remuneration policy and determines, on both an Executive Share Option Scheme and behalf of the Board, the remuneration a Restricted Share Plan.
The two plans have packages of individual executive directors.
been approved by shareholders in general On matters other than those concerning him, meeting and awards are made with regard the Chairman of the Company may be to the Combined Codes comments on invited to Committee meetings.
Awards will not be made Committee has access to professional under the plans concurrently.
advice from appropriate internal and external Under the Executive Share Option sources.
Scheme, market value options are granted The Committee is constituted in at the discretion of the Committee.
Options accordance with Schedule A and complied may become exercisable after three years with Schedule B of the Combined Code best or five years in certain cases, dependent practice provisions annexed to the Listing on performance targets being met.
Under Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
the Restricted Share Plan executives and directors are granted provisional interests Remuneration policy in securities of the Company that vest The Companys Executive Remuneration according to performance against targets.
Policy is tailored to support the strategic Both the Executive Share Option Scheme objective of delivering long-term value to and the Restricted Share Plan, require the its shareholders.
The individual elements of achievement of performance targets that remuneration are balanced to encourage the compare the growth in the Companys net creativity and innovation appropriate for a asset value against the Capital Growth Index large property company and to enable the of the Investment Property Databank.
The Company to recruit and retain key individuals Committee reviews these performance and align their rewards with the interests conditions on a regular basis to ensure that of shareholders.
they are both sufficiently stretching and that they remain relevant to the Companys Basic salary strategic objectives.
Basic salary levels for executive directors The Company has, in addition, a well are reviewed annually by the Committee, established Employee Share Scheme, taking into account individual responsibility, founded pursuant to the Finance Act 1978 experience and performance as well as the as amended, and a Sharesave Scheme that market-place for similar positions in extends the benefit of employee share comparable companies.
Directors are eligible to participate in both these schemes.
Annual cash bonus No long-term incentive award is The annual cash bonus is designed to pensionable.
encourage executive directors to achieve the highest level of annual corporate performance.
Awards are not contractual and are paid on the basis of the individuals contribution during the preceding year as well as individual and team performance.
No bonus awards are pensionable.
Remuneration Report Remuneration Report THE BRITISH LAND COMPANY PLC 65 Remuneration of non-executive directors Pensions The fees for non-executive directors are The Company sponsors a tax approved nonreviewed annually by the Board after contributory defined benefit pension scheme.
considering recommendations by the The scheme generally aims to provide executive directors.
Non-executive directors executives with at least 20 years service are not eligible for bonus, long-term to age 60 with a pension at that age of incentives or pension entitlements.
two-thirds of basic salary, less the single Non-executive directors may take British persons basic state pension.
Land shares in lieu of fees.
Directors emoluments Contracts of service Full details of directors emoluments are The only directors whose service contracts contained within Note 3 to the financial provide for notice periods in excess of statements on pages 74 to 76. one year are Messrs. N. S. J. Ritblat and G. C. Roberts.
Mr. Ritblat has voluntarily, This report was approved by the Board on without compensation, agreed to reduce his 23rd May 2002. rolling service contract from two years to one years notice expiring on or at any time after 29th May 2004.
Mr. Roberts service contract provided, on his appointment as a director of Michael Cassidy the company, for 12 months notice to expire Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on or any time after 1 January 2005.
This agreement is considered in the best interest of Shareholders.
Agreements with an initial term longer than one year are necessary to attract individuals of the necessary calibre.
Compensation payments on early termination The Company applies the principle of mitigation in the event of early termination of service contracts.
