Corporate governance This statement explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code the Code contained in the rules of The UK Listing Authority.
As stated in previous years reports, the Board, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee have fully considered the recommendations contained in the Code and endorse the general principles contained therein.
Except where described below, the Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
Board of Directors The Board is made up of six executive Directors, including the executive Chairman, together with four non-executive Directors, three of whom are classed as independent.
The Board meets five times a year to review the Groups financial and operational performance.
The meeting follows a formal agenda which includes matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
The Board also meets as and when necessary to discuss and approve specific issues.
The Board is also supplied on a monthly basis with detailed management accounts and a status report containing other financial and operational information about the Group, including an assessment of the business risks and opportunities.
The Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive positions are held by Mr C N Wright and Mr R N L Huntingford respectively and Mr C J C Levison non-executive Deputy Chairman is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
Directors have access to the advice and services of an experienced Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Remuneration and Nominations Committees The principal functions of the Remuneration Committee are to determine the Companys policy on the remuneration of senior executives and the specific remuneration packages of the executive Directors.
During the year under review, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell, all of whom are independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets regularly with the Executive Chairman and Group Chief Executive to review and agree the remuneration of the executive Directors and to approve remuneration policies overall for the Group.
The Committee met four times during the financial year.
The Nominations Committee considers appointments to the Board and makes recommendations in this respect to the Board.
During the year under review, the members of the Nominations Committee were Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr G Howard-Spink, Mr D B Murrell and Mr C N Wright.
Strategy and Investment Committee The Strategy and Investment Committee, established last year, sets the strategy for the Groups businesses and approves specific investment and divestment opportunities.
The members of the Strategy and Investment Committee during the year under review were Mr C N Wright, Mr R N L Huntingford, Mr N R A Butterfield, Lisa J Gordon, Mr C J C Levison, Sir George Martin, Mr G Howard-Spink and Mr D B Murrell.
Re-election The Code provides that the Directors each submit themselves for re-election every three years.
Although the Company does not comply with this provision, each of the Directors, with the exception of the Executive Chairman, submits himself for re-election on a regular basis in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
One third of the Directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
In view of the Executive Chairmans unique position and significant shareholding in the Company, it has not been deemed appropriate for him to submit for re-election in the past.
However, a resolution confirming Mr Wrights appointment as a Director was put to shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting, which was passed.
The Companys Articles of Association require any Director appointed by the Board to seek re-election at the next annual general meeting following their appointment.
Investor relations The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional and private investors.
One of the Directors, Lisa J Gordon, has specific responsibility for investor relations.
With the announcement of Ms Gordons intention to resign at the end of the year, the Board has appointed Harriet Finney as Investor Relations Manager to ensure that the Company maintains its relationship with both private and institutional investors.
Members of the Board meet regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts, with at least ten leading brokers now regularly publishing their research on the Company.
The Directors also welcome the opportunity to meet with private investors at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Audit Committee The Code provides that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three non-executive Directors.
The Audit Committee comprises only two Non Executive Directors, Mr C J C Levison Chairman and Mr G Howard-Spink, both of whom are independent.
Mr D B Murrell has not been a member of the Audit Committee, due to his past association with KPMG, the Groups auditors.
In view of the time which has elapsed since Mr Murrell ceased to be a partner at KPMG and of the Boards considered view of Mr Murrells independence of view and thought, the Board intends to ask Mr Murrell to join the Audit Committee.
The Committee meets twice per annum and more frequently if required to review the interim and full year results.
Meetings are attended by the external auditors.
70 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Corporate governance Statement of internal controls The Group, as required by the London Stock Exchange, now complies with the provisions of the Code, having established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance: Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Code the Turnbull Report published in September 1999 and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining an effective system of internal control that provides reasonable assurance that the Groups assets are safeguarded and that material financial errors and irregularities are prevented or detected with a minimum of delay.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks to business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss or misstatement of the financial statements.
The system of internal control is properly monitored by the risk management procedures in place and whilst keeping the position under review, the Directors do not believe that there is a requirement to introduce an internal audit function at the current time.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control which have been operating throughout the year under review and up to and including the date of this report include the following: An organisational structure with clearly defined areas of responsibility and delegation of authority: A senior member of staff has undertaken the role of Group risk manager to monitor and review internal controls, including risk management, and to report to the Directors on the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls: The operation of risk management process in which each business produces a database of key risks facing its objectives, the likelihood of each risk occurring, its impact on finances and image if it were to occur and the procedures in place to manage these risks to the desired level.
This information is filtered to produce a register of the key risks facing the Group and an assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of their controls is made.
These risks and the management thereof are reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Directors on a regular basis: High level controls exercised by the divisional management to give assurance that the detailed financial controls are operating satisfactorily.
The principal high level control is the review of monthly management accounts by the subsidiary managing directors and divisional chief executives and divisional finance directors: Monitoring processes which include detailed written monthly status reports, including an assessment of business risks, prepared by each divisional chief executive together with a programme of regular divisional and senior management meetings including detailed risk analysis and review, a programme of quarterly formal forecast meetings, the comparison of monthly results against budget and reforecasts, the preparation of a rolling forecast on a monthly basis and the supervisory roles of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director: The close day to day involvement of the divisional chief executives in all the businesses for which they are responsible.
In the case of companies acquired during the year, the internal controls in place in these companies have been reviewed against the Groups benchmarks of effective risk management and are being integrated into the Groups system of internal control.
In the case of associates and joint ventures, the Directors have been provided with sufficient evidence during the year to establish the effectiveness of the system of internal controls operation in these companies.
Going concern The Corporate Governance statement on going concern can be found in the Finance Directors review on page 11.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 71 Report of the board on remuneration As at the date of this report the members of the Remuneration Committee The Committee are Mr C J C Levison Chairman, Mr G HowardSpink and Mr D B Murrell.
Mr C N Wright and Mr R N L Huntingford do not sit on the Committee but do provide advice to the Committee on directors remuneration other than their own.
The Committee has taken advice from an independent consultancy company, New Bridge Street Consultants, on directors remuneration, particularly in respect of the proposed new long term incentive arrangements described below.
General policy The Committee, in forming its policy on remuneration, has given due consideration to the provisions of the Combined Code: to the needs of the Group to provide a competitive remuneration package to enable it to attract, retain and motivate executives of the calibre and experience required by the Group: and to the need cost effectively to incentivise managers to deliver long term shareholder value.
The Committee has taken note of and broadly supports the Hermes Principles and the July 2002 Report of the International Corporate Governance Network on Executive Remuneration.
Taking into consideration these and other recent publications on executive remuneration, the Committee considers that the Company should adopt new long term incentive plans for its senior executives, details of which are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 79.
The salaries of the executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee, which includes a review of the performance of the individual and, where appropriate, of the trading division for which he or she is responsible, and of the Group as a whole.
It is the aim of the Committee to reward Directors on a basis which is linked to a significant extent to the performance of the Group and to the business units for which they are specifically responsible, as well as on the broad principle that their remuneration should be competitive with the senior management of comparable companies operating in similar areas to the Group.
The policy regarding base salaries is to pay a fair and reasonable base salary but to incentivise managers to deliver long term shareholder value by out performing their peers in similar sized media groups, by a performance related short and long term bonus package which can potentially bring their total remuneration into the top quartile of this peer group.
Due to the diverse nature of the activities of the Group, the Remuneration Committee believes it is not appropriate to reward performance on the same basis for each executive Director.
Where share options are awarded by the Committee as part of a Directors remuneration package, they are awarded on an individual basis.
Such awards are, in every case, linked to performance.
In addition to basic salary, the remuneration packages of the executive Directors include participating in short and long term bonus arrangements which are described below.
The remuneration of non-executive Directors is determined by the Board of the Company and their appointment is reviewed on an annual basis.
Current arrangements The following table and notes are intended to summarise the value of all of the various elements of remuneration earned by each Director during the year.
Details of Directors share options are set out page 34.
72 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 Report of the board on remuneration Notes i Benefits comprise company cars, health care insurance and life assurance.
ii The accounting charge for the year of 160,700 2001: 200,000 in respect of an amount paid previously upon entering his new service agreement in 1999. iii The accumulated accounting provision of 434,000 as at 31 August 2001 was released during the year after the purchase of shares by the ESOP which fully hedge the Companys liability in respect of Mr Huntingfords long term incentives.
iv A provision of 145,000 2001: 107,000 was created during the year in respect of his long term incentive scheme, bringing the accumulated accounting provision to 333,000 2001: 187,000. v Includes an amount of 128,500 paid in compensation for loss of office.
vi Includes an amount of 43,000 used by the ESOP to purchase Company shares in accordance with deferred annual bonus arrangements.
vii Payment of long term incentive bonus in accordance with his service contract.
An accumulated accounting provision of 524,000 was made in previous years in respect of this amount.
viii An accumulated accounting provision exists in respect of his long term incentive scheme of 867,000 2001: 867,000. ix Sir George Martin also received remuneration of 35,000 and benefits of 15,000 from a joint venture company for services as Chairman.
xA one off bonus paid in recognition of Sir George Martins long term service and generation of revenue for the Group.
Short term bonus arrangements Executive Directors who served during the year under review participate in short term bonus arrangements which are performance related, and either have been individually tailored to incentivise each Director to enhance the profitability of the division for which they are responsible, or are based on the profitability of the Group as a whole.
The majority are based on either the Group achieving specific earnings per share targets or on a particular division achieving profits in excess of a pre-determined base.
All pre-set profit and earnings per share targets are approved by the Committee.
Part of certain Directors annual bonuses and annual deferred bonuses may be paid in restricted shares.
This has the effect of tying in the Director for a minimum three year period and also aligning the interest of the Directors with those of the shareholders.
No benefits under any of the short term bonus arrangements are pensionable.
Details of the individual arrangements are given below.
C N Wright For the year under review, an annual bonus based on earnings per share above a pre-determined base.
For the current year, a bonus based upon the results of the Group achieving pre-set targets together with a discretionary performance related bonus.
There is an overall cap of 100% of basic salary and the bonus may at the Executives option be paid in restricted shares.
R N L Huntingford For the year under review, an annual bonus based on earnings per share above pre-set levels.
For the current year, a bonus based upon the results of the Group achieving pre-set targets.
There is an overall cap of 100% of basic salary.
N R A Butterfield For the year under review, an annual bonus based on earnings per share above pre-set levels.
Lisa J Gordon For the year under review and the current year, there was no contractual entitlement to an annual bonus.
The Committee awarded a discretionary bonus in respect of the year under review based on both Ms Gordons performance and that of the Group.
P A Lassman An annual bonus based on the combined pre-tax profits of the Lasgo Chrysalis Limited and the Books division providing they exceed a pre-determined base.
M J Pilsworth For the year under review, an annual bonus of 35,000 for achieving a pre-determined level of pre-tax profits of the TV resigned 2nd May 2002 Group together with 5% of any pre-tax profits exceeding the pre-determined level.
There was an overall cap of 100% of basic salary.
A deferred annual bonus paid in restricted shares based on pre-tax profits of the TV Group attaining pre-set targets.
P S Riley An annual bonus based on the profits of the Radio division achieving pre-set targets together with an annual bonus that is based upon the successful award of any analogue or digital radio licence.
Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002 73 Report of the board on remuneration Long term incentive schemes Certain Directors participate in the Chrysalis 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and details of their participation can be seen in the table contained on page 34 of the Directors Report.
The exercise of all options are subject to challenging performance criteria set by the Committee.
As previously reported, the Committee has concluded that, due to the diverse nature of the Groups businesses, it is best to incentivise executive Directors long term by individual schemes designed to maximise the profitability or capital value of the Group or the division for which they are responsible and thus align the interests of the Directors and the shareholders.
The Committee is sensitive to the recommendation contained in the Code relating to the granting of options and or benefits under long term incentive arrangements in phased awards rather than in large blocks.
In the case of Mr R N L Huntingford, Mr N R A Butterfield and Mr C N Wright the Committee believed that it was appropriate in the past to grant options and benefits under a long term incentive scheme in blocks in view of the quantum of the awards and the performance criteria.
The proposed new long term incentive arrangements will enable the Committee to grant future awards on an annual basis thereby complying with current remuneration thinking.
These arrangements will initially apply to senior executives with Group responsibilities and, to reflect the importance of the Radio business to the Group, to certain senior executives of the Radio division.
Mr C N Wright, Mr R N L Huntingford, Mr P A Lassman, Mr M J Pilsworth, Mr N R A Butterfield, Lisa J Gordon and Mr P S Riley participate, or participated during the year under review, in long term incentive plans.
No benefits under any of the long term incentive plans are pensionable.
Details of the arrangements are given below: Mr C N Wright Mr Wright was granted options as disclosed in the table contained on page 34 of the Directors report.
These options are subject to performance criteria based on the achievement of pre-agreed levels of Total Shareholder Return TSR.
TSR is the aggregate of the increase or decrease in the market value of a 2p Ordinary Share, during the period, together with the value arising from the notional reinvestment of dividends declared during the period in further Chrysalis shares.
The resultant monetary value is then expressed as an inflation adjusted compound annual rate of growth over the market value of an ordinary share at the start of the period.
Mr R N L Huntingford Mr Huntingford was granted options as disclosed in the table contained on page 34 of the Directors Report.
Mr Huntingford is also entitled to a super performance bonus equal to the growth in value of between 125,000 and 500,000 Chrysalis Ordinary Shares of 2p each depending on performance targets.
The total bonus payable under the super performance bonus is capped at 1.25million.
Both the exercise of the share options and the payment of the super performance bonus are subject to performance criteria based on TSR.
The share options are only exercisable on a graduating scale, enabling 41.66% of the options to be exercisable if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5% rising to 100% of the options if TSR is over 13%.
The super performance bonus is payable on a graduating scale enabling 25% of the bonus to be paid if TSR is between 14% and 15% and 100% of the bonus to be payable if TSR is 20% or over.
The ESOP purchased 500,000 of the Groups shares at 152 pence per share to mitigate the potential liability to the Group in respect of Mr Huntingfords super performance bonus.
Mr N R A Butterfield Mr Butterfield was granted options as disclosed in the table contained on page 34 of the Directors Report.
The exercise of these options was originally subject to performance criteria based on earnings per share.
In 2000 the Committee determined to set new performance criteria based on TSR, pursuant to which the options are only exercisable on a graduating scale enabling 25% of the total to be exercised if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5% rising to 100% if TSR is 20% or more.
Lisa J Gordon Lisa J Gordon was granted options over 100,000 Chrysalis Ordinary Shares of 2p each in accordance with the rules of the Chrysalis 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme as shown on page 34 of the Directors Report.
The options are only exercisable on a graduating scale enabling 25% of the options to be exercisable if TSR is between 7.5% and 8.5%, rising to 100% if TSR is 20% or more.
Lisa J Gordon is also the only participant in a scheme established following her change of role to Director of Corporate Affairs.
She is entitled to a bonus based on the increase in the price of the Chrysalis ordinary share of 2p each over an agreed base price over a 2 year period ending 10th December 2003.
The payment of the bonus is subject to performance criteria based on TSR and is capped at 100,000.
As stated earlier, Lisa J Gordon has stated her intention to resign as a Director of the Company on 31st December 2002.
In accordance with the rules of the Chrysalis 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, the Remuneration Committee has determined that she will be allowed twelve months from her date of resignation to exercise her options, which will remain subject to the performance criteria.
Mr P A Lassman Mr Lassman was entitled to a bonus equivalent to 20% of his annual salary or pro rata part thereof for each 10% growth or pro rata part thereof in the combined reported profits of the Books Division and Lasgo Chrysalis Limited, adjusted to reflect the cost of any acquisitions, for the year to 31st August 2002 over the profits for the year ended 31st August 1999, this bonus to be capped at 150% of his salary for the year to 31st August 2002.
Long term incentive arrangements for Mr Lassman going forward are currently being discussed.
74 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2002
