remuneration report The Remuneration Committee presents its Remuneration Report, which was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 November 2002.
The Board of Directors has delegated In formulating the Policy for the period Annual Bonus Plan responsibility for remuneration policy to ending 30 September 2003, the All the executive directors are eligible to the Remuneration Committee, which is Remuneration Committee has considered participate in an annual bonus plan, primarily responsible for formulating and the following principles: typically based on the achievement of recommending to the Board the short term performance targets which are framework for executive remuneration andAll remuneration arrangements will be individually relevant for each executive the specific remuneration packages for the designed to support the Groups director, and which include measures of executive directors.
In addition, the business strategy in line with standards corporate performance as well as the Remuneration Committee grants options of best practice: achievement of personal targets.
The in terms of, and subject to the rules of theLevels of total reward will be corporate element is based on target Share Option Scheme 2000.
The competitive within the relevant market earnings per share and generation of cash Remuneration Committee members for and location: and for the whole Group.
Bonuses are set on the period under review were as follows:Incentive schemes will reward the an individual basis and will not normally achievement of predetermined exceed 40% of the total remuneration Rory Scott Chairman company targets and individual package, excluding share options.
Dorian Wharton-Hood performance against specific key performance indicators.
Share Option Scheme As at 1 October 2002 Robert Mansfield The terms of reference of the was appointed as an additional member of The policy relating to each component of Remuneration Committee include the the Remuneration Committee.
All the remuneration is summarised below: recommendation of options to be granted members of the Remuneration Committee under the Share Option Scheme 2000 for are independent non-executive directors.
Base Salary all employees, including the executive The base salaries of the executive directors.
The Share Option Scheme 2000 The Committee met four times during the directors are subject to annual review and is the only scheme that the Company has period under review, and has reviewed are set with reference to external market which is open for grant of new options.
and considered external surveys on data, relating to similar companies based remuneration packages within comparable in South Africa and the UK and taking into Prior to July 2000, the Dimension Data companies.
account the primary location of each Share Incentive Scheme 1987 was in director.
Consideration is given to the size, operation and all options granted until that Statement of Policy on Directors market sector, business complexity and date were granted in terms of the 1987 Remuneration international reach of the comparator scheme and continue to be governed by The Committee aims to provide companies.
Individual performance and the rules of that scheme.
All options remuneration packages that meet the increased responsibilities following on granted after July 2000 have been and will needs of a global IT services business.
from the restructuring of the management be granted in terms of the 2000 scheme.
Such a business depends on the of the Group are also taken into Such grants take place at the sole attraction, retention and motivation of high consideration.
discretion of the Remuneration Committee calibre executives who can be entrusted and are approved by the Directors of with growing and enhancing the value of Dimension Data Holdings plc.
granted at market price as at the date of grant.
All options granted to executive ANNUAL REPORT 2002 43 directors are subject to stringent Service Contracts and External None of the resignations will trigger performance conditions, and, in most Appointments payments for compensation for loss of cases, options for employees are also The Companys policy for the period office.
granted subject to performance conditions.
commencing 1 October 2002 is for all In order to entitle the employee to take up service contracts with executive directors All the non-executive directors operate the shares in question, the option must be to contain notice periods of three months, under letters of appointment, with no exercised before the option lapses, ten and that no provisions for early notice period.
years after the date of grant.
termination involve payments that would amount to compensation in excess of Directors Emoluments and In the year ending 30 September 2002, 12 months salary plus on-target bonus.
Compensation in the Relevant Financial 61.7 million options were granted to Year employees the majority of which will Executive directors are not permitted to Previously these details were provided in lapse post year end due to the nonretain fees paid to them in relation to the Notes to the annual financial attainment of performance targets at an external appointments.
To bring the format of this average price of 87 pence, and, as has report into line with the Directors been previously stated, no options were For the year ending 30 September 2002, Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 granted to executive directors.
with the exception of Raul Fernandez, these are now disclosed below.
There is Peter Harrison and Ron Cattell, all also separate disclosure in relation to Currently 5,500 employees participate in executive directors had services contracts Pensions.
with Dimension Data Holdings plc.
Pensions and Other Benefits Raul Fernandez resigned effective 1 Pensions and other benefits such as life October 2002 has a contract with insurance for executive directors reflect Dimension Data Holdings plc and the practice in the countries in which they Proxicom Inc. are primarily resident.
Peter Harrison resigned effective 1 In accordance with the Articles of October 2002 had a fixed term contract Association of the Company, the with Chernikeeff Networks Ltd now Committee ensures that the ordinary Dimension Data Network Services Ltd remuneration of the Directors salaries, dated 9 July 1999 which expired 30 April bonuses and other benefits, excluding 2002. share options does not exceed 10,000,000 per annum, unless otherwise Ronald Cattell resigned effective 1 decided by the shareholders.
A performance bonus of US$54,000 in respect of Internet Solutions 2001 financial year is included in this amount.
No other performance bonuses were paid to Directors in the 2002 financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 45 Details of Directors Share Options in the Relevant Financial Year Previously these details were provided in the Notes to the annual financial statements.
Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 these are now to be disclosed in the Remuneration Report.
For share price performance see Six-Year Review on page 54. RJ Cattell has an unexercised balance of 3,000,000 Datacraft Asia Ltd share options and RC Mansfield has an unexercised balance of 120,000 Datacraft Asia Ltd share options.
For share price performance see Six-Year Review on page 54.
ANNUAL REPORT 2002 47 Benefits In addition to the salary set out above, each director is entitled to benefits as set out in the table below: Director Provident Fund Executive Life cover Medical Aid Provident at 4 times Fund basic salary J Ord xxxx D Ackerman x x x R Came x x x x P Hird x x x S Joubert x x x P Quarmby x x x E Reinecke x x M Rutherford xxxx D Smyth x x x R Taylor x x x B Watson xxxx R Fernandez x x x P Harrison x x D Frankel x R Scott x x D Wharton-Hood, R Mansfield and G Waddell receive none of the above benefits.
R Cattell does not receive any of the above from Dimension Data, but does receive all the above from Datacraft Asia.
USA Statutory 401K Retirement Savings Program 2x base salary, capped at US$500,000 Provident Fund As detailed above, certain directors are members of the Dimension Data Group Provident Fund, an approved, privately administered money purchase Provident Fund.
The object of the fund is to provide benefits for all employees or their dependants, upon the retirement of the employee on account of age, death or ill health.
The Company contributes between 5% and 20% of the members monthly salary.
The Company also makes contributions on behalf of certain directors to the Dimension Data Executive Provident Fund.
48 DIMENSION DATA REMUNERATION REPORT Directors Interests Details of the Directors beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings in the Company are shown below.
These shareholdings remain the same as at 20 November 2002.
Other than the shareholdings stated above, the Directors hold no interests in other Group companies.
Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors annually.
Consideration is given to fees payable to nonexecutive directors by comparable companies.
Additional fees are paid to committee members and chairmen of Board committees to take account of the additional work involved.
Non-executive directors are no longer eligible to participate in the Companys share option scheme.
No director is involved in setting his own remuneration.
