Annual Report & Accounts Corporate governance Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related Annual General Meeting proxy votes are announced by the papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days chairman.
Separate resolutions are proposed at In the annual and interim reports, Annual General the Annual General Meeting on each substantive issue.
Meeting statement, results presentations and in city Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting are announcements generally, the Company seeks to present entitled to ask questions and to meet with directors after an accurate, objective and balanced view in a style and formal proceedings have ended.
The chairmen of the format which is appropriate for the intended audience.
In board, audit, remuneration and nomination committees addition to websites maintained by its individual are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer businesses, the Company has a website on which it questions together with their fellow directors.
At the presents information about the Group.
Remuneration report The Company has complied throughout the year under participation in long-term incentive plans and other review with the Combined Code provisions concerning benefits.
The committee ordinarily reviews directors directors remuneration and this report is prepared in salaries annually, effective from 1st January, taking into accordance with the requirements of the Directors account market rates and the performance of the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
In accordance individual and of the Company.
Policies for benefits which with the Regulations, resolution 8 invites the members to include company cars and private health insurance are receive and adopt the remuneration report for the financial reviewed regularly and comparisons with other companies year ended 31st December 2002. are made.
Reports and published data from consultants are also taken into consideration in setting salary and Remuneration committee benefits packages.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Vic Cocker and The remuneration committee received advice from met four times during 2002.
Membership comprises all Whitehead Mann and on this basis established a salary independent non-executive directors of the Company.
The and bonus package for the executive directors which chief executive officer is not a member of the committee would represent a competitive level taking into account but may attend its meetings by invitation.
None of the the experience of the executive directors, strategic and executive directors were present at meetings of the operational objectives.
Salaries based at a level sufficient committee during consideration of their own remuneration.
to attract and retain directors needed to run the Company The committee has written terms of reference and it is successfully and allow for personal progression.
responsible for ensuring that remuneration of executive directors are reasonable and fair in comparison with other Remuneration in 2002 companies of broadly similar size and range of activities.
The individual elements of remuneration of each director During 2002, advice was provided to the remuneration are set out in the table overleaf.
committee by Whitehead Mann in respect of cash Annual bonus compensation levels of executive directors.
In addition, Executive directors participate in a performance-related Watson Wyatt provided pensions advice to the committee annual bonus scheme.
Bonuses are payable based on and Clifford Chance provided advice to the committee on performance measured against three business objectives, the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Hewitt Bacon & each contributing to a maximum bonus of 60% of salary.
Woodrow assisted with the Companys total shareholder These objectives comprise earnings growth for underlying return TSR performance measure and have been businesses 25% : earnings targets for acquired appointed to advise on remuneration policy and practice.
businesses 15% and progress on a range of strategic Remuneration policy parameters 20%.
Based on the three business The remuneration committee determines the contracts of objectives, a bonus award of 45% of salary is payable to service and emoluments of executive directors.
Executive executive directors in respect of 2002.
Details of annual directors emoluments comprise annual salary, a bonuses paid in respect of 2002 are set out in the table discretionary annual bonus, personal pension plans, overleaf.
19 FOODSERVICE GROUP Remuneration report Salary in lieu of pension above earnBenefits Annual 2002 2001 Salary Fees ings cap in-kind bonus Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 C J Farrow 75 75 75 W B McGrath 300 45 21 135 501 365 S Rennie 224 2 92 318 247 S M Smith 178 14 1 72 265 143 V Cocker 25 25 25 A J Wilson 25 25 132 B A Nielsen resigned January 2003 25 25 19 S L Howard retired May 2001 9 A Catanzano resigned March 2001 55 Total 702 150 59 24 299 1,234 1,070 The salary figures for S Rennie and S M Smith include cash allowance in place of company car and fuel.
Benefits in-kind comprise car, fuel, private health care and life assurance.
There were no taxable expenses in 2001 & 2002 for any director.
Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP performance has been measured by Hewitt Bacon The LTIP consists of a right to acquire shares at a nominal & Woodrow.
price of 1 which will be exercisable after a period of three Secondly, none of the shares can be acquired unless years at the earliest, based on the achievement of the remuneration committee determines that there has performance criteria set out further below.
been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial Awards are made to senior management up to a performance of the Company during the performance maximum annual value of 100% of salary.
Participants in the LTIP may not participate in balance between short-term and long-term incentive option grants under the Aga Foodservice Group 1994 arrangements and also aligns the long-term interests of Senior Executive Share Option Scheme.
The LTIP awards executive directors and shareholders.
made to executive directors are set out opposite.
The percentage of shares awarded that the participant Share options will actually be able to acquire will depend on two No share options were granted to executive directors performance criteria.
Firstly, on a comparison of the under the 1994 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme Companys TSR with the TSR of companies in the during 2001 or 2002 as awards have been made to engineeringgeneral sub sector of the FTSE All Share executive directors under the LTIP.
If the Companys TSR places it in the top 25% commitment made to shareholders when they approved upper quartile of the comparator companies, the the introduction of the LTIP.
participant can acquire all the shares: if the Companys The Company has senior executive and savings-related TSR is at the midpoint, 25% of the shares can be share option schemes, which it sees as a means of acquired: if the Companys TSR is below midpoint, none encouraging employees closer involvement in the success of the shares can be acquired.
There is a sliding scale on a straight-line basis if the Companys TSR is between upper quartile position and the midpoint.
The TSR performance measure has been applied on the basis of best practice and advice provided by external consultants.
The comparator group has been chosen because a substantial proportion of the Companys turnover is derived from engineering related activities.
The committee is continuously reviewing the position in the light of the Companys strategic acquisition policy.
The TSR 20 Annual Report & Accounts Remuneration report of the Group.
Options granted under the 1994 Senior The interests of directors at the beginning and end of the Executive Share Option Scheme are only exercisable if the 2002 financial year in the currently operating share option Companys earnings per share, calculated on the basis schemes were as stated in the table below.
suggested by the Institute of Investment Management and Pensions Research, have exceeded by at least 2% per annum the William McGrath, Stephen Rennie and Shaun Smith are increase in the UKs retail price index over a period of members of a defined benefit pension scheme.
For three years beginning not earlier than the Companys last members not subject to the statutory earnings cap this financial year before the date of an option grant.
The provides a pension of two-thirds of final pensionable options concerned are ordinarily exercisable in the periods remuneration on retirement at normal retirement age with set out below.
20 or more years of pensionable service.
The pensions of The mid-market price of Aga Foodservice Group plc William McGrath and Shaun Smith are subject to the ordinary shares at the beginning and end of the year was statutory earnings cap and they receive additional 216p and 205p respectively.
During the year the market remuneration as detailed in the table on page 20. price of the shares ranged between 190p and 305.5p.
Long-Term Options under the Incentive Plan Options under the 1994 Senior Savings Related Share approved in 1999.
The market price at date of exercise was 222.5 pence per share.
