Report on Remuneration This report of the Board to shareholders the Group and of the individual Director, consistent with the operating performance on Directors remuneration is also designed together with his experience in the particular targets of the division in which they are to satisfy the current disclosure requirements job.
The Committee also receives relevant employed.
Awards made under the Plan will including Directors pension entitlements of information appertaining to remuneration normally lapse on termination of employment.
the UK Listing Authority and to explain how of other senior executives and the pay the Company has applied those parts of the of employees elsewhere in the Group and, The shares to be used for the Plan will be Combined Code the Code which relate where appropriate, communicates its existing ordinary shares of the Company to the Directors remuneration.
views on the levels of such remuneration purchased on the open market and held by to the Group Chief Executive.
During its the trustee of The David S. Smith Group a Composition of the Remuneration deliberations, the Committee has regard General Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
Committee the Committee to salary levels in other countries where this The trustee of the Trust is a wholly-owned The Committee consists entirely of is relevant for any non-UK senior executive.
subsidiary of the Company incorporated in independent non-Executive Directors and Jersey, the Directors of which are is assisted in its duties by the Group Chief The table of remuneration of the Directors independent of the Group.
Executive and the Company Secretary.
For the financial year ended 30 April 2002, The members of the Committee have no d Annual bonus the Executive Directors will not receive a personal financial interest, other than as The Executive Directors and other senior Bonus Award Option under the Plan as the shareholders of the Company, in the matters executives participate in annual bonus relevant earnings per share threshold was to be decided by the Committee, no potential schemes which have been approved by the not achieved.
conflicts of interest arising from crossCommittee.
The scheme applicable to the directorships and no day-to-day involvement Executive Directors of the Company is f Share option schemes in running the business.
Members of the the same as in the previous year with the At the 1999 Annual General Meeting, Committee are shown on page 30. maximum permitted value of the bonus shareholders adopted a new Executive Share set at 30% of basic salary at 31 July 2002 Option Scheme and a new International b Compliance Qualifying Salary in respect of the Sharesave Scheme.
The grant of options The Board, in conjunction with the financial year 2001 02 Annual Bonus.
under the Executive Share Option Scheme Committee, has taken the necessary steps The Executive Directors receive an Annual is shown on page 61. to ensure that the Company complies with Bonus if the earnings per share threshold the provisions of the Code which relate to determined by the Committee is met.
The Executive Share Option Scheme is only Directors remuneration, except that the The outcome of the results for the financial available to Executive Directors and other Company has not complied with the Code year 2001 02 mean that no Annual Bonus senior executives participating in the Plan.
in relation to the period of notice in Executive is payable in respect of the financial year The Committee grants approved and Directors Service Contracts which is ended 30 April 2002 2001 11.33%.
unapproved options to UK and overseas commented on under paragraph h of this executives on a phased basis and individuals Report.
Certain disclosures in this Report fall The Annual Bonus is not contractual and will not normally receive a grant worth more within the scope of matters for review by awards under the scheme are not eligible than one times their salary in any year.
for inclusion in the calculation of the participating Executive Directors pension The exercise of any options granted under c Scope and policy on remuneration scheme benefits.
the previous Executive Share Option Scheme The Committee, which operates under after 27 April 1996 and under the new written terms of reference agreed by the e Long Term Incentive Plan 1995 Scheme are subject to the achievement of a Board, is responsible for determining the A Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan was performance target.
The chosen target in the remuneration of the Executive Directors approved by shareholders at the Annual previous Scheme was that earnings per share in order to attract, motivate and retain General Meeting in 1995.
Its participants are of the Company increase over a period of high calibre executives.
the Executive Directors and other selected three consecutive financial years, which may senior executives.
include the financial year in which the option The Committee receives regular advice from is granted, by a total of at least 7.5% above external independent consultants to ensure Under the Plan, as modified in 1997, a the increase in the UK Retail Prices Index for that remuneration is in line with the market.
participating executive is eligible to receive that period.
The target for the new Scheme an award of shares in the Company, equal is that the growth of the Companys The Executive Directors overall remuneration in value to the participants Annual Bonus, normalised earnings per share must match packages are reviewed annually on 1 August.
which normally vest with the participant on or exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices The basic salary for each Executive Director the third anniversary of the award Bonus Index plus an average of 3% per annum is targeted at the rates of salary for similar Award Option.
As far as practicable the over a period of at least three years.
If the jobs in a selected group of comparable programme, comprising an Annual Bonus condition is not satisfied after the initial companies.
The Committee, when and the modified Plan, has been extended three year period, it may still be satisfied in determining the level of salary, also takes to divisional executives.
However, their bonus subsequent years.
However, if it is not into account the relative performance of schemes are based on differing criteria satisfied within six years of the grant, the 33 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 Report on Remuneration continued option under the new Scheme lapses.
In the Pensions in payment are increased annually appointed in future will not be granted case of each option grant, the base financial in line with the increase in the UK Retail Prices rolling service contracts longer than one year year for the purposes of measuring earnings Index, subject to a maximum guaranteed although on appointment their initial term per share performance will be the financial increase of 5% each year with the possibility may be longer.
The other two Executive year prior to the grant date.
Normally, no part of further discretionary increases.
There is no Directors have service contracts which may of the option may be exercised unless the allowance in the transfer value calculation be terminated by the Company giving two performance target has been achieved.
basis for such discretionary increases or other years notice.
However, Mr Williams service discretionary benefits.
contract will terminate on 3 September 2002 The interests of the Directors in the share when he will retire.
capital of the Company and details of options All members, including Executive Directors, granted under the terms of the Executive contribute to the Approved Scheme at the i Policy on external appointments Share Option Scheme, but not yet exercised, rate of 6% of their pensionable pay, subject Executive Directors are allowed to accept are shown on page 37. to a maximum, for those affected, of 15% external appointments as a non-Executive of the earnings cap.
Director of up to two other companies g Pensions provided that these are not with competing The Executive Directors participate in a Mr E C Smith reached normal pensionable companies and are not likely to lead to funded contributory defined benefit pension age on 16 October 2001 and is therefore conflicts of interest.
Executive Directors are scheme with death in service cover.
Subject not included in the table below.
Mr Smiths normally allowed to retain the fees paid.
to the variations mentioned below, the retirement benefits were a tax-free cash Details of individual Directors external Group provides pension benefits for sum of 330,000 plus a residual pension appointments are shown on page 30.
Executive Directors on retirement at their of 117,000 per annum, which increases normal pension age of 60 based on an at a guaranteed 5% per annum, subject j Fees for non-Executive Directors accrual rate of one thirtieth with reference to Inland Revenue limits.
The remuneration for non-Executive Directors to basic salary less a deduction equal to consists of annual fees for their services as the basic State pension.
This is subject to Set out below and in accordance with members of the Board and, where relevant, a maximum pension of two-thirds of their the disclosure requirements of the Financial for their work on selected committees.
Services Authority are the total accrued Non-Executive Directors, other than the pension entitlements as at the financial Chairman, do not have contracts of service As far as possible, the benefit is provided year end prospectively payable from normal but have letters of appointment for a term through the Inland Revenue Approved pension age in respect of the Approved of three years whereupon they are normally Group Pension Scheme, in which other Scheme, and for the non tax approved renewed but for no more than three terms in employees of the Group participate, but for unfunded arrangement, for each of the aggregate.
Their remuneration is determined those Executive Directors who joined after Executive Directors of the Company.
by the Board on the advice of external 31 May 1989 and whose benefits are independent consultants and is subject to therefore subject to the Inland Revenue Members have the option of paying a maximum aggregate level agreed by earnings cap, the Company has given Additional Voluntary Contributions.
Non-Executive Directors do a promise to provide the balance through the contributions nor the resulting benefits not participate in, or vote on, any discussion a non tax approved unfunded arrangement.
are included in the table below.
relating to their own remuneration.
The accumulated unfunded provision at 30 April 2002 is 3.4m 2001 2.8m, h Service contracts and compensation Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for being 2.3m for Mr Williams, 0.9m for The service contract for Mr Thorne may be pension scheme membership and do not Mr Buttfield and 0.2m for Mr Thorne.
terminated by 12 months notice by the participate in any of the Groups bonus, share Company.
This is in line with the statement option or other incentive arrangements.
Life cover of four times basic salary is made last year that Executive Directors provided under the Approved Scheme on death in service in addition to spouses Additional pension pensions of two-thirds of the members earned prospective pensions plus dependants Employee Accrued Accrued excluding benefits.
For those Executive Directors whose contributions entitlement entitlement inflation benefits are restricted by the earnings cap, paid during Complete 30 April 28 April during the year years of 2002 2001 the year optional additional life cover is available.
Age 000 service 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa Spouses pensions on death after retirement are two-thirds of the members pensions, A D Thorne 51 14 1 14 310 before any reduction for early retirement D F Buttfield 55 14 10 85 70 14 or commutation of pension for cash.
J P Williams 60 14 11 162 142 17 34 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2002 k Remuneration of the Directors The Annual Bonus is calculated on the Qualifying Salary defined in paragraph d on page 33 for which there has been no allocation in 2002.
The term Benefits includes the provision of a car, fuel and private medical insurance.
In the case of the Chairman, the Benefits substantially reflect the cost of his private office.
Salary Annual Deferred 2002 2001 Fee bonus bonus Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman A P Hichens 144 26 170 135 Chief Executive A D Thorne 312 23 335 124 Executive Directors D F Buttfield 235 18 253 289 J P Williams 430 76 506 569 Non-Executive Directors R G Beeston 31 31 12 P M Johnson 38 38 37 R E C Marton 31 31 30 D R Piette 37 37 36 Past Directors 1 O A Stratton 28 28 262 2 E C Smith 76 5 81 276 1 Mr O A Stratton became a non-Executive Director on 1 May 2001 and resigned as a Director on 5 September 2001.
In addition to the remuneration disclosed above Mr Stratton was paid consultancy fees of 32,639 after 5 September 2001.
2 Mr E C Smith resigned as a Director of the Company on 5 September 2001, but continued to be employed by the Company until 16 October 2001 and received 25,432 in salary and 2,099 in benefits in this period.
On behalf of the Board Bob Beeston Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 June 2002 35 35 DS S DS Sm miith Pl th Plc c Annual Report 2002
