easyJet plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 Report of the Remuneration Committee The board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility to: make recommendations to the board in respect of the remuneration policy for executive directors and the groups other senior management: approve any new service agreement entered into between the group and any executive director: and make recommendations to the board on the implementation and overview of the bonus and share option programme.
The groups policy for senior executive remuneration is to reward its executives competitively having regard to the comparative market place in order to ensure that they are properly motivated to perform in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
The remuneration of the companys non-executive directors is determined by the board as a whole with nonexecutive directors exempting themselves from voting as appropriate.
The remuneration for executive directors comprises a combination of basic salary, annual bonus, pension contributions and participation in share option and gift schemes.
Basic salary is set relative to market rates based on the respective directors experience and complexity of his her duties.
The group pays into defined contribution pension schemes for executive directors at 7.0 per cent of their base salaries.
Full details of the executive directors remuneration are set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
The group also provides for the directors to participate in share option and gift schemes, the key details of which are provided in note 17 to the financial statements.
Although options have been granted in one block to directors of the company, their vesting, except those granted to Amir Eilon, is phased.
All options granted since December 2000 have been subject to performance criteria.
During the year, the group acquired the business of Go Fly.
In recognition that retaining key management will be important during the integration of the two businesses and to reward a fast and effective integration, a combination plan has been offered to the directors and 38 of the senior employees.
The combination plan involves the award of ordinary shares in three equal tranches, where each tranche is equal to one times base salary, with each tranche being triggered by the achievement of three key milestones: a single brand, a single AOC licence and complete integration.
