Remuneration Report Forth Ports PLC 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Remuneration Report Members of the Remuneration Committee is based on the Pensions Cap and Directors The members of the Remuneration Committee subject to this restriction receive a separate during the year were: supplement to their salary determined by the Remuneration Committee.
C. D. Collins Non-executive Chairman H. M. Thompson Non-executive Director Directors Service Contracts until May 2002 The Executive Directors with the exception of Mr. G. H. Webster Non-executive Director P. D. Glading who has a one year rolling contract W. Harkness Non-executive Director each had two year rolling contracts.
In 2002, the Executive Directors agreed to reduce their two year The Personnel Director, A. C. Morrison, acts as rolling contracts to one year rolling contracts except Secretary to the Committee.
The Remuneration where there is a takeover or merger in which case Committee met on four occasions during the year the notice period would be two years.
Any new and received advice from: directors will be appointed on the basis of a one year rolling contract, unless there are exceptional Hay Group circumstances.
The termination payment is based C. G. Hammond Chief Executive on the existing salary and benefits including A. C. Morrison Personnel Director enhanced pension benefits.
Hay Group was appointed by the Remuneration Non-executive Directors are normally appointed Committee and gave advice on short-term and for a three year term with a maximum of three long-term incentives, appropriate comparator periods of three years.
The Company also applies companies, levels of executive compensation an age limit of seventy years of age for Nonand market trends.
No termination payments are applicable to Non-executive Directors.
The Chief Executive and the Personnel Director take no part in determining their Annual Bonus Scheme own remuneration.
The annual performance bonus scheme is based on challenging earnings per share growth targets, The Non-executive Directors fees are determined together with individual targets.
The targets are by the Executive Directors on advice from external reviewed annually with a trigger point for growth consultants, Adams Associates.
which yields a payment of 10% of salary rising to a maximum of 50% if the stretch target for growth Remuneration Policy in earnings per share is achieved.
The bonus is The Companys policy on remuneration is to attract, paid in cash each year if an award is triggered.
retain and incentivise the best staff recognising The individual performance targets for each that they are key to the ongoing success of the Director and percentage of bonus achievable business.
In accordance with this policy, the vary but the total bonus achievable, combining overall packages awarded to Directors are individual and corporate performance, is the intended to be competitive and comprise a mix of same for each Director.
performance related and basic remuneration taking into account the goals of corporate governance.
In the event of a maximum performance related annual bonus award, the composition of Executive The Company operates a performance bonus Directors remuneration, excluding the Long Term scheme whereby the Executive Directors are entitled Incentive Plan LTIP, is as follows: to receive a cash bonus based partly on the annual percentage growth in underlying earnings per share Basic 67% and partly on individual performance targets.
Maximum performance related annual bonus 33% The scheme is reviewed and agreed by the Remuneration Committee annually.
A Long Term Long Term Incentive Plan Incentive Plan is also incorporated, details of which The Board intends to continue to award shares are set out below.
to all eligible Executive Directors under the LTIP which was approved at the Annual General The Board continued the policy that only base Meeting in May 2002.
The shares awarded will salary was used for pension purposes.
In the case vest with the Director after a period of three years of new Directors, the salary for pension purposes and will be dependent on the Total Shareholder Remuneration Report Forth Ports PLC 28 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 Return TSR achieved by the Company over proportionally to total vestment if the Company that period compared to the TSR achieved by a achieves the upper quartile or above.
comparator group of forty nine companies in the FTSE 250-350 index.
The proportion of shares Shares conditionally awarded to executive which will vest, if the Company is at the median directors under the LTIP are as follows: over the three years, will be 25% rising Cycle Award At Awarded At Vesting Ending Date 1.1.
05 The market price on 12th June 2002 was 8.885.
FTSE 250-350 index over the five year period The charge to the profit and loss account in to 31st December 2002.
The index and the respect of the value of the conditional awards comparator group within the index has been and the related employers national insurance selected as a broad equity index of which Forth cost was 112,000.
Performance Review The following table summarises the TSR for the The following graph shows the TSR performance last five years of Forth Ports PLCs ranking relative of the Company and the comparator group in the to the comparator group: 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 Cumulative Total Shareholder Return Comparator group TSR %%%%% Forth Ports PLC Upper quartile 17 80 22 29 1 200 Median -4 30 7 4 -15 Lower quartile -22 -1 -10 -12 -32 Forth Ports -4 -4 26 13 23 150 Forth Ports ranking of 49 25th 37th 11th 19th 3rd 100 50 The auditable part of the Directors Remuneration 97 98 99 00 01 02 Report begins here and ends on page 31.
January 2002 with the next review being 1st January No options were granted during 2002 and no new 2004.
Mr. Thompson retired during the year and options will be issued.
Existing options granted in therefore only received a partial payment in 2002. previous years will continue to be honoured.
The figures reflect the Directors entitlement to The undernoted number of options to subscribe bonuses, not what has been paid in respect for Ordinary Shares were granted to Directors of 2002. pursuant to the existing Executive Share Option Scheme rules introduced in March 1992.
The taxable benefits include car provision, fuel provision and medical health insurance.
01 58,720 258,720 No options were granted or lapsed during the year.
The estate of Mr. A. Fleming exercised 120,000 options at various prices during the year.
Remuneration Report Forth Ports PLC 30 Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The options granted on 19th October 1998 Directors Pensions may only be exercised if the cumulative growth Executive Directors, with the exception of Mr. expressed as a percentage in the underlying P. D. Glading, receive pension entitlements from the earnings per share of the Company over any Forth Ports PLC Pension Scheme.
Mr. Glading is period of three continuous financial years a member of the Port of Tilbury London Limited commencing not earlier than the end of the Pension Fund, another pension scheme operated financial year ending 31st December 1997, by the Group.
calculated on a consistent basis, exceeds the cumulative growth expressed as a percentage Both Schemes are defined benefit schemes that in the UK Retail Price Index by an average of at provide the Directors with a pension of up to two least 3% per year over such period.
thirds of their final pensionable salary.
They are exempt approved Schemes under Chapter 1 of The options granted on 13th October 1999, Part XIV of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 26th April 2000 and 20th April 2001 may only be 1988, and all members are contracted out of the exercised on the same basis as above, in the period State Earnings Related Pension Scheme.
of three continuous financial years commencing not earlier than the end of the financial year, Pensions in payment, earned prior to 31st 31st December 1998, 31st December 1999 December 2002, are guaranteed to increase each and 31st December 2000 respectively.
year by 3% or the increase in the Retail Price Index RPI if higher, up to a maximum of 5%.
Pensions At 31st December 2001, the necessary conditions earned from 1st January 2003 increase in to allow the Directors options granted on 19th accordance with Limited Price Indexation.
October 1998, 13th October 1999 and 26th April 2000 to be exercised have been met.
Contributions are paid at rates recommended by the Scheme Actuary for each Scheme as a The first 6,072 options for each Director have been whole: details are given in Note 29.
All the granted as part of the Scheme approved by the Executive Directors will contribute 6% of salary Inland Revenue.
The balance of the shares granted with effect from 1st January 2003. under option are granted on an unapproved basis.
The figures shown opposite have been prepared The mid-market price of the shares at 31st in accordance with the Statutory Instrument and December 2002 was 8.19 2001 6.92. the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The highest mid-market price during the year was Actual Company contribution rates are calculated as 9.52 and the lowest mid-market price was 6.92. an average of the cost of providing benefits for all The Executive Directors did not exercise any Scheme members over their future working lifetime.
This recognises features such as the increasing cost of pension as members approach retiral age.
Pension accruals shown are the amounts that would have been paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
The deferred pensions in column A are based on pensionable salary at 31st December 2001 and pensionable service to that date.
The figure is then increased by 1.7% to allow for revaluation that would have applied to a leaver over 2002 before being deducted from B to give D. 3.
Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of Guidance Note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
The values in column G reflect the age and proximity to retirement of the Director as well as financial conditions at the year end.
The value of the net increase I represents the incremental value to the Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase D after deducting the Directors contribution.
The change in the transfer value L represents the difference between the transfer value of benefits at the year end valued on the basis of the financial conditions at the year end compared to the financial conditions at the previous year end.
It includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as stockmarket movements.
It is calculated after deducting the Directors contribution.
