INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF GREENE KING PLC We have audited the groups accounts for the fifty three weeks ended 4 May 2002 which comprise the Group Profit and Loss Account, the Group Balance Sheet, Parent Company Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement, Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Note of Historical Cost Profits and Losses and the related notes 1 to 29.
These accounts have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies set out therein.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with the accounts, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Group is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
This other information comprises the Directors Report, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Financial Review, Corporate Governance Statement, and Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts.
Opinion In our opinion the accounts give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the group as at 4 May 2002 and of the profit of the group for the 53 weeks then ended and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Cambridge 4 July 2002 53 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION Financial calendar Preliminary results announcement 5 July 2002 Annual report circulated 31 July 2002 Shares trade ex-dividend from 31 July 2002 Record date for final dividend 2 August 2002 Annual general meeting 30 August 2002 Payment of final dividend 6 September 2002 Announcement of interim results December 2002 Payment of interim dividend February 2003 Preliminary announcement of the 2002 results June July 2003 Capital gains tax For the purpose of computing capital gains tax, the market value of ordinary shares on 31 March 1982, after adjustment for the capitalisation issues in 1980 and 1982 was 145.125 pence.
After take-up of the rights issue in July 1996, the March 1982 value becomes 259.375 pence.
Registrars Northern Registrars Limited Northern House, Woodsome Park, Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA Telephone: 01484 600900 Fax: 01484 600911 Website: www.
co. uk Company secretary and Rob Bellhouse, FCIS registered office Westgate Brewery, Bury St Edmunds, Suffolk IP33 1QT Share dealing service NatWest Corporate and Employee Services Greene King plc service 55 Mansell Street, London E1 8AN Telephone :020 7895 5448 CORPORATE ADVISERS Financial advisers Schroder Salomon Smith Barney The Citigroup Centre, 33 Canada Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 5LB Stockbrokers Deutsche Bank AG London Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 3EQ Auditors Ernst & Young LLP Compass House, 80 Newmarket Road, Cambridge CB5 8DZ Solicitors Linklaters One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ SHAREHOLDERS INFORMATION 54
