GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders.
The names of the directors who have served on the Remuneration Committee of the The Remuneration Committee considers that, although the  Board during the year are Ian Gregg Chairman, Sonia Elkin, Stephen Curran and Derek elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are, rightly, substantial, the Netherton with effect from August 2002.
Mike Darrington and Andrew Davison have performance-related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the assisted the Committee in their deliberations on directors remuneration.
executive directors to improve shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee also received advice from Monks Partnership that Fees payable to non-executive directors are set by a committee of the Board consisting materially assisted the Committee in their consideration of matters relating to directors only of executive directors Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson who periodically remuneration, benefits and incentives.
Monks Partnership were selected and appointed seek advice from external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
advice was last obtained in 2002 from Monks Partnership and formed the basis upon which the fees payable in 2003 were set.
General Policy on Directors Remuneration Policy on Performance Conditions The Companys policy is to establish competitive remuneration packages for its directors that will attract, retain and motivate individuals with appropriate skills and experience and The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive directors will best serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders and its employees.
under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Remuneration Committee following Remuneration packages for executive directors are designed so as to reward them fairly receipt of advice from external consultants as to prevailing market practice and in order for their contributions within the range of benefits offered by other UK companies of to set challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
The Remuneration equivalent size and to recognise the unusually complex nature of the combined retail, Committee intends that performance conditions will continue to be settled on this basis manufacturing and distribution operations of the Greggs business.
and applied to any future grants of options to the executive directors under the discretionary The Remuneration Committee aims to set basic salaries for executive directors at a level Senior Executive Share Option Schemes.
Details of the performance conditions for options broadly equivalent to median salaries for individuals holding similar positions in currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Share Options below.
comparable companies, with adjustment to reflect individual performance.
Basic salaries Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested by are normally re-set every three years unless a material change in the business warrants the Remuneration Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company earlier review.
Basic salaries were last re-set in 2002, to take effect from 1 January 2003, with relevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants on the basis of advice and information as to levels of remuneration in comparable in order to reach its conclusion.
This ensures that no director is in a position to rule on companies provided by Monks Partnership.
Between major reviews, basic salaries will whether any performance condition applicable to his own options has been satisfied.
normally rise in line with rates of increase adopted elsewhere in the Greggs business.
No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the The Remuneration Committee seeks to structure total benefits packages in a manner Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all employees, which will align the interests of the executive directors with those of shareholders.
as the principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all levels within the The performance-related elements of the executive directors remuneration packages, Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth in value of the Company under which executive directors can receive payments in total of up to 50% of their and the rules of that scheme require that all options granted must be on the same terms.
basic salaries, consist of annual performance based cash bonuses and participation in the Companys Profit-Sharing Scheme which distributes 10% of profits half-yearly to all Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses payable employees on the basis of a formula related to service and salary levels.
Such bonus to the executive directors are set by the Remuneration Committee each year in accordance payments are not pensionable.
In addition, there will be occasional grants of options with the general remuneration policy set out above.
over shares in the Company, pursuant to one or more of the share option schemes operated through the Remuneration Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination approved and unapproved long-term share incentive schemes, designed to encourage The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: the executive directors and other employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
existing executive directors should have service contracts terminable on one years notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director.
In accordance with the Joint Statement from the Investment Committees of the Association Future executive directors would be engaged on terms necessary to secure individuals of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, the total number of of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: new shares over which the Company may grant options is limited and the Company has chosen to allocate most of the number available to the Companys Savings Related Share non-executive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of Option Scheme open to all employees, including executive directors.
This has restricted Association, which require them to retire and to seek re-election at the first AGM the number of new shares available to be allocated under the discretionary Senior Executive after appointment.
Thereafter, one half of the Board other than those appointed Share Option Scheme under which the last grant of options in which no executive since the last AGM, being those who have been longest in office since last redirector participated was made in 2002.
The policy adopted by the Remuneration election, and any other director who has not been elected or re-elected at either Committee is that further grants of options will be awarded to executive directors under of the two preceding AGMs, must retire and seek re-election.
The Nominations the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, only when it is necessary to ensure that the Committee advises the Board as to whether a particular director, whose turn it is value of options held is broadly in line with the median value of options held by directors to retire by rotation, should be nominated for re-election.
holding similar positions in comparable companies.
Unless granted pursuant to the all-employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme under which options may be offered at a discount to market price, all options granted to executive directors will be at exercise prices at least equal to the market price of a share as at the date of grant.
35 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The policy on termination payments for executive directors is that the Company does In addition to the above arrangements, for 2003, the executive directors have been not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in awarded a performance based cash bonus such that the combined bonus to be received respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
In exceptional circumstances, an additional by each of them under this arrangement and the Companys Profit-Sharing Scheme will ex-gratia payment may be considered, based on factors including the directors past be set according to a straight line graph, subject to confirmation by the Remuneration contribution and the circumstances of the directors departure.
By way of example as to how this graph would operate, if net profit per share before tax excluding any property profit adjusted for the issue of any shares The Companys policy on notice periods changed at the end of 2002 when the executive during the period other than those issued on the exercise of share options for 2003 is directors agreed without receiving any compensation to reduce their entitlement to greater than that for 2002 by 10%, the total bonus will be 20% of basic salary.
If such net notice in all circumstances other than within 12 months following a change of control of profit per share growth is greater than that for 2002 by 25%, the total bonus will be 50% the Company from two years to one year.
Should either of the existing executive of basic salary.
Total bonus payments are capped at 50% of basic salary.
directors employment by the Company be terminated within 12 months following a change of control of the Company, it has been agreed that he would be entitled to a Non-executive Directors payment by way of liquidated damages calculated on the basis of a two year, rather than The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
This provision was approved by the Remuneration Committee However, all of them do have letters of appointment.
The terms of appointment of in recognition of the special circumstances applicable to these executives, both of whom each non-executive director require that they seek re-election on a regular basis in have served the Company well for many years and who intend to continue to do so for accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company see above.
The fees the rest of their working lives.
payable to the non-executive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional circumstances, Non-executive directors would not normally be entitled to compensation for early where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board or a duly authorised termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be due to committee may award additional fees.
No right of compensation exists where the office retire by rotation, or if not re-appointed at such time.
is terminated, for whatever reason.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS PERFORMANCE GRAPH Details of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for the Companys shares for each of the last 5 financial years against the total shareholder return for the Executive Directors companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding investment Trusts.
Mike Darrington has a service contract with the Company.
His continuous period of service This index was chosen for this comparison because it includes companies of broadly similar with the Company commenced on 15 July 1983. size to the Company.
Malcolm Simpson has a service contract with the Company.
His continuous period of Total Shareholder Return service with the Company commenced on 24 April 1973.
400 350 Both Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson have provisions in their contracts which 300 enable them to be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice in normal 250 circumstances or by the executive on 6 months notice.
In addition to their basic salaries, 200 each is entitled to participate in the Companys profit sharing scheme available to all 150 employees and to a performance based cash bonus.
They are also entitled to additional 100 benefits including the use of a motor car, private medical insurance, life assurance, 50 permanent health insurance and a contribution towards telephone expenses.
The service 0 contracts contain a special provision which operates only in circumstances where the executive directors employment with the Company is terminated within 12 months following a change of control of the Company.
In those circumstances only they would FTSE 250 ex-Invst Trusts Greggs be entitled to a payment calculated on the basis of a two year notice period.
They will be entitled to a payment equal to their salary and the value of their other benefits Produced from information supplied by Thomson Financial, Datastream including bonus for the full two year notice period and are obliged to accept this in full settlement of any claim they may have against the Company in respect of the termination of their contract.
Their entitlement to this payment will not be affected if they in fact are able to reduce their loss by obtaining alternative employment during the normal notice period.
This provision was introduced when the executives notice periods in other circumstances were reduced from two years to twelve months and are considered by the Remuneration Committee to be appropriate in the case of executive directors who have served the Company for 20 years and 30 years respectively and who intend to devote the remainder of their working lives to the service of the Company.
36 Rebased to 100 Jan - 97 May - 97 Sep - 97 Jan - 98 May - 98 Sep - 98 Jan - 99 May - 99 Sep - 99 Jan - 00 May - 00 Sep - 00 Jan - 01 May - 01 Sep - 01 Jan - 02 May - 02 Sep - 02 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS AND COMPENSATION The following table sets out details of the emoluments and compensation received in 2002 by each director excluding pension contributions, details of which are set out below.
The fees for Sonia Elkin reflect the fact that she is the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
No part of the remuneration, other than the basic salaries of the executive directors, is taken into account when calculating pension benefits.
SHARE OPTIONS The following table sets out details of the share options all of which were granted at a nominal or nil cost to the executive director concerned held by, or granted to, each director during the year, according to the register of directors interests: Number of options during year Market Exercise price at Date from At At price date of Gain on Date of which Expiry 29 12 01 Granted Exercised 28 12 02 exercise exercise grant exercisable date Scheme Mike Darrington 5,000 - - 5,000 13.55 - - Sep 96 Sep 99 Aug 03 Executive 18,000 - - 18,000 26.875 - - Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 199 - - 199 20.98 - - Jun 99 Jun 04 Dec 04 SAYE 27,900 - - 27,900 17.015 - - Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive Malcolm Simpson 3,500 - - 3,500 13.55 - - Sep 96 Sep 99 Aug 03 Executive 12,000 - - 12,000 26.875 - - Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 199 - - 199 20.98 - - Jun 99 Jun 04 Dec 04 SAYE 18,600 - - 18,600 17.015 - - Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive The executive directors also have a potential beneficial interest in the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust see note 15 to the Accounts.
The grants awarded in 1996 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme were conditional upon the Companys earnings per share increasing annually on an average over a three year period by inflation plus 4%.
On each of the grants awarded in 1999 and 2000 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, the exercise of one half of the options granted was made conditional upon the growth in the Companys earnings per share over the three years from grant being greater than the median earnings per share growth of the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other half of the options granted was conditional upon growth in the earnings per share of the Company being at least 10% above the median earnings per share growth of such comparator companies within the same period.
No non-executive director has any options to acquire shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of ordinary shares in the Company as at 28 December 2002 was 32.375.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were 40.025 and 28.625 respectively.
37 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 PENSIONS Both of the executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme, during the period under review.
This scheme, which currently requires a contribution of 5.7% of pensionable salary from members, provides for up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, dependant on length of service.
Both of the executive directors also received contributions into the Companys money purchase defined contributions pension schemes during the period under review.
No pension benefits were earned or accrued in respect of any non-executive director.
Defined benefit scheme The following table sets out the change in each directors accrued pension in the Companys defined benefit scheme during the year and his accrued benefits in the scheme at the year end: Accrued annual Accrued annual Increase in pension pension Increase in accrued entitlement at entitlement at accrued pension age 65 as at age 65 as at pension entitlement for 28 December 29 December entitlement the year net of Date of Date service 2002 2001 for the year inflation of 1.7% Executive Director birth commenced Mike Darrington 8 3 42 15 8 83 92,410 82,379 10,031 8,631 Malcolm Simpson 15 10 41 24 4 73 91,152 82,766 8,386 6,979 Note 1: The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, but excluding any statutory increases which would be due after the year end.
Note 2: The inflation rate of 1.7% shown in the table above is that published by the Secretary of State for Social Security in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993.
Cash equivalent Contributions Increase in the Cash equivalent transfer value as at made by the director cash equivalent transfer value as at 29 December 2001 29 December 2001 transfer value since 28 December 2002 Executive Director Mike Darrington 1,084,581 15,942 97,424 1,183,648 Malcolm Simpson 1,058,847 10,413 79,615 1,153,803 Note: cash equivalent transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Money purchase schemes The Company has paid the following contributions to two of the Companys money purchase schemes the Greggs Bakeries MJD Retirement Benefit Scheme and the Greggs Senior Executive Pension Scheme for the benefit of executive directors during this financial year: Contribution Contributions in respect in respect of any other financial year Total contributions of 2002 but made in 2002 made during 2001 Director Mike Darrington 67,800 - 67,800 Malcolm Simpson 9,267 - 8,900 38 GREGGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2002 APPROVAL BY SHAREHOLDERS At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 May 2003, a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 7 March 2003.
Signed on behalf of the Board Ian Gregg, Director Chairman of Remuneration Committee 7 March 2003 39
