DAVIDOFF, OUR FLAGSHIP BRAND IN THE REST OF THE WORLD REGION, CONTINUES TO PERFORM STRONGLY.
WITH OUR EXTENDED BRAND PORTFOLIO AND WELL ESTABLISHED DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS, WE REMAIN WELL PLACED FOR FURTHER PROFITABLE GROWTH The development of the Groups business in Asia Pacific, an agreement for the production of the Bahman brand in Iran, together important growth region, continued to progress well.
Following the with the launch of the imported Davidoff and West brands, will establishment of a regional office in Singapore, we now have further enhance our presence in the region.
operations in Vietnam where our share was 8% in September 2002, representing volume growth of over 30%, and we are developing our In Africa, the successful integration of Tobaccor, acquired in March recent investments in Laos and Bangladesh.
In China, we continue to 2001, has significantly improved performance, despite some political progress arrangements with the Hongta group and State Tobacco instability particularly in Madagascar and most recently in the Ivory Monopoly Administration leading on from the letter of intent signed Coast.
Our African business has also benefited from excellent organic by Reemtsma in 2001. growth in West Africa, where our Superkings King Size brand continues to perform strongly, particularly in Nigeria.
In September Following the acquisition of Reemtsma, the Group is now the third 2002, we acquired a further 12.5% of Tobaccor for 45m, to be paid largest tobacco company in Taiwan with an overall share of 13% in at the end of December 2002 on a similar multiple as the original 2002, this market is one of the key profit contributors to the Group.
stake, including a net cash adjustment and dividends accrued since Davidoff and The Imperial held around 70% of the premium price acquisition.
Terms were also agreed to acquire the balance of shares sector in September 2002, and we remain well represented in the high by December 2005. price sector with Boss, and in the growing value sector, with West.
The market has been disrupted in the past year by a general economic Our Travel Retail and Global Duty Free business has delivered strong downturn and the first cigarette price increase in over 10 years.
These results in all areas, ahead of expectations, in a year that has been factors have encouraged consumer downtrading, resulting in a affected by reduced passenger numbers.
In the UK duty free market decrease in our market share.
The Group therefore is consolidating its we gained leadership of the cigarette market.
For the first time, we strong position in the premium sector with the launch of Davidoff 1mg also became the leading supplier of duty free tobacco products to UK in the growing lights segment, and our recent performance shows an airports.
The inclusion of Reemtsmas cigarette portfolio has helped improving sales trend.
to extend further our success in duty free outlets in Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa, the Middle East and the Americas.
In Africa and the Middle East, the Group grew volume and share and the acquisition of Reemtsma has significantly strengthened our Across the Rest of the World regions, the limited areas of position in the Middle East, complementing our already strong infrastructure overlap are being rationalised and initiatives actioned to African business.
leverage the Groups combined brand equity, including other tobacco products, through our well established distribution networks.
In the Middle East, growth has been driven by an excellent performance from Davidoff, which is now building share in several Gulf markets, including Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
23 UNITED KINGDOM KEY BRANDS IMPERIAL TOBACCO CONTINUED TO HOLD BRAND LEADERSHIP IN FOUR OF THE FIVE PRODUCT Lambert & Butler The UKs best selling brand CATEGORIES IN THE UK TOBACCO MARKET family held 16.1% market share in September 2002 Richmond Now the UKs second largest selling cigarette brand range in just three years since introduction Golden Virginia 42.9% Maintained its clear leadership of the roll your own tobacco UK 2002 AVERAGE MARKET market in the UK SHARE EX.
MARLBORO RAFFLES AND PARK LANE Rizla The worlds number one rolling paper, commands around three-quarters of the UK rolling paper market IN 2002, WE STRENGTHENED OUR LEADERSHIP POSITION Classic IN THE UK MARKET.
OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED TO Imperial Tobaccos biggest selling cigar and the second most popular brand in the UK 390M ON TURNOVER, EXCLUDING DUTY, OF 764M GERMANY KEY BRANDS THE REEMTSMA BRANDS, INCLUDING WEST, DAVIDOFF, R1, CABINET AND PETER STUYVESANT, ACCOUNT FOR West Maintained its position as AROUND A QUARTER OF ALL BRANDED CIGARETTES SOLD Germanys second largest selling cigarette brand with a market share of 9.5% IN GERMANY Davidoff A premium cigarette, which is the fastest growing brand family in Germany R1 The brand with an innovative filter system, confirmed its market leadership position in the 20.3% ultra light sector in Germany Cabinet Is our number one brand family GERMANY 2002 AVERAGE in East Germany with a market MARKET SHARE share of around 8.1% in this region Peter Stuyvesant A long established brand in Germany, is one of one of our GERMANY GENERATED OPERATING PROFIT OF 67M, INCLUDING leading brands in the high price sector FOUR AND A HALF MONTHS CONTRIBUTION FROM REEMTSMA, ON TURNOVER, EXCLUDING DUTY, OF 274M.
24 REST OF WESTERN EUROPE KEY BRANDS OUR UNDERLYING PERFORMANCE IN THE MATURE MARKETS OF THE REST OF WESTERN EUROPE REMAINS STRONG.
WE JPS American Blend In a striking red pack, is sold in GREW MARKET SHARE IN FRANCE, SPAIN AND GREECE France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Austria and Greece John Player King Size Irelands number one brand for more than 10 years Davidoff With a 41% volume increase in 2002, Davidoff is the fastest growing cigarette brand in Greece 31.0% Route 66 IRELAND 2002 AVERAGE MARKET An American blend, value proposition continues to grow SHARE INC. MARLBORO sales following its successful launch in France last year Drum Remained the clear market leader in The Netherlands OUR PERFORMANCE IN THIS REGION IS REFLECTED IN AN OPERATING contributing to a market share of around 60% 1 PROFIT OF 217M ON TURNOVER, EXCLUDING DUTY OF 495M REST OF THE WORLD KEY BRANDS THE REST OF THE WORLD IS OUR LARGEST REGION BY VOLUME AND CONTINUES TO BE A KEY ELEMENT IN OUR Davidoff Imperial Tobaccos flagship INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY strategic brand in Central and Eastern Europe West Our other strategic brand in Central and Eastern Europe continues to grow sales, especially in Poland and Slovenia Prima A family of local brands in the Ukraine, performed well, 76.5% especially Prima Optima Horizon SLOVENIA SEPTEMBER 2002 Imperial Tobaccos best selling MARKET SHARE brand in Australia with a market share of 13.4% Excellence A Virginia blend brand, is our second biggest selling brand in OPERATING PROFIT IN 2002 WAS 115M ON TURNOVER, West Africa where it leads the 1 low price sector EXCLUDING DUTY, OF 686M 1 Includes four and half months contribution from Reemtsma.
25 MANUFACTURING The acquisition of Reemtsma has significantly changed the profile of In Dublin, planning permission has been granted for a new cigarette the Group, resulting in a well-invested manufacturing base making and packing facility.
The transfer of production is expected to comprising 37 factories worldwide, producing a broad range of be completed by the end of 2003, with processed tobacco being cigarettes, roll your own and pipe tobaccos, cigars and paper products sourced from our Langenhagen factory in Germany.
- including tubes and filter tips.
Cigarette manufacturing has now been reorganised into four regions: OTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS OTP EU, Central and Eastern Europe, Africa and Asia, with other tobacco Roll your own tobacco production has benefited from the 12m products organised under a single grouping.
This structure will benefit investment in high-speed resealable pouch packaging machines at from shared technology and standards, allowing greater opportunity our Joure factory in The Netherlands.
In 2002, our roll your own for productivity improvement and reduced manufacturing costs.
tobacco operations achieved overall productivity improvements of Our strategy of seeking continuous performance improvement 8%.
Our pipe tobacco product portfolio has been successfully remains paramount.
We foresee substantial synergy savings through a rationalised and the Liverpool factory downsized accordingly.
Cigar programme of brand and blend rationalisation and the extension of production from the closed Cadena operations was successfully best practice across all manufacturing facilities, while safeguarding transferred to our Bristol factory in the UK and production levels our reputation for quality, flexibility and innovation.
Occupational normalised following a fide-stocking programme over the year.
This health and safety and concerns for the environment in which we disruption held back the overall OTP productivity improvement to operate continue to be a high priority and we maintain a proactive 4%, with unit costs held at 2001 levels.
approach to meeting the challenges from regulatory changes and Our strategy to create centres of excellence, for example, for roll your trends in the tobacco industry.
own tobacco at Joure, for cigars in Bristol and for American blend economy products at Lahr in Germany, is underway.
The development of specialist manufacturing expertise associated with each product CIGARETTE category is expected to deliver both productivity improvements and During 2002, Imperial Tobaccos cigarette factories increased overall cost savings.
productivity by 23%, an underlying productivity increase of 8% after a significant fide-stocking programme last year following changes in UK excise procedures.
Units costs were held despite additional PAPERS AND TUBES expenditure relating to new regulatory disclosure requirements in the In our rolling paper and tubes business, further underlying EU.
Initial estimates suggest that productivity increased by 15% at the productivity gains of 5% were achieved and unit costs decreased by core Reemtsma cigarette factories in 2002.
In Germany, the 8%, through rebalancing production capacity and the closure of our Nordhausen cigarette factory ceased production in September 2002, production facility at Mazres in France.
The consolidation of tubes with most of the volume being transferred to Langenhagen.
production at Trossingen in Germany and rolling paper production at Wilrijk in Belgium and Treforest in Wales, was also successfully The creation of a centre of excellence for filter technology in Debrecen, Hungary is progressing well, and the in-house production completed.
During 2002, our Treforest production facility attained ISO 14001 accreditation for its environmental management practices.
of StreamTec filters for the West brand is expected to deliver benefits in 2003.
All of these measures will keep Imperial Tobaccos high quality, low A new expansion process for stem has been installed and cost production base at the forefront of efficiency, and further support commissioned in Tarnow, Poland.
This product is now being included our growing manufacturing operations worldwide.
in some blends and is delivering significant cost savings.
A major expansion of the Volgograd factory in Russia is underway, to meet increased market demand.
PROSPECTS Imperial Tobacco has demonstrated by its six-year track record of While not underestimating the challenges we face, we are confident consistent profit delivery, positive cash flow and successful integration that the powerful combination arising from the acquisition of of acquisitions that it has the ability to implement its proven strategy Reemtsma provides us with an enviable opportunity to strengthen for delivering sustainable shareholder value.
our global position for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
The acquisition of Reemtsma offers enormous potential for growth in what will continue to be one of the worlds most challenging and competitive industries.
The future will bring significant change as we merge all aspects of the business, embracing best practice, whether of Imperial Tobacco or Reemtsma origin.
We will seek to leverage our combined geographic spread and greater brand equity and, from a Gareth Davis Robert Dyrbus transformed cost base, capitalise on our strengthened growth platform.
26 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Business success is judged not only by financial performance, no matter how recovery work following the floods in Germany and donations to art, culture impressive, but also by the way an organisation fulfils its obligations of effective and social institutions, while Tobaccor supported AIDS campaigns and sports stewardship and responsible behaviour.
At Imperial Tobacco we remain associations.
committed to meeting those responsibilities as a good corporate citizen.
Imperial Tobacco celebrated the centenary of its formation in this financial VISION AND VALUES year.
It is appropriate to recall the tradition of philanthropy of the founding Imperial Tobacco used the acquisition of Reemtsma as an opportunity to Wills and Players families, not least in the donations to universities, museums reaffirm its vision, values and beliefs to its employees.
Our core values not only and the local communities in which the Company started.
The development include working together for the good of the whole business and valuing of infrastructure projects in Africa is also not new, with the Company actively individuality and hard work, but also commit the Company to behaving participating in the development of the former Nyasaland and Southern responsibly, with high standards of business ethics and concern for the welfare Rhodesia almost a century ago.
We remain committed to the development of the communities of which we Imperial Tobacco also believes in creating opportunities for employees to are a part, both in the UK and overseas.
Our high standards are reflected develop individually and as a team, and places strong emphasis on learning and throughout our Tobaccor operations in Africa, where our initiatives include development.
We have a loyal and motivated workforce and seek to encourage the provision of sanitation, health and education facilities as well as providing fulfilment of potential at every level of our business through internal and jobs and local revenue.
Our African factories work closely with their local external training and skills enhancement.
Comprehensive training communities, often including community leaders on their advisory boards.
programmes to ensure effective management of our businesses have been In France, where economic conditions have led to the closure of our rolling established through links with Cranfield University and Ashridge papers factory in Mazres, we have sought to ensure that land is returned to Management Centre in the UK and Insead in France.
the local community, as a gift, for its planned use as a museum.
To align further the interests of employees with those of shareholders, wherever possible we invite employees to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial Tobacco Group shares.
Further opportunities COMMUNITIES, CHARITIES & EMPLOYEES to join Sharesave schemes in the UK and overseas were offered during the Imperial Tobacco also seeks to support and to encourage positively the efforts year.
In addition, in our centenary year, employees were invited to participate of its staff both to participate in community activities and to raise money for in the Centenary Share Matching Scheme, enabling them to share further in charitable causes.
In many cases, the Company matches the money they raise the economic success of the Company, to which they make such a positive using its charities fund.
It also matches donations made by employees under contribution.
the Give As You Earn scheme administered through the Charities Aid Foundation.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In the year to 28 September 2002, Imperial Tobacco, as part of its ongoing commitment in the UK, donated a total of 663,000 to charities: in many The Board has reaffirmed its commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility cases seeking to provide long-term funding for particular community and to its implementation throughout the Imperial Tobacco Group.
Following initiatives including such organisations as the Citizens Advice Bureau.
the acquisition of Reemtsma, revised timetables for action are being drawn up Exceptionally, this included in the Companys centenary year, 300,000 to and will be published on our website.
The Board takes a personal interest in support museums in Bristol and Nottingham to reflect the contribution the these activities and the Director of Corporate Affairs is tasked to provide regular Company has made to the economic life of both cities.
Overseas, Imperial reports on progress to enable the Board to report more fully on Corporate Tobacco donated a total of 191,000 including support for disaster relief and Social Responsibility issues in the Groups 2003 Annual Report and Accounts.. 27 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE Also, along with other tobacco manufacturers in the UK and Australia, ENVIRONMENT OHSE Imperial Tobacco has assisted national authorities in gathering data on the smoke constituents of its tobacco products.
Imperial Tobacco seeks to provide superior returns for its shareholders in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, while maintaining a As part of this exercise, Imperial Tobacco has also investigated the variability commitment to sustainable development.
of measurements, provided by reliable laboratories, of over 40 constituents of cigarette smoke.
The data, made available to appropriate authorities in the UK In this financial year, we have strengthened our occupational health, safety and and to the academic community, suggest that the variability is presently too environmental management systems in line with our commitment to move high for these measurements to be used for regulatory or verification beyond basic legal compliance by seeking to minimise the adverse impacts of purposes.
Therefore, Imperial Tobacco is collaborating through the Centre fide our operations on the natural environment.
Coopration pour les Recherches Scientifiques relatives au Tabac We have extended our electricity supply contract so that all UK grid CORESTA to develop more reliable and validated methods for measuring electricity is obtained from renewable sources and qualifies as Climate Change smoke constituents.
Independent energy audits have been completed at all our European manufacturing and logistics sites to identify improvement SAFETY OF CIGARETTES opportunities and provide a sound basis for energy conservation measures to deliver the 10% reduction target we have set.
Imperial Tobacco acknowledges that no cigarette should be regarded as safe.
The Company was one of the first to explore alternatives to tobacco in the Our objective of achieving ISO 14001 registration for all manufacturing and 1960s, in dialogue with the UK Independent Scientific Committee on logistics operations by the end of 2004 is progressing well, with Treforest and Smoking and Health.
This led to the development of New Smoking Material Avonmouth in the UK our first sites to be recommended for certification.
NSM which, following extensive testing, was launched in the UK in 1977.
Four further sites are expected to be registered before the end of 2003 with Cigarette products containing NSM were vigorously opposed by the Health the remainder a year later.
Recently acquired Tobaccor and Reemtsma sites Education Authority and were subsequently withdrawn.
will also be integrated into an extended programme.
This salutary experience illustrates the need to debate with public health Our Occupational Health and Safety programme has concentrated on risk bodies and agree objective criteria by which modifications made to cigarettes assessment and on reducing manual handling risks.
All our European can be judged.
It is only when these criteria are in place that tobacco manufacturing and logistics sites have been independently audited and are companies can, with any confidence, focus their efforts on developing the now strengthening management systems in line with OHSAS 18001. next generation of products and offer them to the smoking public.
Imperial During 2002 we have improved our Group OHSE performance Tobacco would welcome further discussion with appropriate authorities on measurement system and added new measures to improve its scope and this issue.
We remain committed to continued progress in management systems development and performance improvement in our established facilities.
The consolidation and integration of management and measurement TOBACCO INDUSTRY ISSUES processes in the enlarged organisation is a priority for 2003.
During the year regulatory pressures on our industry have continued.
In particular there are several EU initiatives that are intended to restrict further We seek to influence our tobacco suppliers through the Social Responsibility the way in which we conduct our business.
in Tobacco Production Programme, which is supported by a number of companies in the worldwide tobacco industry.
In 2001, the EU passed a Directive on the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products.
This requires much larger health warnings on all tobacco A more comprehensive report on the Groups occupational health and safety products, bans the use of product descriptors such as lights and mild, and performance, verified by SGS UK Ltd is available on our website requires manufacturers to disclose details of ingredients and their purpose.
com Directive also imposes lower tar and nicotine yield ceilings and a new carbon monoxide yield ceiling, for all cigarettes sold in the EU from January 2004.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP These yields will also apply to cigarettes manufactured for export outside the EU, to take effect from January 2005 to January 2007 at Member States Imperial Tobacco has published on its website details of the ingredients added discretion.
Member States were required to implement this Directive by to the tobacco in its cigarettes sold in major markets, in a format similar to 30 September 2002, but not all have yet complied.
that used for food products.
It is planned to extend the coverage to both the acquired Reemtsma cigarette portfolio and all markets of the world during Imperial Tobacco, along with British American Tobacco, challenged this the course of 2003.
Directive on the grounds that it violates several principles of European law and obtained a hearing at the European Court of Justice ECJ.
This action was Declaration of the ingredients in the Companys tobacco products will also be taken with extreme reluctance because we do not oppose reasonable and made to national authorities within the EU at the end of 2002, together with practical regulation of tobacco products.
However, the Company believes this appropriate information on their toxicology under the terms of the EU Directive has fundamental flaws and should be declared invalid.
The Advocate Directive concerning the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco products.
BUSINESS SUCCESS IS JUDGED NOT ONLY BY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, NO MATTER HOW IMPRESSIVE, BUT ALSO BY THE WAY AN ORGANISATION FULFILS ITS OBLIGATIONS OF EFFECTIVE STEWARDSHIP AND RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR.
28 General has given his opinion that the Directive is valid, but the European The EU accession countries will have to implement significant duty increases Court has yet to rule.
However should the Directive come into force we have in order to comply with the minimum cigarette excise tax amounts.
taken all necessary steps to prepare for compliance with any resulting legislation.
Therefore, accession countries have been given derogations, the longest being up to January 2010, before having to comply with the A64 per thousand Also in 2001, the European Commission proposed a new Directive to ban cigarette excise tax minimum.
tobacco advertising in print media, in radio broadcasting and on the Internet, and restrict certain sponsorship activity.
Along with Germany and other The Directive also introduced annual increases, in July each year, to the tobacco companies, Imperial Tobacco successfully challenged the previous minimum excise tax on roll your own tobacco in order to bring the tax on Directive on the grounds that it was legally unsound.
In December 2002, the this product more closely into line with the minimum excise tax for new Directive was approved by EU Institutions although we believe it still cigarettes.
The minimum EU excise tax on roll your own tobacco will, contains many of the flaws of the former Directive.
Germany voted against therefore, increase from 30% of retail price or A24 per kilogram, up to 36% of this Directive and may choose to challenge it at the ECJ, as might other retail price or A32 per kilogram by July 2004 across all Member States.
These increases in cigarette and roll your own tobacco minimum tax levels In the third area of tobacco regulation, the EU is proposing a will have no effect on either the UK or Germany, where excise taxation Recommendation on a range of tobacco issues, including youth smoking already exceeds these minimum rates.
prevention, which would not be binding on Member States.
Imperial Tobacco agrees with some features of the Recommendation and is making its views TOBACCO RELATED LITIGATION known to decision makers.
Imperial Tobacco is currently involved in one legal action in England and Various national governments continue to introduce regulations including, in Wales which has been refused public funding.
It is anticipated that this action the UK, a ban on tobacco advertising, promotion and sponsorship, which will be discontinued shortly.
received Royal Assent on 7 November 2002 and, in Ireland, a comprehensive Tobacco Control Act.
In Scotland, Imperial Tobacco is currently involved in 11 separate cases, where individual claimants are seeking damages for alleged smoking-related health In June 2002, Imperial Tobacco attended a meeting of the Committee of effects.
Of these cases, nine have been stayed.
In one of the other cases a trial Public Accounts concerning levels of co-operation with HM Customs & date has been fixed for October 2003.
In the other case, which commenced Excise over tobacco smuggling issues.
We remain fully committed to working in 1995, the claimant is representing himself and there has been no activity with Customs and we believe significant progress has been made in since May 2001. developing a positive and constructive working relationship, with the ultimate objective of mutually agreeing a Memorandum of Understanding on antiIn the Republic of Ireland, the number of individual claims against Imperial smuggling co-operation early in 2003.
Tobaccos subsidiary currently stands at 110.
Statements of claim have been The World Health Organisation WHO continues to progress the served in 30 of these cases.
Since 1997, 197 other claims have been dismissed, Framework Convention for Tobacco Control FCTC through international discontinued or confirmed as not proceeding.
While we agree with the need to take strong measures to stamp companies are involved in many of the current cases, in none of which has a out the illegal trade in smuggled and counterfeit products and on youth trial date been fixed.
smoking prevention, in other areas we believe the WHO is trying to assume In The Netherlands, an Imperial Tobacco subsidiary has received letters on responsibilities more appropriately left to other authorities.
behalf of 39 individuals claiming damages for alleged smoking-related health Although there are many regulatory requirements which the Company must effects.
Other tobacco companies have received similar letters.
No meet by law, there are other areas where we have been pro-active in voluntarily proceedings have been commenced against Imperial Tobacco or any of its adopting standards which ensure we conduct our business in a socially subsidiaries in The Netherlands.
In particular, we disclose details of the ingredients in our In Germany and Poland, during 2002 one individual claimant in each country cigarettes on our website and we have implemented an International Code of has served proceedings on Imperial Tobaccos subsidiaries.
No trial dates have Practice for the Marketing of Tobacco Products, which underpins our existing been fixed in either of these cases.
high standards for self-regulation of advertising and marketing practices.
In Australia, an individual claimant has served proceedings on Imperial Tobaccos subsidiary.
A statement of claim has been served.
Imperial Tobaccos TAXATION subsidiary has applied to have the claim against it struck out.
In February 2002, the Council of Ministers adopted an EU Directive revising To date, no judgment has been entered and no action has been settled in favour the minimum rates of excise duties to be levied on manufactured tobacco of a claimant in any tobacco-related litigation by Imperial Tobacco or any of products.
Although it is not possible to predict the outcome of pending litigation, where claims have been particularised, Imperial Tobacco has been The Directive established a fixed minimum rate of excise duty of A60 per advised by its lawyers that, in their opinion, the Company has meritorious thousand cigarettes, increasing to A64 from July 2006, for the most popular price defences to these actions, all of which are being vigorously contested.
category of cigarettes in each Member State.
Spain, the only Member State to be affected by the A60 minimum, has been granted a derogation to delay applying this minimum until January 2005.
In addition, both Spain and Greece have been granted a derogation to delay applying the A64 minimum until January 2008.. 29 1.
ANTHONY ALEXANDER, AGED 64, Chairman and Member of the Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director Remuneration Committee and a Member of the Audit Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our Appointed our Vice Chairman on demerger and London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996.
He is acts as senior independent Non-Executive currently Non-Executive Chairman of Cadbury Director.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Schweppes plc, Fieldens plc and Marconi plc and Director of Inchcape PLC, Misys plc and a Non-Executive Director of TXU Corp. USA.
He is a former Executive He has a wide range of managerial and financial Director of Hanson PLC and as Chief Operating experience gained as a former Executive Chairman Officer he had responsibility for all their UK of The Energy Group PLC and Deputy Chairman operating companies.
of Hanson PLC, having previously held a number of senior management and financial positions.
GARETH DAVIS, AGED 52, Chief Executive Joined Imperial Tobacco Limited in 1972 and has held a number of senior positions including Manufacturing Director of cigarette and roll your own tobacco from 1987 and Managing Director of the international business from 1988.
He was appointed Chief Executive on our incorporation in 1996.
He has wide experience of all aspects of Imperial Tobaccos business and has played a key role in the development of both general strategy and our ongoing expansion programme.
