26 Board report on remuneration Introduction Committee operation The Remuneration Committee the Committee has formal Terms of The members of the Committee during 2002 were Hugh Norton Reference.
It is responsible for recommending to the Board the Chairman, Sir John Egan, Tony Alexander, Simon Robertson and Companys policy on executive remuneration.
It is also responsible Ken Hanna.
They are all Non-executive and independent of the for determining specific remuneration packages and terms of management of Inchcape.
Tony Alexander retired from the employment, including pension rights, for Executive Directors and Committee on 16 May 2002.
The remaining members served certain other senior executives.
This includes agreeing performance on the Committee throughout the year.
incentive arrangements and approving allocations under any long The Committee has an annual meeting to review the term incentive arrangements, including executive share options.
compensation arrangements for each Executive Director and certain The current remuneration policy as described below was other senior executives, in advance of the annual salary review on explained in a circular to shareholders in 1999 in advance of that 1 April.
During 2002 the Committee held two scheduled meetings years Annual General Meeting, with a threefold aim: and other ad hoc meetings as necessary.
The Committee has authority from the Board to obtain to recognise the fresh start which the Group was making as a the services of external independent advisers, as it may require.
motors only group: In 2002, the Committee received advice from the following to encourage executives of the restructured Group to deliver remuneration and benefits consultancies: Hay Group, Monks long term shareholder value: and Partnership and Towers Perrin.
Monks and Towers Perrin also provided advice on retirement benefits.
Towers Perrin were to offer executives the opportunity of sharing in the success for appointed as formal advisers to the Committee in December 2002. which they are responsible.
During the year, the Committee has been advised internally by the Additionally, the Board stated its intention to review this policy after Group Chief Executive, Peter Johnson, the Group Company five years, to ensure that it continued to meet its aims and to reflect Secretary, Roy Williams, and the Group Human Resources Manager, best practice.
No executive attended when his or her own Shareholders were consulted in advance and the Companys remuneration was discussed.
proposals were approved at the 1999 Annual General Meeting.
These external and internal sources of advice and data, together The Committees view is that the policy continues to meet its with consideration of the levels of pay increases for other aim but, going forward recent corporate governance developments employees and the policy outlined below, provide a framework need to be fully considered and reflected in the policy as for the decision making process.
Accordingly, and one year ahead of the original Throughout 2002 the Company complied with the provisions of commitment, the Committee has commissioned a review of the Schedule A of the Combined Code relating to the design of policy, including the structure and design of each element of the performance related remuneration.
In preparing this report the remuneration package, to take place during 2003.
The new policy Board has followed the provisions of Schedule B of the Combined will be set out in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2003 and a Code.
The contents of this report also comply with the Directors resolution to approve that Report will be put to shareholders at the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
