Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 29 Introduction non-executive directors is determined by the Board within This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors limits set out in the Articles of Association.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations There are four main elements of the remuneration package for which introduced new statutory requirements for the executive directors: disclosure of directors remuneration in respect of periods ending on or after 31 December 2002.
The report also meets basic annual salary and benefits: the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial annual bonus payments with in some cases linked share Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the arrangements: Principles of Good Governance relating to directors share option incentives: and remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to pensions.
approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General The Companys policy is that a substantial portion of the Meeting AGM of the Company.
remuneration of the executive directors should be The Regulations require the Auditors to report to the Companys performance-related.
As described below, executive directors members on the auditable section of this report and to state may earn annual incentive payments up to a defined whether in their opinion that part of the report has been percentage of their basic salary together with the benefits of properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 participating in various share option schemes.
as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been Annual Basic Salary divided into separate sections containing unaudited and audited The executive directors salaries are reviewed by the Committee information.
Pages 29 to 32 of this report contain unaudited annually for implementation of such review from 1 July in each information and pages 32 beginning with Directors Emoluments year.
Ad hoc reviews can also be made.
In deciding upon and Compensation to 35 contain audited information.
appropriate salary levels, the Committee takes into account Remuneration Committee current remuneration trends, relative up-to-date information The Company has a Remuneration Committee which is from other comparable groups of companies and the provisions constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the of Schedule A to the Combined Code.
Combined Code and which determines the remuneration of the In addition to basic salary, the executive directors receive executive directors.
certain benefits-in-kind, principally a car and fuel or car The directors who have served on the Remuneration Committee allowance, and medical and permanent health insurance.
the Committee during the year are: Mr D C Keys Chairman Annual Bonus Payments of the Committee, Mr J M F Padovan and Mr W S Rogers, all of In the case of Messrs Ringrose, Hagerty and Vyse the Committee whom the Board regards as independent.
establishes performance conditions annually which govern the Mr Keys will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the amount of bonus payable in respect of each financial year, AGM on 14 May 2003.
Mr Padovan will be appointed as subject to a ceiling of 100 per cent of basic salary.
The Chairman of the Committee following Mr Keys retirement.
performance conditions for 2002 were based on a sliding scale Mr Rogers retired from the Board on 31 December 2002. of growth rates for underlying earnings per share EPS.
Under Mr Balfour was appointed to the Committee on 1 January 2003. their bonus scheme 50 per cent of the net bonus receivable by them in relation to 2002 must be invested in Company shares None of the Committee has any personal financial interest under the Interserve Plc Share Matching Plan the Share other than as a shareholder, any conflict of interest arising Matching Plan with the balance being payable in cash.
from cross-directorships, or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No director plays a part in any discussion In the case of Messrs Bottjer, Groom, Hannah and Lee the about his own remuneration.
formula for calculating their bonus and applicable performance conditions are stated within their service contracts and are In determining the executive directors remuneration the based primarily on the moving average of EPS, before goodwill Committee consulted with and received recommendations from amortisation, over the past three years, with other components Mr Bottjer Group Chairman.
The Committee also received based on Company wage and salary bill and return on capital advice relating to executive directors remuneration from New employed, subject to a ceiling of 150 per cent of basic salary.
Bridge Street Consultants, who were appointed by the There is no obligation to invest any of their bonus under the Committee during the previous year.
New Bridge Street Share Matching Plan.
Consultants did not provide any other service to the Group.
Share Matching Plan Remuneration Policy The Share Matching Plan was introduced following its approval Executive directors remuneration packages are designed to at the AGM on 9 May 2002.
Under this arrangement attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to participants are required to invest up to 50 per cent of their improve the Companys performance, to align the interests of net annual cash bonus in Company shares Investment the directors with those of the shareholders and to reward Shares.
The percentage applicable for each year not them for enhancing shareholder value.
The determination of exceeding 50 per cent is determined annually by the their annual remuneration packages is undertaken by the Committee.
To the extent that Investment Shares are retained Committee.
Directors remuneration will be the subject of for a three-year period, the participant remains employed and regular review, in accordance with this policy, during this and if certain conditions are satisfied, they will receive free shares following financial years.
The remuneration of the Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 30 from the Company Free Shares that will match the number excess of 200 per cent of salary unless the Committee is satisfied of Investment Shares deemed acquired on a pre-tax basis and that there are exceptional circumstances which justify this.
The performance conditions in relation to options to be granted For the first cycle of the Share Matching Plan participants are during the current financial year are that over a period of at required to invest 50 per cent of their net annual cash bonus, least three consecutive financial years, measuring from the and grants under the Share Matching Plan will be made to financial year ended 31 December 2002: Messrs Ringrose, Hagerty and Vyse in relation to their bonuses in respect of the first third of an option, the Companys EPS for 2002, subject to certain conditions.
These conditions are growth must exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index based on the Companys EPS growth over a three-year period, RPI by an average of at least 3 per cent per year: measured from the financial year ending just prior to the grant in respect of the second third of an option, the Companys of the awards.
The level of match of Free Shares to Investment EPS growth must exceed the growth in RPI by an average of Shares will be calculated in accordance with the following table: at least 4 per cent per year: and Average annual EPS growth Level of match i. e. number of in respect of the final third of an option, the Companys EPS over three-year period Free Shares to number of growth must exceed the growth in RPI by an average of at after grant Investment Shares deemed least 7 per cent per year.
acquired or retained To the extent that the performance conditions are not satisfied Less than RPI 3% 0.25:1 by the fifth anniversary of grant, the option lapses.
RPI 3% 0.5:1 The performance conditions were chosen so as to strike an RPI 3% to 12% 0.5:1 to 1:1 pro rated appropriate balance between potential reward levels and the RPI 12% 1:1 targets attaching to the options so that, in relation to the There will be no re-testing of performance following the end of market, the targets were reasonable.
The Committee will determine whether the performance The performance conditions, relating increases in EPS to conditions under the 2002 Scheme and the Share Matching Plan inflation rates, were chosen to ensure that higher rewards have been met by using the EPS information contained within would only be achievable for superior financial performance by the Companys annual report and accounts and taking the the Company.
advice of the Auditors, should it be deemed necessary, as to whether any adjustments are required to ensure consistency in Share Options accordance with the terms of the relevant performance The Interserve Sharesave Scheme the Sharesave Scheme was conditions.
It is an all-employee share scheme and, as is normal with sharesave schemes, the exercise of In relation to the 2002 Scheme the definition of EPS is to be options is not dependent upon performance criteria.
There are determined by the Committee on such basis as it shall choose currently options granted under the Sharesave Scheme which from time to time excluding exceptional items unless otherwise remain unexercised, the details of which are set out on determined.
The Company does not operate any long-term incentive The earliest executive share option plan under which options are schemes other than the share option schemes described above, still outstanding the Plan was introduced on 17 April 1997 and no amendments are proposed to be made to the terms and and amended by a resolution of the members passed at an conditions of any entitlement of a director to share options.
Extraordinary General Meeting held on 7 March 2001.
There are Non-executive directors do not participate in the Groups share currently options granted under the Plan which remain option schemes.
unexercised, the details of which are set out on pages 33 and 34 Pension Arrangements of this report.
No further grants of options will be made under With the exception of Mr Bottjer who has his own personal the Plan.
pension plan, all executive directors are members of the The Interserve Plc 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme the Interserve Pension Scheme the Scheme.
In general the 2002 Scheme was introduced following its approval at the Scheme provides a pension on retirement equal to 1 60 of basic AGM on 9 May 2002.
The Companys policy is to grant options annual salary for each year and proportionately for each month under the 2002 Scheme annually, at the discretion of the of pensionable service subject to this not exceeding Inland Committee, to motivate selected employees who have Revenue limits.
In the event of death in service the executive previously performed well and who will, potentially, influence directors in the Scheme are covered for a lump sum benefit of the future performance of the business and enhance four times basic salary subject to Inland Revenue limits payable shareholder value.
by the Trustee of the Scheme at its discretion to one or more of their dependants.
In addition, a pension would be payable to No options have yet been granted under the 2002 Scheme.
their spouse or an alternative financial dependant.
Each option will be subject to a performance condition, in a form determined by the Committee, which is intended to link the Under the arrangements agreed with Mr Lee in October 1990 he exercise of the option to a sustained improvement in the is entitled to an annual pension of an amount equal to 1 30 of underlying financial performance of the Group.
Options will not 150 per cent of the basic annual salary paid to him during the be granted over shares with a market value at the date of grant in 12 months ending on his retirement or if earlier the date of his Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 31 leaving service for each year and proportionately for each a a bonus calculated in accordance with the formula month of pensionable service subject to this not exceeding contained within the executives service contract for the Inland Revenue limits.
In the event of his death in service financial year of the Company in which the employment Mr Lee is covered for a lump sum benefit of four times basic terminates, the bonus being the calculated proportion of salary subject to Inland Revenue limits payable by the Trustee salary paid or payable to the executive for his actual service of the Scheme at its discretion to one or more of his during that financial year: and dependants.
In addition, a pension would be payable to his b save in the event of termination as a result of death or spouse or an alternative financial dependant.
permanent incapacity of the executive, a payment in lieu of The normal retirement age for executive directors is 60 years.
the annual bonus which, after deducting any bonus due There are no unfunded or unapproved pension promises or under a above for any concurrent period, had the similar arrangements for directors.
Company given due notice of termination, the executive would have received in respect of such notice period.
Executive Directors Service Contracts The Companys policy on the duration of directors service The service contract of Mr Hannah provides that if the contracts is that all newly appointed executive directors should executives employment is terminated on less than two years have contracts terminable at any time on one years notice save notice but not to the extent that such expiry date exceeds where it is necessary to offer longer notice periods to any new Normal Retirement Age : directors recruited from outside the Group, in which case such a no payment of bonus under the bonus scheme applicable to periods would be reduced to one year after an initial period.
him the Scheme shall be made in respect of the period Details of executive directors service contracts are summarised starting on the actual date of termination or on the date as follows: notice was given, if earlier: and Name Date of contract Notice period b any calculation of damages payable to the executive for M C Bottjer 2 April 1990 one year breach of contract shall exclude as a head of claim any 1 C J Groom 16 January 2001 one year amount representing that which would have been payable S B Hagerty 13 December 2001 one year under the Scheme had the contract been terminated by the A R Hannah 13 October 1995 two years Company upon proper notice.
M S Lee 2 April 1990 two years In the event of Mr Hannahs employment being terminated A M Ringrose 13 December 2001 one year partway through any financial year he is entitled to payment J H Vyse 13 December 2001 one year of a proportionate part of the bonus to which he would be 1 Mr Groom gave notice to the Company on 27 November 2002 that he would entitled had he remained employed throughout the relevant be retiring as a director and employee on 31 December 2003 without financial year, such apportionment being calculated by compensation for loss of office.
At the date of this report his service contract reference to the total number of days of his employment as a has nine months and 16 days left to run.
proportion of the financial year.
Mr Wentzell, a former executive director, retired from the Non-Executive directors Board on 9 May 2002 and as an employee on 30 June 2002.
Non-executive directors are appointed initially until the first Messrs Hannah and Lees service contracts pre-date the time AGM of the Company when they are required to stand for when the Company adopted its present policy on duration of re-election and, subject to their re-election, thereafter for a service contracts.
The Committee considers that it is in the best maximum period of three years, renewable on the agreement of interests of the Company not to disturb these service contracts.
both the Company and the director.
These appointments are terminable only by the members passing an ordinary resolution In the event of the termination of any service contract the as required by section 303 of the Companies Act 1985, or if the policy of the Company would be not to make payments beyond director were not to be re-elected, or by the director, on one its contractual obligations.
The fees of the nonThe service contracts of Messrs Groom, Hagerty, Ringrose and executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole, Vyse provide that if the contract is terminated summarily, for taking into account amounts paid by other similar sized reasons other than gross misconduct, liquidated damages equal companies within the FTSE 350 index.
to the executives annual basic salary are payable.
The Mr Padovan retires from the Board by rotation, having served executives entitlement to this payment would not be affected for almost the full term of his three-year appointment which if the executive is in fact able to reduce his loss by obtaining became effective on 16 May 2000.
Mr Padovan and Mr Balfour, alternative employment during the normal notice period.
who are proposed for re-election, being non-executive The service contracts of Messrs Bottjer and Lee provide that if directors, do not have service contracts.
the executives employment is terminated by the Company Mr Keys who was last appointed on 15 May 2001 will be without notice or without due notice other than lawfully retiring as a director at the close of business of the AGM either as a result of the executive committing an act of scheduled to take place on 14 May 2003. bankruptcy or compounding with his creditors or not faithfully discharging his duties under his service contract or otherwise Mr Rogers retired from the Board on 31 December 2002. the executive is entitled to receive in addition to annual bonus accrued in respect of completed financial years: Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 32 Performance Graph The graph below, which has been included as required by the Regulations, shows a comparison of the total shareholder return TSR for the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the support services sector of the FTSE index.
This index was chosen for this comparison because it includes the most appropriate comparator group against which the performance of the Company may be judged.
400 Interserve FTSE Support Services Price index 300 Note: The Company transferred from the Construction 200 & Building Materials sector to the Support Services sector of the FTSE classifications in June 2000.
1 The sum shown in the above table includes assets that were transferred to Mr Wentzell with a taxable value of 34,600 2001: nil in respect of directors fees for his directorships of Douglas Contractors Overseas Ltd and Clough Smith Rail Ltd for the period 1 July 2002 until 30 June 2003.
Value of Hypothetical 100 Holding Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 33 Directors Shareholdings and Share Options The aggregate emoluments and compensation disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the directors.
Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 34 There were no exercises of share options by directors during the year and no options lapsed unexercised in the year.
The market price of the shares as at 31 December 2002 was 166.50p.
The highest and lowest market prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were 579.50p and 166.50p respectively.
Mr G P Balfour was appointed a non-executive director on 1 January 2003.
His holding of ordinary shares of 10p in the Company as at that date was nil.
a The performance conditions attaching to the options marked is that over a three-year period the Companys performance, in terms of EPS growth, must exceed the growth in the RPI by an average of 2 per cent per annum.
b The performance conditions attaching to the options marked is that over a three-year period the Companys performance, in terms of EPS growth, must exceed the growth in the RPI by an average of 4 per cent per annum.
c There are no performance conditions attaching to the options marked as these options were issued under the Interserve Sharesave Scheme, an all-employee share scheme.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for share options during the financial year.
The directors interests set out in the above table have been updated to within one month of the Notice of the AGM.
1 Mr C J Groom holds 2,354,700 2001: 2,354,700 unsecured floating rate loan notes issued by the Company.
2 Mr A M Ringrose holds 118,700 2001: 118,700 unsecured floating rate loan notes issued by the Company.
3 Resigned as a Board director on 9 May 2002.
4 Mr S B Hagerty holds 1,550,000 6 per cent unsecured loan notes issued by Bandt Holdings Ltd. A further 550,000 loan notes are held by a nominee company on his behalf.
Directors Pension Entitlements Seven directors of the Company earned pension benefits in the Interserve Pension Scheme the Scheme which is a defined benefit pension scheme.
Defined benefit scheme The following table sets out the change in each executive directors accrued pension entitlements under the Scheme during the year and his accrued benefits in the Scheme at the year end together with the cash equivalent transfer value Transfer Value of each executive directors accrued benefits under the Scheme calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Scheme Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
2 This was the full pension payable following Mr Wentzells retirement on 30 June 2002 prior to the commutation of part of the pension for a tax-free cash sum in accordance with the rules of the Scheme as required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules and is not therefore comparable with the accrued pension at 31 December 2001.
3 2,420,000 is the amount prior to the commutation mentioned above that would have been the transfer value required by the Regulations but for Mr Wentzells retirement on 30 June 2002 and is not therefore comparable with the transfer value at 31 December 2001.
There is therefore no actual transfer value.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the Scheme.
Non-executive directors fees are not pensionable and they have therefore not been included in the above table.
Interserve Plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual report 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2002 35 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions.
Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above tables.
The pensionable service of Mr Wentzell was augmented by 2.625 years during the six-month period immediately preceding 30 June 2002 and the Company waived the early retirement factor of 3 per cent which would, under normal circumstances, have been deductible from his pension upon his transfer to the open section of the Interserve Pension Scheme from the Douglas Pension Scheme.
The estimated value of the forgoing is 112,000.
Special benefits were awarded to Mr Bottjer and Mr Lee under the Scheme on 26 October 1990.
In March 1998 Mr Bottjer transferred his entitlements to a personal pension plan.
Mr Lee switches in accordance with the terms of the Scheme applicable to him from a money purchase scheme to a defined benefit scheme with effect from 14 March 2003 and, accordingly, the disclosures for the year ended 31 December 2002 have been made on a defined benefit basis.
Mr Lees switch will not add to the liabilities of the Scheme.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: T. Bradbury Company Secretary 12 March 2003
