Kidde plc 2002 9 directors remuneration report The directors present the Remuneration Report to shareholders guidelines and recommendations of the Combined Code as well which contains the following: as the requirements of The Listing Rules and company law.
Remuneration Committee composition, terms of reference No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
and material assistance Material Assistance to the Committee Statement of the Companys policy on remuneration and In assisting the Committee in determining remuneration for the components of the remuneration package directors and senior executives, the Committee has consulted with Service contracts the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
During the year, the Committee appointed Deloitte & Touche to The report is in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report provide advice to the Committee on remuneration matters such Regulations 2002 which apply to the Company for the first time.
Deloitte & Touche does not provide any other services to the Company.
A resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM on 29 April 2003 inviting them to consider and approve this report.
STATEMENT OF THE COMPANYS POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR THE FORTHCOMING YEAR AND FUTURE YEARS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Objective Composition The objective of the Committee is to ensure that members of During the financial year to 31 December 2002, the members of executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to the Remuneration Committee the Committee were John Poulter encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible Chairman of the Committee, John Gummer, Michael Kirkwood and manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the performance Sir Michael Bishop until his retirement on 23 May 2002.
The members of the Company.
Share ownership is encouraged together with equity of the Committee are all independent non-executive directors.
Norman linked incentives that help to align the interest of directors and executive Askew joined the Committee on 25 February 2003.
There were no management with that of the shareholders.
The policy is designed other changes to the composition of the Committee between the to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required, year end and the date of this report.
The Company Secretary acts as taking account of industry, market and country benchmarks and the secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman and Chief Executive may, Companys position relative to other companies.
The remuneration together with the Group HR Executive, attend and speak at meetings of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Board excluding the of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
non-executive directors within the overall limits set by the Companys Articles of Association and having regard to market practice.
The Committee met four times in 2002 and every member of the Committee attended each meeting.
Balance between performance related and non-performance related remuneration Terms of Reference There are four main elements of the remuneration package for Within the authority delegated by the directors, the purpose of the executive directors: Committee is: basic annual salary and benefits to assess and approve a broad remuneration strategy for the Group, annual bonus payments which cannot exceed 50% of base salary to determine short and long-term incentive pay structures for the share incentives Companys executive directors and executive management to ensure retirement benefits.
they are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions to the Companys overall performance.
Executive management includes The Committees aim is to provide a balanced package with both divisional managing and finance directors and senior head office staff.
fixed and variable elements, to ensure that an appropriate proportion to demonstrate that the remuneration of the directors and executive of executive directors remuneration is performance related.
management of the Company is set by directors who are independent The short-term and long-term incentive awards received by the of management and free from any business or other relationship executives are made relative to base salary and have been provided which could interfere with the exercise of their independent under plans which are outlined in the following pages.
In order judgement: that they have no personal interest in the outcome to have due regard to the interests of shareholders, the use of share of their decisions and will give due regard to the interests of incentives is considered to be an important part of the executive shareholders, the financial and commercial health of the Company remuneration package and aligns the interests of the executives with and to the comments of Investment Protection Committees those of shareholders.
including, for example, the Association of British Insurers 10 Kidde plc 2002 directors remuneration report continued The Company intends to keep its policy under review in light of the Matching Shares in respect of those Deferred Shares will proposed changes to UK and international accounting standards immediately lapse.
There are no other performance conditions.
Mr Harper purchased 63,977 Deferred Shares under the BIP Salary with a further 106,628 Matching Shares held in trust.
Mr Nicholas Base salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually by the purchased 35,942 Deferred Shares under the BIP with a further Committee.
Base salaries are benchmarked against data from selected 59,903 Matching Shares held in trust.
companies in the FTSE 250, primarily from the engineering and Share incentives manufacturing sectors, having regard to: The long-term incentive plans the Performance Share Plan and size turnover and the employee base the Executive Share Option Scheme use EPS as the appropriate complexity of the business performance condition.
The Committee did not consider the international dimension use of Total Shareholder Return TSR.
EPS was chosen for the market capitalisation.
following reasons its use aligns remuneration with business strategy and supports shareholder value, earnings performance The Committee also takes into consideration the particular skills has a direct influence on the share price, and it is easily recognised and experience which the incumbents bring to their roles.
internationally and understood by both shareholders and executives Fees non-executive directors within the Company.
The non-executive directors, excluding the Chairman and Deputy For both the Performance Share Plan and the Executive Share Option Chairman, receive an annual fee of 25,000 and an additional 5,000 Scheme, the performance period is the three financial years of the in respect of their chairmanship of Board committees.
The Chairman Company starting with the financial year in which the option or receives an annual fee of 150,000 plus 5,000 in respect of his award is granted.
The percentage increase in the EPS is measured by chairmanship of the Nomination Committee.
The Deputy Chairman comparing the EPS of the financial year of the Company immediately receives an annual fee of 45,000.
They are reimbursed for approved preceding the start of the performance period with the EPS for the expenses incurred in connection with their duties.
last financial year of the Company in the performance period.
Bonus It is the Companys policy not to allow retesting of options or A discretionary cash bonus of up to 50% of base salary is available share awards.
to the executive directors each year.
Performance targets include a combination of Group financial performance and personal targets The Company complies with the guidelines on dilution limits set by aimed at motivating participants to achieve key business objectives.
the Association of British Insurers, which regulates the number of The Kidde UK defined benefit Pension Plan provides that bonuses shares which may be made available to employees under long-term payable to all members of the Plan, including the executive directors, incentive schemes.
The Kidde UK Pension Plan is now closed to new Performance Share Plan members.
It is the policy of the Committee that any future executive The Plan allows the Company to grant participating individuals, directors, who are not existing members of the Kidde UK Pension including executive directors, awards over shares of up to 100% Plan, will not have bonuses which are pensionable.
of annual base salary in any year 200% of annual base salary Bonus Investment Plan BIP in exceptional circumstances.
Subject to the Companys code It is the policy of the Committee to encourage senior employees of practice on dealing in listed securities, awards will be made to purchase and retain shares in the Company.
The BIP allows in the period following the publication of the Companys preliminary participants, including executive directors, to defer 50% of their results.
Awards are subject to achievement of the required bonus after deduction of income tax which is used to purchase performance target and may be exercised between three and ten Company shares, known as Deferred Shares.
The shares purchased years from the date of award.
In respect of awards made in 2002, are then matched with a number of shares equal to the gross bonus the percentage growth in the Groups EPS over the fixed three-year invested, known as Matching Shares.
The shares are held in trust for performance period must be at least 4% per annum.
If the a period of three years from the date of award and will vest provided performance condition is not met, the award will lapse.
For that the participant remains in a participating companys employment EPS growth between 4% and 10% per annum, awards vest at the end of the three year retention period.
However, the participant may apply to withdraw the Deferred Shares The executive directors received an award under the Plan in 2002 from the trust at any time during the retention period, in which case, of 85% of salary.
Vesting is not subject to retesting.
Kidde plc 2002 11 The Committee has recommended to the Board that the Plan should All-Employee Share Schemes be amended by stating that the maximum awards to participants The Company operates a Savings Related Share Option Scheme in the under the Plan should be limited by reference to awards made during UK which enables eligible employees, including executive directors, to the same financial year of the Company rather than during the acquire options over ordinary shares of the Company at a discount of previous 12 months.
Rule 4.1 of the Plan currently provides that up to 20% of their market price, using the proceeds of a related save the value of shares subject to awards granted to a participant may as you earn contract.
In the USA, the Company operates an Employee not exceed 100% of the annual rate of the participants base pay Stock Purchase Plan ESPP which is a savings plan linked to the in any 12 month period.
It is proposed that this time limit should Companys American Depository Receipts ADRs.
Under the ESPP, be amended to refer to awards made in a particular financial year, participants have a right to purchase ADRs at the lower of the ADR prices as the current time limit has proved impractical to operate.
While at the start or end of each 12 month savings period, less a 15% discount.
the Committee would like to make awards under the Plan either The executive directors are not eligible to participate in the ESPP.
immediately or shortly after the publication of the Companys annual Shareholders are being asked to approve an all-employee Share results, this may not always be possible because of the operation Incentive Plan at the AGM on 29 April 2003.
Full details of this plan of close periods.
The substitution of a limit based on the financial are contained in the notice of AGM.
year would make it possible to make awards at any time during the year, regardless of whether the last award was made within the Retirement Benefits previous 12 months eg.
because the operation of a close period Mr Harper and Mr Nicholas are members of the Kidde UK Pension prevented an award being made immediately or shortly after the Plan.
The Pension Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, publication of results during the previous year.
defined benefit occupational pension scheme.
Pensionable earnings under the Pension Plan include base salary at 1 April plus the annual The proposed amendment is detailed in the notice of AGM.
average pensionable bonus over the rolling three year period to date.
Executive Share Option Scheme The Plans main features applicable to the executive directors are: The Company operates both an Inland Revenue approved share a normal pension age of 60 option scheme and an unapproved scheme on a global basis, under life assurance cover of four times base salary which selected employees, including executive directors, are eligible final pensionable salary is pensionable to be granted options over the Companys shares at the market price earnings in the 12 months prior to retirement at the time of grant.
Grants of options are normally made annually pensions payable in the event of ill health and the maximum grant permitted to a participant in any 12 month spouses and dependants pensions on death period is restricted to no more than two times annual base salary.
membership is non-contributory Options are normally exercisable between three and ten years from 2 a pension of rds of final pensionable salary at the 3 the date of grant, subject to the achievement of a performance normal pension date, or pro rated for an earlier retirement.
condition which is set by the Committee prior to the grant.
The performance condition relating to all options granted to date requires Members may also convert part of their pension into a lump sum cash that the percentage growth in the Groups EPS over a fixed three payment.
The pension of Mr Nicholas includes an unfunded benefit year performance period exceeds the rate of inflation over the same promise from the Company by reference to his salary in excess of the period by at least 3% per annum.
If the performance condition is not Inland Revenues earnings cap.
With the permission of the Company and the Trustees, a director For options granted in 2000, the performance target has been met can take early retirement at any time from age 50, with a reduced and the options will be exercisable from the third anniversary of the pension reflecting the shorter service period of the director.
pension is based on final pensionable earnings and pensionable service at the date of retirement.
It is the policy of the Committee not to make grants of awards to the same individuals under the Performance Share Plan in the same All pensions in excess of Guaranteed Minimum Pensions are year that options are granted under the Executive Share Option subject to contractual annual increases in line with the annual rise Scheme.
Accordingly, there have been no grants to the executive in the Retail Prices Index, up to a maximum of 3% in any one year directors under the Executive Share Option Scheme in the year to for pensions built up to 5 April 1997, and a maximum of 5% a year 31 December 2002. for service after this date.
12 Kidde plc 2002 directors remuneration report continued Directors pension entitlements paying them a sum equal to their salary and the value of their other benefits for the period of 12 months.
It is a condition of each service ADDITIONAL 2002 INCREASE IN PENSION ACCRUED TRANSFER TRANSFER TRANSFER contract that, if the Company terminates the employment of an CURRENT EARNED ENTITLEMENT VALUE VALUE VALUE NAME AGE 31.12.02 31.12.01 executive director other than because the Company is entitled to J M Harper 58 15,717 264,946 4,068,300 3,765,600 302,700 do so under the terms of the service contract, the director will be J E Nicholas 46 8,338 72,305 429,500 521,200 91,700 entitled to a sum equal to the salary which would have been earned between the date of actual termination and the earliest lawful None of the other directors are eligible for pension benefits.
termination date in the form of liquidated damages.
This sum shall The increase in the additional pension earned during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that would be paid each year on retirement at 60 be in full and final settlement of all claims other than any claim which based on service to 31 December 2002.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the Institute of Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 Retirement Benefit may be brought in respect of a statutory redundancy payment, share Schemes Transfer Values and by reference to market conditions at the date of valuation.
options or other share incentive schemes arising out of their employment or termination thereof except for salary and holiday accrued due.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graphs below show Kiddes TSR between listing on the London Non-executive directors Stock Exchange on 14 November 2000 and 31 December 2002, The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the relative to those for the companies in the FTSE 250 Index for the Company.
It is the policy of the Company to appoint non-executive same period.
This index has been chosen because the Company is directors for an initial period of three years.
They do not participate a member of the FTSE 250 and uses companies from this index for in any of the Companys annual or long-term incentive plans and other benchmarking purposes.
are not eligible for any pension benefits.
Policy on external appointments KIDDE TSR COMPARATIVE PERFORMANCE SINCE 14 NOVEMBER 2000 The Company recognises that, during their employment with Kidde DETAILED KIDDE TSR plc, executive directors may be invited to become non-executive FTSE 250 INDEX TSR directors of other companies and that such duties can broaden their 160 experience and knowledge.
Executive directors may, with the written 140 120 consent of the Company, accept directorships outside the Company, 100 except those that could conflict with the Companys business and 80 interests, waiving their right to any fees.
60 40 20 INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 0 NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC JAN FEB MAR APR MAY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV DEC The remuneration of the directors of Kidde plc for the year ended 2000 2001 2002 31 December 2002 is set out below.
No sums were paid in respect SUMMARY of compensation for loss of office.
Mr Harper and Mr Nicholas have rolling service 1 Highest paid director.
contracts with the Company dated 9 October 2000 which came into 2 Benefits comprise all tax assessable benefits arising from employment by the Company.
These include a fully force on 14 November 2000, the date the Company listed on the expensed company car, medical and permanent health insurance, life assurance and mobile telephone.
The contracts are terminable on 12 months 3 Benefits include use of a company car, fuel and medical insurance.
4 Fees comprise amounts paid to a third party, Citigroup, in respect of making available the notice by the Company or by the director.
The Company may services of Mr Kirkwood to the Company.
terminate the employment of the executive directors at any time by 5 Retired 23 May 2002.
Kidde plc 2002 13 DIRECTORS INTERESTS Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors holding office at 31 December 2002 1 JANUARY ACQUIRED 31 DECEMBER NAME 2002 ACQUIRED UNDER BIP DISPOSED 2002 in the share capital of the Company are set out below.
All of the interests are beneficial with the exception of 3,000 shares held Executive directors 1,3 J M Harper 220,323 1,665 170,605 392,593 by Mr Harper on behalf of a minor child.
Save as disclosed below, 2,3 J E Nicholas 95,000 95,845 190,845 none of the directors had any interest in any other securities of Non-executive directors the Company or any other company in the Group.
Sir Nigel Rudd 2,608,782 2,608,782 The Rt Hon J S Gummer M J Kirkwood 15,000 15,000 J W Poulter 11,000 11,000 1 These shares comprise: 63,977 Deferred Shares and 106,628 Matching Shares under the BIP.
2 These shares comprise: 35,942 Deferred Shares and 59,903 Matching Shares under the BIP.
3 Matching Shares are awarded conditional upon the Deferred Shares being retained in trust until 5 April 2005.
The only changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2002 and 4 March 2003 relate to the purchase by Mr Harper on 3 January 2003 of 235 shares for his PEP.
The Company has established a Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust QUEST and an Employee Benefit Trust EBT to operate in conjunction with its share schemes where appropriate.
As participants in the share schemes, the executive directors have a potential interest in any shares acquired by the QUEST and the EBT.
No options were exercised or lapsed during the year and no awards vested or lapsed during the year.
None of the other directors had an interest in any options or awards.
None of the terms and conditions of the share options or awards were varied during the year.
At 31 December 2002, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was nil % for shares awarded in June 2001 and 97% for shares awarded in November 2002.
The closing mid-market price of the Companys shares on 31 December 2002 was 70.75p and ranged from 58p to 95p during the year.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares on 14 November 2002, the date awards were made under the Performance Share Plan, was 65.5p.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 4 March 2003 and signed on its behalf by: J W Poulter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
