Directors Report on Remuneration The Remuneration Committee of the Executive Directors are broadly comparable to those awarded by other relevant companies.
The Remuneration Committee was established in November 1993.
Its principal function is to determine With the exception of Mr G E Haslam, noted below, remuneration policy and the remuneration packages of no Director during the year participated in any bonus the Executive Directors and senior employees.
Apart from this, participation in share option schemes was the only, but a significant, performance The Committee comprises Mr J R B Phillimore related element attaching to each Executive Directors Chairman, Mr P C Godsoe and Sir Alastair Morton who remuneration package.
are non-Executive Directors having no financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters to be decided, The Committees policy on granting options under, and no potential conicts of interest arising from crossthe Directors participation in, the share option schemes directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running is set out on pages 15 and 16. the business of the Group.
Non-Executive Directors The Combined Code The fees of the non-Executive Directors are determined The Combined Code referred to on page 9 contains three by the Board with the benefit of professional advice.
Principles relating to Directors remuneration, which have In deciding an appropriate level of fees for each been applied as noted in this Report.
The three Principles non-Executive Director, the Board considered the are amplied by 21 provisions with all of which the responsibility and time commitments taking into account Company complies and complied throughout the year.
the number of Board meetings, special meetings and the time required for reading Board and other papers plus the Remuneration Policy membership and chairmanship of the Audit Committee, Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination The Remuneration Committees objective is to provide Committee plus Sir John Cravens Chairmanship of to the Executive Directors the remuneration packages the Board, together with extensive overseas travel by all needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors non-Executive Directors on behalf of the Company.
of the quality required without paying more than is Directors Remuneration necessary for this purpose.
For the year ended 30 September 2002 the remuneration The Committee is aware what comparable companies packages of Directors were as follows: are paying and takes account of relative performance.
The Committee believes that the remuneration packages Directors Remuneration Director Salary Benefits Total for year Total for year 1 and fees in kind to 30.9.
Benets in kind comprised mainly the provision of a motor car for the 4.
Mr Godsoe was appointed a Director on 29 November 2001 thus his use of Executive Directors and the provision of private medical remuneration as Director in 2002 covered only the period from then insurance and, in the case of Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer, a childrens until the year end.
Mr Harper retired on 26 October 2002.
During the year Mr Haslam received no payment 2001: 82,000 6.
Although the Groups functional currency is US dollars the gures which is within the total disclosed on page 12 under his bonus scheme.
above are set out in sterling as this is the currency in which 3.
The gures shown for Mr Jonah relate only to his remuneration as a emoluments are predominantly paid.
He is an employee of Lonmin Plc, but is also the Chief Executive of Ashanti Goldelds Company Limited, which company reimburses Lonmin Plc all his other remuneration and his benets.
Service Contracts Mr Jonahs remuneration is referred to in Note 3 above.
Mr Jonah does not retain any fees in respect of non-Group Mr Haslam, Mr Farmer and Mr Robinson currently have directorships other than in relation to Ashanti.
Nor do service contracts which temporarily required two years Mr Haslam and Mr Farmer.
The Board believes that prior written notice of termination to be given to them.
directorships and appointments outside the Group can From 1 January 2002 the notice period has reduced and be appropriate if they help Directors gain additional will reduce by one calendar month immediately following experience or promote the interests of the Group as the expiry of each calendar month until 1 January 2003, a whole.
from which date 364 days prior written notice will be required to be given.
If notice were given prior to 1 January Pensions 2003 and the director concerned were not required to Mr G E Haslam, Mr I P Farmer and Mr J N Robinson are work out his notice period, his salary and the value of his members of The UK Lonmin Superannuation Scheme contractual benets would be paid in lieu.
Mr Jonah and which is a contributory final salary scheme established as Mr Ledger are entitled to 364 days notice.
Since the Board an independent trust which provides benets for has set as an objective that all Executive Directors should Directors and staff of Lonmin Plc.
The Scheme is fully have notice periods of 364 days or less, the Company does funded and normal retirement age for all members in comply and has complied throughout the year with the service at or after 1 April 1998 is 60.
The trust deed provision of the Combined Code in this respect.
Except requires members in service to make contributions to the during the temporarily extended notice periods and with Scheme from salary and the Company to make such the exception of Mr Ledger, there is no contractual contributions as are necessary.
The Company was provision for compensation to be paid to any Executive not required to make any such contributions during Director in lieu of notice.
The non-Executive Directors the year.
are each appointed for a xed period of three years, but subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of The Scheme is designed to enable all members to obtain Association for retirement by rotation and for earlier a good standard of benefit from secure and well managed cessation for any other reason.
No compensation is investments within the Inland Revenue maximum at payable to non-Executive Directors for loss of office, save normal retirement subject to their having completed for arrears of fees.
The Scheme, which is contracted-out of the State Earnings Related Pension Non-Group Directorships Scheme, complies with all relevant legislation, including Apart from Mr S E Jonah, no Executive Director holds the Pensions Act 1995.
Independent high-quality advice any executive directorship or appointment outside the is used in administering the Scheme and managing Group.
Mr G E Haslam is a director of Ashanti Goldelds the assets.
Company Limited and Furuya Metals Co Limited, Tokyo.
Pension commutation at retirement, in order that Mr Farmer is a director of the International Platinum participants may exchange part of their pension for a Association.
Mr Jonah is the Chief Executive of Ashanti, tax free lump sum within Inland Revenue limits, is and, apart from Ashanti group companies, is a director of permitted.
several non-Group companies and organisations.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 13 Directors Report on Remuneration In the event of death whilst in service a capital sum became members on or after 1 June 1989 does not apply equal to 4 x salary is payable together with a pension to a to Mr Farmer and Mr Robinson, each being members qualifying spouse or dependant of 66.66 per cent of the before that date.
It does apply to Mr Haslam and as a prospective pension which would become payable to the consequence he benets from an unfunded retirement member at age 60.
In certain circumstances where there benefit scheme.
are young children or children in full-time education Mr S E Jonah has a personal pension arrangement.
This is or vocational training an allowance to them would also a non-contributory arrangement funded entirely by the be payable.
Company which is reimbursed pursuant to an agreement In the case of death after retirement, a spouses pension with Ashanti Goldelds Company Limited.
No gures are of 66.66 per cent of the members pre-commutation therefore given below for Mr Jonah.
pension would be payable, revalued up to the time of Mr P J Ledger is a member of the Sentinel Mining Industry death.
If the members death occurs within 5 years of Retirement Fund established in South Africa which is a retirement, the balance of the 5 years unpaid pension dened contribution fund to which members contribute would also be payable.
7.5 per cent of their salaries and their employer contributes In the event of death after leaving service but prior to a total of 20.52 per cent towards the retirement, disability retirement, a pension to a qualifying spouse or dependant and death benets of the Fund.
Prior to his joining the UK Scheme on 12 November 1999 Pursuant to the requirements of the Pensions Act 1995, Mr Haslam was a member of The Lonmin Superannuation pensions accrued since 6 April 1997 are increased each year Scheme Overseas established in Jersey to provide once in payment by the lower of five per cent and the benets broadly similar to those under the UK Scheme for increase in RPI Retail Prices Index.
Pensions in excess of Directors and senior Group Executives employed any Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued prior to 6 overseas.
Mr Haslam maintains accrued benets as a April 1997 will increase by the lower of three per cent and deferred member in this scheme.
No element of a Directors remuneration package other The Inland Revenue Cap which restricts both pension than basic salary is pensionable.
and life assurance benets for higher paid individuals who Requisite information relating to pension benets is: Director Age Years of Increase in Additional Accrued at service at transfer pension pension 1 30.9.
02 value earned in entitlement 2 3 the year at year end 30.9.
The increase in transfer value represents the additional capital amount 2.
The additional pension earned in the UK in the year is that in excess of necessary, less Directors contributions, to fund the increase in the UK ination at 1.7 per cent.
accrued pension above ination that a Director would take with him 3.
The pension entitlement shown above is that which would be paid as part of the total transfer value if he were to leave the Company and annually on retirement at age 60 based on service to 30 September 2002. move his benets to another scheme.
The transfer value is not a sum due to the Director.
14 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 The pension entitlements shown exclude any benefit to his appointment as a Director.
His interests in the Plan which might be attributable to additional voluntary are disclosed on page 6.
No other Directors participate in contributions.
There is no undertaking for any other pension benefit to Set out on page 16 are the options held over ordinary be arranged for any Director by the Company.
shares of the Company by Directors.
Under The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 1994 and The Share Schemes Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme the exercise of As noted below options were granted to three Directors options granted before 1998 was subject to attainment of during the year.
Directors are encouraged to hold the the performance condition that, over a consecutive threeshares issued to them upon the exercise of options.
year period, the total return to shareholders was greater The Remuneration Committees policy when granting than the total return on the FTSE Actuaries All-Share options is to provide Directors and employees with an Index during the same period.
That condition was incentive to further the interests of the companies for attained during 2000 and the options became exercisable.
which they work and to permit them to benefit from an The exercise of options granted from 1998 under those improvement in the Companys performance to which schemes is subject to attainment of a similar performance they have thereby contributed.
condition, but the total return to shareholders must be greater than the total return on the Mining formerly The Board is mindful of the limited availability of Extractive Industries Sector of the FTSE Actuaries Share managers in the South African recruitment market and Indices.
The condition attaching to the options granted in the consequent need to provide existing management 1998 and 1999 was attained in 2001 and 2002 respectively with meaningful remuneration and incentive packages.
and the options became exercisable.
Further information Certain managers of Lonmin Platinum receive on the performance condition is given in Note 21 to the performance bonuses paid in cash by Lonmin Platinum.
No performance condition attaches to options In addition the Company has established an independent granted under the other schemes.
trust which purchased shares of the Company in the market in September 2001 and holds them for issue to For the 1999 grant the total return to Lonmin shareholders selected key management of Lonmin Platinum over a grew between 31 March 1999 and 30 March 2002 by five-year period under the Lonmin Plc Share Plan.
This is 196.40 per cent compared with 106.12 per cent growth in designed as an employee retention scheme and not an the total return on the Mining Sector of the FTSE incentive scheme.
Currently the trust holds 336,000 Actuaries All-Share Index.
ordinary shares of US$1 each.
For administrative and other Except under the savings related share option schemes and reasons the trust has not allocated shares outright to the Lonmin Plc Share Plan no options have been granted participants, but has granted options over 324,240 of with an exercise price at a discount to the market price at them for a token consideration of 0.01 per share.
The the time the exercise price was set.
trust has been funded by a loan from the Company of 3.7 million $5.3 million.
Mr P J Ledger was granted and No options were held by the non-Executive Directors.
exercised options under The Lonmin Plc Share Plan prior Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 15 Directors Report on Remuneration Number of shares Exercise Name of Date of Date from Expiry Options Exercised 1 under option Price Scheme Grant which Date normally first exercisable 1.10.01 30.9.
02 Date No of Exercise Market Notional 2 and of Shares Price Price Pre-tax 3 26.11.02 Exercise Gain Shares Shares of 1 of US$1 Pence Pence Pence I P Farmer 45,000 250 c 28.8.
The Share Option Schemes concerned are: 4.
The options of Mr Ledger are shown only as at 26 November 2002 since he was only appointed a Director on 21 November 2002. a The Lonmin Overseas and Associate Share Option Scheme 5.
All options were granted for no cash consideration.
b The Lonmin Share Option Scheme 1994 6.
Other than as disclosed above, no options held by Directors were c The Lonmin Executive Share Option Scheme formerly exercised or lapsed during the year or since.
The Lonmin Overseas and Associate Share Option Scheme 1994 7.
By way of comparison with the exercise prices, the middle market d The Lonmin Savings Related Share Option Scheme 1994. quotation for the Companys ordinary shares, as derived from 2.
The market price is the market price per share on the date of exercise.
the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, was 848.5p on 3.
The notional pre-tax gain is the difference between the market price 30 September 2002, as compared with the high and low quotations and the exercise price.
The total notional pre-tax gains made by for the financial year of 1275p and 710p respectively.
Directors during the year were 2,836,619 2001 : Nil.
16 Lonmin Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002
