13 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Results and dividend Based on the Boards confidence in Chairmans I am delighted to announce that we the Groups prospects and the greater traded strongly throughout the year Statement visibility of rail earnings following the and that our results are at the top end completion of the recent round of of market expectations.
All divisions rail franchising, we have announced a provided a healthy contribution.
commitment to increase our dividend by We have delivered 10% earnings 10% per annum for the next three years.
growth and increased the Group This reflects the Boards confidence in margin to 7.9%.
Revenue was 2.6 billion 2006: 2.5 Safety billion and normalised Group operating Safety continues to be of paramount profit was 205.6 million 2006: 184.8 importance to us.
After interest and the Groups saw two serious coach accidents, share of profits from associated one tragically involving the loss of three undertakings, normalised profit before lives.
Our condolences and thoughts tax was 177.0 million 2006: 156.1 remain with those families affected.
Normalised diluted earnings In our coach business, as with all per share from continuing operations our operations, our policy is one of were 83.9 pence 2006: 76.5 pence.
We are recommending a final dividend of 26.4 pence per ordinary share 2006: 24.0 pence, an increase of 10%, to be paid on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 25 April 2008.
Including the interim dividend, the proposed total dividend for the year is 37.96 pence 2006: 34.75 pence.
We have announced a commitment to increase our dividend by 10% per annum for the next three years.
This reflects the Boards confidence in the Groups future prospects.
David Ross Chairman 14 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Operations Our Spanish bus and coach operations Chairmans We have restructured our three UK traded well with passenger growth divisions into a single UK business.
Our acquisition of Continental This will enable us to put much greater Auto makes us the number one private continued focus on the needs of our customers operator of public transport services and be more responsive to new in Spain.
We are well on track complementary set of geographical to deliver the 11m of annualised routes and business segments, savings from this project and we are especially commuter buses and urban already seeing the benefits of a much transport, positions us very well for more integrated approach to product future growth and further market and service design and delivery.
liberalisation particularly in urban bus and rail.
The acquisition of Continental Our trains business has seen revenue Auto is the largest the Group has made growth of 11%.
We believe the addition to date and we are making good of National Express East Coast progress with the integration and are NXEC, the UKs premier railway on track to deliver the benefits and business, to our trains portfolio returns we announced at the time significantly strengthens our position of the acquisition.
in the key long distance market.
It is clear that there is an opportunity Our bus business delivered revenue to create value by developing closer growth of 7% and we are particularly relationships through greater pleased that the voluntary partnerships communications with our UK we have entered into with Centro in the customers.
We have started to roll West Midlands are already delivering out our masterbrand strategy across strong passenger growth on some all our UK operations enabling our of these routes of up to 10%.
We are customers to relate to the wide range already working on the next network of services that we offer, leveraging of services, which we expect to launch the greater awareness of the National in April this year.
Our Spanish bus Express brand.
We have begun Coach travel is the most environmentally to address a broader range of and coach operations friendly form of transport with the lowest opportunities to grow our top line traded very well.
carbon emissions of any motorised including events related activities.
Our coach business has had Our acquisition of Other sales and marketing initiatives another outstanding year, both on core are also starting to show real success Continental Auto makes scheduled routes as well as on new and growth.
In 2007 we ran a series products related to supporting events us the number one of marketing campaigns aimed purely at major venues.
Scheduled coach at our rail customers.
From a database private operator of revenue growth has been 6%.
of 150,000 customers we generated public transport In North America, our Business incremental profit of around 1m Transformation project is on track services in Spain.
representing a return on investment and will deliver significant efficiencies of 100%.
In 2008 we will broaden this and improved stability of earnings.
activity to NXEC, National Express This will make us the most efficient East Anglia NXEA, formerly one and competitive North American school Railway and coach customers, bus operation, with a goal to attract a combined database of over 2.3 million those school boards yet to outsource customers.
In November our focus their operations.
We remain on course on improving the quality of our services to offer school boards the best value was recognised when we won the and safest product in the market.
business to business category at the UK Customer Service Experience Awards, which identify and recognise industry leaders in customer service.
The award recognised the Groups efforts to increase customer satisfaction in every part of the business.
15 National Express Group PLC Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Outlook and current trading It is becoming clear that wider We believe the addition Over the last year, National Express recognition of the environmental of National Express has undertaken significant change credentials of public transport over to deliver a more customer focused East Coast, the UKs the car and the plane is contributing service culture, which has contributed to the increased use of our services.
premier railway to another year of passenger growth Businesses, as well as consumers, are for the Group.
Growing awareness business, to our trains becoming more focused on reducing of the positive environmental impact their carbon footprint for travel and we portfolio significantly of public transport, and population are developing a range of corporate growth within our core markets, strengthens our position products to encourage this.
continues to support long term in the key long With the changes in the Groups growth trends within our operations.
portfolio, I would like to thank all our distance market.
The acquisition of Continental Auto people for their efforts to deliver an and the award of the East Coast excellent set of results.
I also welcome franchise in the final quarter of 2007 those new employees who have reinforced our strong market positions recently joined us and thank those in the Spanish and UK markets.
who have left the Group during the Our diversified portfolio of transport year.
It is down to the efforts and activity provides robust cash flow, commitment of our people that we market leading margins and significant are able to further develop the Group opportunities for future growth.
and improve our customer offering Despite the current economic in the markets where we operate.
backdrop, all operations have started Board changes the year well and we have seen no Following a further strengthening of the adverse impact on current trading.
Board in October when Roger Devlin Our new dividend policy underlines was appointed as a Non Executive our commitment to delivering value Director, Sue Lyons retired in November for shareholders.
We remain confident after six years service as a Non about the Groups prospects for the Executive Director.
On behalf of the year ahead.
Board I would like to thank Sue for her invaluable contribution particularly in her role as Chairman of the Safety Committee.
In November Adam Walker, Group Finance Director, announced he would be leaving the Group after seven years.
Adam was promoted to the Board back in 2003.
He has made a significant contribution to the strategic development of the Group and overseen our entry into new markets such as Spain.
Adam will be leaving the Group on 26 March and the Board wish him well in his next role.
The recruitment process for a successor is well underway.
