qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 2 SUMMARY REVIEW OF THE YEAR Executive Chairmans Statement The company is refocused, with the prospect of becoming self-financing, and capable of funding further investment, particularly in profitable international territories.
2007 started with a good deal of promise.
The A year of two halves... economic environment was on an improving trend, enabling us to remove the last remaining market value reductions for our customers with unitised with-profits investments.
Over the first half of the year, we extended the Groups international reach by launching our first product into the Singaporean market, and built on our recently-established foothold in the German pensions market.
In the UK we were attracting record levels of new pensions business, consolidating our position as a leading provider.
We were also delighted to have secured the acquisition of two successful and profitable intermediary businesses the Sesame Group and Pantheon Financial representing sound financial investments as well as bringing us closer to the needs and aspirations of customers and professional financial advisers in their respective markets.
In contrast, the second half of the year could not have been more different, becoming extremely challenging for global economies in general, for financial services as a whole and for the ongoing advance of the Friends Provident Group.
qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 3 In the UK, the sight of thousands of customers becoming self-financing, and capable of funding further queuing to withdraw their savings from Northern investment, particularly in profitable international Rock remains an enduring image of the year, territories.
We now have a strategy that, we believe, epitomising the fallout from the sub-prime mortgage will achieve our aim of maximising value for our lending worries that surfaced in the US and shareholders, and we are determined to deliver reverberated around the globe.
Although its impact against this new strategy as swiftly as we can, helped to drag down stock values generally, financial recognising its urgency.
services were hit the hardest.
It is disappointing to The current structure of the Friends Provident Group report a 25% decline in the value of our shares over includes ownership of three businesses that now fit the year the first annual decline since the stock less comfortably within our new strategy.
F&C Asset Management, in which we hold a 52% Further disappointments were the termination of controlling stake, Lombard, based in Luxembourg, our merger agreement with Resolution plc and the and the more-recently acquired adviser firm, subsequent standing down of our Group Chief Pantheon Financial.
All three are very good Executive, Philip Moore.
This merger was absolutely businesses.
We are actively engaged with their the right strategy for our Board to pursue and would respective management teams to establish strategies have created significant long-term value for customers that maximise value for our shareholders while and shareholders alike.
The prospective merits of the minimising disruption to these businesses.
merger were validated by the subsequent bidding Dividend battle for control of Resolution.
Your Board is recommending a final dividend for Strategic review 2007 of 5.30 pence per share, which would bring The failed merger heightened media and market the total 2007 dividend to 8.00 pence per share, speculation regarding the Friends Provident Groups a 2% increase over 2006. future and, to restore certainty, we announced in Since our stock market listing in 2001, we have November our undertaking of a strategic review with increased the dividend to shareholders by around 2% the aim of maximising value for shareholders.
This each year, which is less than inflation and therefore root and branch review embraced every aspect of does not represent real growth.
After payment of the our business and, as a result, the Board concluded final dividend for 2007, we will reduce the overall cost that a significant change in strategic direction was of the dividend to a level that reflects the dividend the right way to create value in the Group.
paying capacity of the Life & Pensions business and We announced the new strategy at the end of January adopt a policy of growing the dividend in line with this year, together with an indication of the significant operating cashflow in future.
The Board believes that fall in profits expected for 2007, and both of these are this offers the prospect of dividend growth in real explained in detail over the following pages.
terms in the years to come.
The strategic review was necessary, albeit painful.
Board changes The outcome, however, repositions Friends Provident A number of changes to the Board were addressed very positively, such that we can have confidence in in our 2006 Report & Accounts.
The two subsequent its future.
It has enabled us to put in place a long term, changes were the appointment of Gerhard Roggemann sustainable, capital structure and dividend policy, as an independent director in June 2007, and the supporting the Groups further growth.
Not only will change of my own role to Executive Chairman until we be restructuring the company to reflect better its our new Group Chief Executive, Trevor Matthews, new shape and focus, but also we will rebuild our joins us, which is likely to be July this year.
structure of financial controls to ensure future Alison Carnwath will be leaving the Board at the management decisions can be taken with confidence.
conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
The company is refocused, with the prospect of 2 FP AnnRev 01-24. qxd:30349 Summary.
qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 4 SUMMARY REVIEW OF THE YEAR Alison has served on the Board since December 2002 and, notwithstanding her relocation to New York Financial Key Performance following her appointment as the Chairman of MF Global Indicators summary in July 2007, has continued to play a most effective part As part of the strategic review, a new range of in the Board's proceedings.
financial metrics has been introduced to measure Jim Smart, our Chief Financial Officer, has notified future performance.
These measures focus on the the Board of his intention to leave the company after Companys financial priorities these are profitability, our interim results in August 2008.
Jim had been cash generation, dividend paying capacity, expected to leave under the terms of our proposed shareholder value and financial strength.
merger with Resolution plc last year but, following the 2007 2006 termination of that merger agreement, he agreed to IFRS underlying loss profit remain with Friends Provident to help me lead our before tax -46m 400m strategic review.
The Board is enormously grateful to Shareholder cash generation 177m 340m Jim for his huge contribution to this review and for his ongoing commitment to help move this programme of Contribution from change even further forward over the coming months.
new business 206m 204m Internal rate of return I want to pay tribute to those directors who have left on new business 14.4% 12.7% us and joined us over the past year, for their significant contribution and commitment, and to thank all my Cash payback on Board colleagues for their ongoing support as we new business 9 years 9 years navigate the Group through this challenging period.
EEV underlying profit before tax 16m 509m We are also delighted to have recruited Trevor Pro forma embedded value 3,725m 3,660m Matthews to lead us forward from here.
Trevor is a natural leader with a profound understanding of the Group solvency excess insurance business, both internationally and in the UK.
capital resources 1.3bn 1.0bn His track record is outstanding, and his decision to join Dividend per share 8.00p 7.85p us is, in itself, an important expression of confidence IFRS underlying in the business and its new strategic direction.
dividend cover -0.2 times 2.3 times All those who work for the Group have been Total shareholder return -21.5% 19.0% tremendous, more than meeting the many challenges estimated throughout 2007 and maintaining the excellent service IFRS loss before tax from continuing operations levels that have become the hallmark of Friends is -113m 2006: 491m profit.
It is a sincere regret that a consequence of our strategic review is that there Dividend rises to 8p per share will be in the region of 600 fewer people employed We made an interim payment to shareholders of by Friends Provident over the next two years, and 2.70 pence per share last November.
The final we will do all we practically can to help and support dividend of 5.30 pence per share assuming it is those who are affected.
approved at our Annual General Meeting on 22 May 2008 will be paid to shareholders on 27 May 2008.
Finally, our Annual General Meeting is on 22 May 2008 and I look forward to welcoming all of you who are You can work out how much you will receive by able to attend.
In any event, may I encourage you all multiplying the number of Friends Provident shares to vote, online or by post, on the resolutions being put you own on 18 April 2008 by the final dividend of forward at that important meeting.
5.30 pence per share that we are recommending.
Sir Adrian Montague, Executive Chairman 3
