Group at a glance Revenue Year ended 31 December 2009 Energy 418.3m 1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2009 Winding specialist inserting copper coils into the stator 61.0m assembly of a Brush electrical turbogenerator Business description Average number of employees World number one independent supplier of turbogenerators and leading supplier Year ended 31 December 2009 of other electricity generating machinery, transformers and power infrastructure equipment, including aftermarket service capabilities.
Key strengths 3,558 Expertise to design and manufacture an extensive range of high quality, medium to high voltage generators.
Comprehensive and integrated aftermarket support to ensure individual packages Revenue by geographic location are tailored to meet customers needs and requirements throughout the operating % life of their equipment.
1 Europe 95% Long-standing relationships with UK and overseas electricity supply authorities, 2 North America 3% global oil companies and deep coal mine companies.
3 Asia 1% Transformer products in service with all UK energy supply authorities.
4 Rest of world 1% Strategically located around the world.
4 3 2 Sectors served Power generation plants, oil and gas, utilities, industrial, marine, rail, telecommunications, construction, commercial, military and aftermarket.
Products Power generation equipment including hydrogen-cooled generators, 4 and 2 pole 1 turbogenerators, combined cooled turbogenerators, synchronous motors, induction motors, submersible and traction motors, power management systems, excitation systems, generator control and protection panels, generator terminal cubicles, medium voltage and transit switchgear, power, system and distribution transformers Revenue by end market % and aftermarket servicing.
Major customers 1 Utilities 45% General Electric, Pratt & Whitney, Rolls-Royce, Scottish & Southern Electricity, EDF, 2 Aftermarket 16% Saudi Aramco, major oil and mining companies and other UK and overseas electricity 3 Oil and gas 14% distribution network operators DNOs.
4 Industrials 14% 5 Marine 6% 6 Other 5% 6 Energy businesses 5 Brush Turbogenerators 4 1 www.
com Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
hss-ltd. com Harrington Generators www.
co. uk See page 10 for Energy business review.
02 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Revenue Year ended 31 December 2009 Lifting 419.0m 1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2009 New Kurilpa pedestrian bridge 62.5m in Brisbane, Australia Business description Average number of employees Top three supplier worldwide for wire and wire rope and leading supplier worldwide Year ended 31 December 2009 of lifting fittings and blocks and custom engineered material handling products.
Key strengths Comprehensive and competitive range of solutions in steel wire, wire and fibre 2,886 rope and strand.
Technical expertise to support customers in demanding applications, training, installation and testing.
Revenue by geographic location Worlds leading supplier of accessories used in lifting and material handling % applications.
1 North America 45% Strategically located around the world.
2 Europe 44% 3 Asia 6% Sectors served 4 Rest of world 5% Onshore and offshore oil and gas, deep shaft and surface mining, petrochemical, alternative energy, general industrial and construction markets, fishing and marine, 4 3 infrastructure e. g. bridges and sports stadia and material handling industries.
Products Wire rope, fibre rope, wire, lifting hooks, connectors, clamps, hoist rings, blocks, 1 sheaves, material handling products, monorail systems, chain hoists and industrial 2 carts and trailers.
Major customers Global crane original equipment manufacturers OEMs, mining OEMs, major oil companies, global oilfield exploration and construction contractors, construction companies and lifting products distributors.
Revenue by end market % 1 Energy 41% 2 Industrials 36% 3 Mining 10% 4 Infrastructure 5% 5 Wire 4% 6 Marine 4% 6 Lifting businesses 5 4 Bridon 3 1 www.
com 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
See page 12 for Lifting business review.
Annual Report 2009 Melrose PLC 03 Group at a glance continued Revenue Year ended 31 December 2009 Dynacast 208.7m 1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2009 Optical pick-up component 21.3m manufactured for Blu-ray players Business description Average number of employees Global designer and manufacturer of precision engineered die-cast metal components Year ended 31 December 2009 and assemblies.
Key strengths Precision engineered die-cast zinc, aluminium and magnesium alloy components.
Revenue by geographic location Rapid prototyping.
1 Europe 38% Sectors served 2 North America 34% Automotive, telecommunications, consumer electronics, computing, healthcare 3 Asia 28% and construction.
Products 3 Automotive components, telecommunications and electronic components, 1 consumer products and die-casting machines.
Major customers Procter & Gamble, Valeo, Autoliv, TRW, Bosch, Apple, Motorola and Sony.
2 Revenue by end market % 1 Automotive 36% 2 Electronics and communications 27% 3 Healthcare 11% 4 Hardware 8% 5 Tooling 5% 6 Other 13% 6 Dynacast businesses 5 1 Dynacast 4 www.
See page 14 for Dynacast business review.
04 Melrose PLC Annual Report 2009 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information Revenue Year ended 31 December 2009 Other Industrial 252.5m 1 Headline operating profit Year ended 31 December 2009 Eurotunnel shuttle locomotive wheelsets 20.6m overhauled by Brush Traction Business description Average number of employees Truth US market leader in design and manufacture of residential and Year ended 31 December 2009 commercial window, storm and screen door hardware.
Harris Market leader in scrap processing, waste reduction and recycling equipment design, engineering, manufacture and servicing.
2,415 Brush Designs, manufactures and refurbishes rail locomotives, propulsion Traction systems, coaches and freight vehicles.
MPC Designs and manufactures engineered plastic injection-moulded Revenue by geographic location and extruded components and metal pressings.
% Logistex UK Designs and manufactures automated material handling solutions.
1 Europe 44% Weber US number one designer and manufacturer of high-end concealed 2 North America 55% Knapp appliance hinge mechanisms, spring loaded mechanisms and custom 3 Asia 1% electrical enclosures for ergonomic office furniture solutions.
Key strengths 3 Market leading design and engineering capabilities.
In depth aftermarket service supply capabilities.
1 Leading innovative product development and technology choice for customers.
2 Trusted long-standing quality brand names.
Sectors served Businesses serve a diverse range of sectors, including housing, construction, retail, scrap processing, fibre recycling, rail, automotive, consumer packaging, brewing, food distribution, power tools, industrial, medical, office furniture, storage, distribution and general engineering.
Revenue by end market % Products Window and door hardware: balers, shears, waste compactors and auto shredders: 1 Hardware 37% rail, vehicle and component manufacture and refurbishment: automotive trims and 2 Rail 13% mouldings, food packaging containers and transit trolleys, widgets for bottles and cans 3 Automotive 9% and sealing products: ergonomic office and desk equipment: and sortation, distribution 4 Industrials 9% and warehouse control systems.
5 Aftermarket 8% 6 Other 24% Major customers US hardware industry OEMs, waste and scrap processors, airports, postal distribution facilities, libraries, manufacturers and distributors in various industries and retailers.
6 Other Industrial businesses 1 Truth www.
com 1 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income Prelok www.
com and intangible asset amortisation.
com See page 16 for Other Industrial business review.
