River Tees River Wear NWG at a glance Northumbrian Water Group plc Northumbrian Water Group plc NWG owns a number of companies which, together with NWG, form the Group.
The largest of these companies, Northumbrian Water Limited NWL, is one of the ten regulated water and sewerage businesses in England and Wales.
The emphasis given to NWL, throughout this report, re ects its importance to the overall performance of the Group.
Northumbrian Water Limited NWL operates in the north east of England, where it trades as Northumbrian Water, and in the south east of England, where it trades as Essex & Suffolk Water.
Northumbrian Water currently provides water and sewerage services to 2.6 million people and Essex & Suffolk Water provides water services to 1.8 million people.
Water and waste water contracts NWG controls a number of special purpose companies which have water and waste water contracts in Scotland, Ireland and Gibraltar.
Other SA Agrer NV Agrer carries out project work in developing countries through a number of overseas aid funded agencies.
North east England Berwick Northumbrian Water provides water and sewerage services to 2.6 million people in the NORTH EAST AREA north east of England.
The Alnwick major population centres of Tyneside, Wearside and Teesside are in our area but we Kielder Morpeth also serve large rural areas in Northumberland and County Durham provision of waste Newcastle water services only in Hartlepool.
Hexham Gateshead Sunderland Derwent Durham Hartlepool Cow Green Darlington Middlesbrough 02 River Tyne Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009 NWG revenue m 7.3 39.8 Norwich Great Yarmouth Lowestoft 647.0 Barsham SUFFOLK AREA Southwold Walpole N Northumbrian Water Limited N Water and waste water contracts N Other Aldeburgh Colchester ESSEX AREA Abberton Clacton Langford Chelmsford Hanningeld Brentwood Southend Romford Basildon Barking Tilbury L Water and waste water contracts L Northumbrian Water Scientific Services L SA Agrer NV South east England Belgium Essex & Suffolk Water provides water services to two separate supply areas.
We serve a population of 0.3 million in our Suffolk area, which is mainly rural with the biggest towns being Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft.
Our Essex area, which has a population of 1.5 million, is part rural and part urban with the main areas of population being in Chelmsford, Southend and the London Boroughs of Barking and Dagenham, Havering and Redbridge.
Gibraltar 03 Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2009
