CHAIRMANS LETTER Dear Shareholder In 2009 your company came of age, capitalising on the potential created by your management team and the global market opportunity for Paces digital TV technology.
Paces performance over the last 12 months represents a significant achievement, where the management team delivered record results ahead of all expectations.
Pace is now working at a new level having achieved over 1bn revenues and 6.7% return on sales.
This success reects the capability and commitment of the entire Pace team and highlights the strong fundamentals it has built.
Over the last three years Pace has brought about transformational change, delivering both organic and non-organic growth.
The Group has built up a high quality and diverse set of customers and products.
We operate successfully across most major geographic markets.
This has translated into consistent profitability.
Pace has proven itself capable of identifying, investing in and delivering the new technologies needed by its operator customers to enable the delivery of TV-led home entertainment.
The technologies within our industry are evolving at an increasingly rapid rate, creating new product and customer opportunities for the business.
Today this revolves around high denition, personal video recording, hybrid and whole home platforms and already, for some, this will soon start to include new 3D services.
We are able to maintain ongoing investment in new creating a great place to work.
From a financial markets technology because of the work done to strengthen our financial position.
This means that Pace is at the forefront perspective, we have become a member of the FTSE 250 of change within the industry, leading in converged home and are a top five quoted company in the UK technology hardware sector by market capitalisation.
entertainment solutions and diversication opportunities through our growing Networks division.
At the same time we have optimised efficiency and taken advantage of our Following major improvements in financial performance over enlarged scale to ensure we fully deliver on our Vision of the past three years, on behalf of the Board, I commend Great products to our customers, every time.
In doing the management team and all our employees worldwide for this Pace has achieved a level of maturity in its operations their achievements and re-emphasize our confidence in their that should give you confidence in predictable future ability to take the Group forward as we enter a comparatively performance.
more mature and predictable phase of our development If you have any comments on my letter or indeed, any In recognition of our growth and long-term earnings part of the Annual Report, I would be delighted to hear potential, the Board introduced a progressive dividend policy from you either by writing to me at Pace or by email at in 2009.
I am pleased that your Board is recommending a mike.
final dividend of 1.0p per share, giving a full year dividend of 1.5p per share.
Yours sincerely Mike McTighe Our achievements were recognised through a number Chairman of awards, including a Queens Award for Enterprise in Innovation and a number of awards recognising the importance of Paces HR strategy in driving change and 2 March 2010 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 04 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW 2009 was a record year for Pace when we consolidated our global position and became a top two industry leader.
Through rigorous execution against our strategy, derived from our strong company culture, we quadrupled profits, grew revenues by 52% to 1.1bn and increased cash 95% to over 73m.
We improved our return on sales to 6.7%, so driving towards our 8% medium term goal.
Our strategic aim is to put Pace at the heart of convergence within the digital TV home.
In addition to our high denition HD and PVR leadership, we established Pace at the forefront of the new hybrid product category.
In the Americas we commenced deliveries of our first whole home solution for cable operators.
Whole home and hybrid, which combines broadcast and broadband content, are cornerstone technologies for the converged digital TV home.
We will start to launch 3D services with our customers during 2010: this is an exciting new TV viewing experience and we anticipate further product and technology developments so as to realise its full visual potential.
Our ability to innovate, together 2009 was not just about consolidating with an outstanding performance our leadership position: it was from our operations team, enabled also about creating a platform for us to ship an impressive 17.2m sustainable growth: we have been products to a global customer base developing our organisation, systems of over 100 payTV operators.
We and processes to further improve established ourselves as a major customer focus and enable faster player in the Americas growing our product innovation, while being more overall North American business efficient.
At the same time we have and making a strong entry into rmly established Pace India as a lowSouth America.
We became cost centre of engineering excellence.
Europes number one set-top It is now delivering complete product box supplier and a leader in high designs and new technologies to all denition.
We completed the parts of the Group.
integration of the Philips set-top box business acquired in spring We are experiencing the biggest 2008, renamed Pace France, change to TV since it was invented which is now a fully operational and with HD, PVR, on demand services, profitable part of the Group.
broadband, whole home TV and now 05 PACE PLC ANNUAL REPORT
