OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Revenue and operating pro t growth driven by an 8% increase in transaction volumes 10% on a like-for- 1 like basis 2 Operating margin 43% up from 42% last year UK and Ireland network expanded by 11% to 21,990 terminal sites Bill payment service launched in Romania Romanian terminal sites increased to 5,702 including 2,000 fully branded PayPoint sites PayCash launched allowing internet customers to pay in cash Announced Collect parcel delivery and collection joint venture with Home Delivery Network 3 Consumer satisfaction 98% 84% very satis ed CHAIRMANS STATEMENT David Newlands, Chairman of PayPoint, said In 2009, PayPoint continued to grow and was strongly cash generative.
Revenue, margins, pro ts and dividends increased.
Plans announced this time last year to increase the UK terminal estate were exceeded.
New terminals have continued to be rolled out in Romania, primarily for our bill payment service launched in August 2008 and for which we now have 14 clients contracted.
In February 2009, we announced a joint venture with Home Delivery Network, leveraging our existing retail network, to provide consumers with a more convenient solution for parcel delivery and collection.
This demonstrates the adaptability of our retail network to provide new services.
For the current financial year, trading since the period end is in line with the companys expectations.
We expect further growth in the UK by increasing market share in bill and general payments, mobile topups, and ATMs.
We plan to add a further 1,500 terminals during the course of the current financial year, to continue to capitalise on these opportunities.
In Romania, we plan to install a further 900 PayPoint terminals.
These will complement the existing terminal base and provide further national coverage for our bill payment network.
We expect losses in Romania in the first half of the year but the business should be trading pro tably by the end of the financial year.
net, which is trading pro tably, should see growth accelerate in the latter part of the year, as sales leads are converted into live merchants and PayCash starts to become more widely accepted.
Collect, our parcels joint venture, will require investment during the year to brand the network, install electronic signature pads, develop the billing platform and market the service.
Whilst the prospects for this new business are excellent, it is anticipated that it will be loss-making this year.
Cash generation should remain strong, although the decline in interest rates in the second half of last year to their current historically low levels, is likely to reduce severely interest income in the current year.
We are con dent that further opportunities remain for future growth through market share gains, new initiatives and new products.
Like-for-like basis adjusts the comparative period to 52 weeks and excludes Collect 2.
Operating margin is calculated as operating pro t as a percentage of net revenue 3.
