02 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2009 Pearson at a glance Pearson is an international company with market-leading businesses in education, business information and consumer publishing.
We are 37,000 people in more than 60 countries, helping children and adults to learn, business people to make informed decisions and readers of all ages to wind down or wise up with a good book.
Overview People Proportion of Pearson revenue Education 27,000 Pearson is the worlds leading education company.
We provide learning materials, US 16,400 technologies, assessments and services 67% UK 3,000 to teachers and students of all ages and in more than 60 countries.
North America 2,470m RoW 7,600 International 1,035m Professional 275m Business information 4,800 The FT Group provides news, data, comment and analysis to the international business community.
It is known around US 1,900 the world for its independent and 15% UK 2,000 authoritative information.
FT Publishing 358m RoW 900 Interactive Data 484m Consumer publishing 4,200 Penguin publishes more than 4,000 fiction and non-fiction books each year US 1,900 on paper, on screens and in audio formats UK 800 for readers of all ages.
It is one of the worlds leading consumer publishing 18% RoW 1,500 businesses and an iconic global brand.
Penguin 1,002m Introduction Our strategy Our performance Our impact on society Governance Financial statements Section 1 Introduction 03 i Learn more at www.
com aboutus Businesses Markets We are a leading provider of educational For some years, Pearson has been material and learning technologies.
a leader in education, with leading We provide test development, processing positions in large developed markets and scoring services to educational and local publishing centres in more institutions, corporations and professional than 30 countries.
More recently we have bodies around the world.
We publish across significantly accelerated our international the curriculum under a range of respected expansion, investing in new education imprints including: Scott Foresman, operations in countries including China, Prentice Hall, Addison-Wesley, Allyn and India, Southern Africa and Latin America.
Bacon, Benjamin Cummings and Longman.
i See more on page 16 and at pearsoned.
com FT Publishing includes: the Financial Times The Financial Times has a network of and FT. com: a range of specialist financial approximately 600 journalists in 40 magazines and online services: and countries and a unique model of producing Mergermarket.
distinctive newspaper editions for Europe, the UK, the US, Asia and the Middle East.
Interactive Data is Pearsons 61%-owned FT. com, with nine million unique users provider of specialist financial data to and 1.8 million registered users around financial institutions and retail investors.
the world, makes the FT even more widely available.
The FT Group also has a stake in a number of joint ventures, including those with FTSE International, Vedomosti in Russia, BDFM in South Africa and a 50% stake in The Economist Group.
i See more on page 24 and at ft. com Penguin operates around the world through Penguin combines a longstanding a series of connected national publishing commitment to local publishing with houses.
It publishes under a number of wella determination to benefit from its known imprints including Putnam, Viking, worldwide scale, a globally recognised Allen Lane, Hamish Hamilton, Berkley, the brand and growing demand for books Penguin Press, Puffin and Dorling Kindersley.
Its largest businesses are in the US, the UK, Australia, Canada, Ireland, India, South Africa and New Zealand.
i See more on page 28 and at penguin.
