At a glance Pub restaurants Frankie & Bennys brings together Mexican for fun, for fantastic food, Garfunkels a truly great name Really great pubs are timeless, the best of classic American and for an amazing atmosphere in British and world cuisine.
Everybody knows what their Italian style and cuisine, offering traditional home-style dishes from Founded in Londons West End perfect pub looks like.
For us its Little Italy combined with popular Chiquito offers great value, in 1979, Garfunkels has become an ideal place for people who like American dishes that always authentic Mexican food in a fun legendary!
It embraces the to get together, eat, drink and talk in a relaxed friendly atmosphere.
provide great value for money.
and lively venue, with fantastic concept of being all things to all Latin American music.
What more people and epitomises all that is The kitchen buzzes with bustling do you need for a great night out?
But dont take Each of our pubs has its own our word for it, relax and enjoy.... style and personality, and youll activity as the chefs prepare dishes from our broad menu The dcor draws inspiration from always find a warm welcome, pizza, pastas, burgers, grills Mexican architecture and Latin Offering something for everyone, ageless interiors, fine British and other favourites while, in style.
Some sites have a rustic the menu is a fantastic mix of the pub food, a large variety of typical stateside fashion, service and relaxed feel while others best of British and international great real ales and fine wine at Frankie & Bennys is second demonstrate the buzz and cuisine.
From the tempting and great coffee.
graphic energy of contemporary Thai Green Curry to the Giant Mostly set in beautiful rural or Mexico City.
Enchilada everything has been Settle into a cosy booth to enjoy chosen because we just love semi-rural locations, each pub delicious, perfectly cooked and The menu offers traditional the taste.
Our favourites are the has a local feel and many are classic Fish & Chips and Cottage set in intriguing buildings with filling food while enjoying a casual Mexican, including nachos, family meal or a catch up with burritos, enchiladas and our Pie true British classics.
We dont friends and observe the clatter signature sizzling fajitas, as well want all our pubs to look and feel and chatter of the open kitchen as favourites from North of Our salad bar has become the same instead we preserve and the familiar classic 50s and the Border burgers, salads famous.
With a delicious range of the character of the building, 60s soundtrack playing in the and steaks from the grill.
We fresh salads and prepared dishes which after all was what attracted background.
The restaurant walls specialise in Mexican beer and and dressings available all day, us to the pub in the first place.
are filled with family snapshots fantastic cocktails to ensure you can choose from a single visit and memorabilia showing life every meal is a fiesta.
or opt for the Unlimited Salad Bar We open all day, and you can pop on the lower east side of the and make as many visits to the in for a fresh coffee, a pint of real Chiquito is open seven days a salad bar as you wish.
ale, glass of wine or some honest Big Apple, helping you into a New York state-of-mind.
week for lunch, lazy afternoons home cooking at any time.
The and lively evenings, so whether Principally located across range of beers available changes Frankie & Bennys provides a fun youre out shopping, meeting Central London, each Garfunkels frequently and seasonal and local and friendly atmosphere for all to friends after work or planning restaurant offers a place to relax specials mean the menu also enjoy delivering fantastic value, a party its the only place to be!
and take a break from the offers new choices alongside great food and brilliant service.
Each trusted favourites each time you visit.
Trading in the UK for over 20 restaurant has a loyal following First opened in 1995 in Leicester, years, Chiquito continues to of visitors, local residents and Frankie & Bennys has become attract a broad mix of young workers who have been eating at Theres friendly, engaging service adults, couples, teenagers, Garfunkels for years.
Its as much from the moment you arrive, one of the best known casual dining brands in the United families and large parties.
about the experience as the ensuring that all your needs are Kingdom, and trades successfully More than 60 leisure, retail tasty food, and you wont be taken care of.
We hire people who in leisure and retail locations, and stand-alone sites cover disappointed in either!
genuinely like people and enjoy being there for our customers, stand-alone sites and at five the United Kingdom with more airports.
The estate comprises development planned for the Garfunkels continuing popularity and have the flair to operate their almost 200 restaurants spread years ahead.
means expansion is still on the own business within our Group.
menu after over 30 years of across the country from Aberdeen to St Austell.
Our latest restaurant We believe that really great pubs opened on Tottenham Court will never go out of fashion, and Road, Central London, in 2009, that opportunities to expand in and offers the same friendly the sector are available for welcome and broad menu in a experienced operators with the warm contemporary setting, just right offer for customers.
In 2007 The Restaurant Group bought what you need after a hectic shopping trip in the West End or Brunning & Price, an awardthe perfect way to complement a winning pub business.
Continued success blending the expertise that means a healthy appetite Brunning & Price brings with for growth with more sites our own resources, ideas and earmarked to open in experience, we will develop our Central London.
pubs business and aim to open three or four new sites a year going forward.
02 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 42 TRGs Concessions division has a market-leading reputation for developing partnerships to deliver catering solutions that meet the needs of our clients and their customers.
1 34 Currently operating more than 50 outlets in the UKs busiest 48 airports, other transport locations and shopping centres, we have almost 20 years of experience providing hospitality to the travelling public.
Our specialist operating knowledge and 24 44 flexibility ensures successful 18 performance across our diverse 41 brand portfolio, covering a wide range of popular categories 19 including table service, counter 93 service, sandwich shops, pubs and bars.
To meet client needs we deliver existing TRG brands, create Scotland 42 South East 93 Midlands 44 bespoke concepts or establish 23 Frankie & Bennys 34 Frankie & Bennys 33 Frankie & Bennys partnerships to franchise brands 07 Chiquito 12 Chiquito 08 Chiquito from third parties as appropriate.
07 Garfunkels 21 Pub restaurants 03 TRG Concessions Building on our track record of 05 TRG Concessions 26 TRG Concessions North West 48 innovation, partnership and Northern Ireland 1 London 24 Frankie & Bennys performance ahead of sector 01 Frankie & Bennys inside the M25 41 10 Chiquito growth will ensure we remain 11 Frankie & Bennys 06 TRG Concessions Wales 18 a market leader in this 06 Chiquito 08 Pub restaurants 10 Frankie & Bennys 14 Garfunkels exciting sector.
03 Chiquito North East 34 06 Pub restaurants 05 Pub restaurants 24 Frankie & Bennys 04 TRG Concessions 09 Chiquito South West 19 East 24 01 TRG Concessions 12 Frankie & Bennys 13 Frankie & Bennys 06 Chiquito 02 Chiquito 01 Garfunkels 02 Pub restaurants 07 TRG Concessions Growing brands nationwide The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2009 03
