The group at a glance Since listing on the London Stock Exchange 10 years ago we have grown into a global operation, developing a balanced and attractive portfolio of businesses.
Our markets range from developed economies such as the USA to fast-growing developing markets such as China and India.
Key facts 2 Contribution to group EBITA 2009 200 210 million 1 More than 200 brands Total volume of lager sold Latin America 28% owned hectolitres Europe 22% North America 14% Africa and Asia 15% South Africa 21% North America Overview Key local brands Further information MillerCoors is a joint venture with Molson Blue Moon: Coors Banquet: Coors Light: Turn to page 20 to Coors Brewing Company, formed in 2008 Fosters: Henry Weinhards: Icehouse: read our detailed by bringing together the US and Puerto Keystone Light: Killians: Leinenkugels: Operations review.
Rico operations of both companies.
MGD64: Mickeys: Miller Chill: Miller Genuine Draft: Miller High Life: Miller Lite: Milwaukees It is the second-largest brewer in the Best: Molson Canadian: Old English: Sparks United States with nearly 30% of the and Steel Reserve.
Further facts Our brands are exported to Mexico and Canada, where some are also produced MillerCoors operates eight major breweries, under licence.
and as at 31 March 2009 had 8,643 employees.
MillerCoors will be headquartered in Chicago, Illinois from mid 2009.
Latin America Overview Key local brands Further information Our primary brewing and beverage Aguila: Atlas: Balboa: Barena: Club: Club Turn to page 12 to operations cover six countries across Colombia: Costea: Cristal: Cusquea: read our detailed South and Central America.
These Golden Light: Imperial: Pilsen: Pilsener: Operations review.
are Colombia, Ecuador, El Salvador, Pilsen Callao: Pilsen Trujillo: Poker: Port Honduras, Panama and Peru.
In each of these countries we are the Further facts number one brewer by market share.
17 We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola 3 Total number of breweries Company in El Salvador and Honduras, and for Pepsico International in Panama.
16 3 Our regional office is located in Bogot, Total number of bottling plants Colombia.
24,793 4 Total average number of employees 1 Volumes are defined in the Definitions section on page 156.
2 The group at a glance SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Europe Further information Overview Key local brands Turn to page 16 to Our primary brewing operations cover 10 Arany szok: Dorada: Dreher: Gambrinus: read our detailed countries.
These are the Czech Republic, Grolsch: Kozel: Lech: Peroni: Peroni Nastro Operations review.
Hungary, Italy, Poland, Romania, Russia, Azzurro: Pilsner Urquell: Radegast Birell: Slovakia, Spain Canary Islands, The ari: Timisoreana: Topvar: Tropical: Tyskie: Netherlands and Ukraine.
Ursus: Zolotaya Bochka and Zubr.
In the majority of these countries we are Further facts the number one or two brewer by market share.
23 3 Total number of breweries We also export significant volumes to a further eight European markets of which 15,987 the largest are the UK and Germany.
4 Total average number of employees Our regional office is located in Zug, Switzerland.
Africa and Asia Overview Key local brands Further information In Africa, our brewing and beverage 2M: Balimi: Bluetongue: Carling Black Label: Turn to page 24 to operations cover 14 countries with a further Castle Lager: Castle Milk Stout: Chibuku read our detailed 19 covered through a strategic alliance with sorghum beer : Club: Club Pilsner: Eagle Operations review.
We also have associated clear sorghum beer : Fosters: Haywards: undertakings in Kenya and Zimbabwe.
Indus Pride: Kilimanjaro: Knock Out: Laurentina: Maluti: Manica: Mosi: Ndovu: In most of these countries we are the Ngola: Nile Special: Raiz: Royal Challenge: number one brewer by market share.
Safari: Snow: Stone: St Louis: Tusker and We bottle soft drinks for The Coca-Cola Zorok.
Company in 20 of our African markets, Further facts 13 of which are through our alliance with Castel.
41 3 CR Snow, our partnership with China Total number of breweries Resources Enterprise, Limited, is the largest brewer in China while SABMiller 14 3 India is the second-largest brewer in India.
Total number of bottling plants We have an operation in Vietnam, a joint 13,841 venture in Australia, and export significant 4 Total average number of employees volumes to South Korea and Taiwan.
Regional offices are located in Johannesburg and Hong Kong.
South Africa Overview Key local brands Further information The South African Breweries is our original Brutal Fruit: Carling Black Label: Castle Turn to page 28 to brewing company and South Africas Lager: Castle Lite: Castle Milk Stout: Dreher: read our detailed leading producer and distributor of Hansa Marzen Gold: Hansa Pilsener: Redds: Operations review.
We also export our brands for distribution Further facts across Namibia.
7 Our soft drinks division is South Africas 3 Total number of breweries leading producer of products for The Coca-Cola Company.
7 3 We also have hotel and gaming interests Total number of bottling plants through Tsogo Sun, the largest hotel and gaming group in South Africa.
12,184 4 Total average number of employees Our regional office is located in Johannesburg.
3 The number of breweries and bottling plants relates to subsidiaries only except MillerCoors.
4 See note 6 to the consolidated financial statements on page 87.
The average number of employees relates to subsidiaries only except MillerCoors.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2009 The group at a glance 3
