Directors report Business review Our highlights of the year Shareholder information Company directory This report contains forward-looking statements.
These have been made by the Associated British Foods plc directors in good faith based on the information available to them up to the time Registered office Weston Centre Our highlights of the year of their approval of this report.
The directors can give no assurance that these 10 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QY expectations will prove to have been correct.
Due to the inherent uncertainties, Company registered in England, number 293262 including both economic and business risk factors underlying such forward-looking Company Secretary information, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied Paul Lister by these forward-looking statements.
The directors undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, Registrars and transfer office future events or otherwise.
Equiniti Aspect House Spencer Road Lancing BN99 6DA Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Bankers Barclays Bank plc Acquisition of the Group revenue Adjusted operating profit Lloyds Banking Group plc leading Iberian The Royal Bank of Scotland plc sugar producer, 9.3bn 720m Brokers Azucarera Ebro Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited One Cabot Square London E14 4QJ Up 12% Up 8% Sale of Polish Panmure Gordon & Co sugar business Moorgate Hall 155 Moorgate London EC2M 6XB Restructuring of Timetable US packaged oils Adjusted profit before tax Adjusted earnings Interim dividend paid 3 July 2009 business new Final dividend to be paid 8 January 2010 per share joint venture, Stratas Annual general meeting 4 December 2009 655m Interim results to be announced 20 April 2010 57.7p Zambian cane sugar Website Up 4% expansion completed www.
co. uk Up 5% capacity doubled Design and production 35 Communications Investment in Photography Chinese beet and Dividends per share Net investment in Igor Emmerich cane sugar Louisa Parry capital expenditure and Mike Abrahams 21.0p Enzyme capacity acquisitions less disposals Bill Robinson investment in Print Up 4% 832m Finland completed This report has been printed on revive 50:50 Silk paper.
This paper is made from pre and post consumer waste and virgin wood fibre, Yeast and yeast independently certified in accordance with the Forest Stewardship Council FSC.
extracts plant under It is manufactured at a mill that is certified to ISO 14001 environmental Net debt Operating profit construction in Harbin management standards.
The pulp is bleached using an elemental chlorine free process.
The inks used are all vegetable oil based.
New Primark stores 999m 625m Printed at St Ives Westerham Press Ltd, ISO 14001, FSC certified in UK and Spain and CarbonNeutral and first openings Up 13% in the Netherlands, Germany and Portugal US Private Placement Profit before tax Basic earnings per share secures long-term non-bank finance 495m 45.5p before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, profits less losses on the sale of PP&E, inventory fair value adjustment and exceptional items.
Down 6% Up 1% before amortisation of non-operating intangibles, profits less losses on the sale of PP&E, inventory fair value adjustment, profits less losses on the sale and closure of businesses and exceptional items.
Contents Directors report Associated British Foods is a Business review IFC Our highlights of the year 2 Our group at a glance diversi ed international food, 4 Chairmans statement 6 Operating review 24 Financial review ingredients and retail group Directors report with sales of 9.3bn, and Governance 26 Corporate responsibility 28 Board of directors 96,000 employees in 44 30 Corporate governance 42 Remuneration report 48 Other disclosures countries.
52 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements 53 Independent auditors report We aim to achieve strong, Financial statements sustainable leadership positions 54 Consolidated financial statements 54 Consolidated income statement 55 Consolidated balance sheet in markets that offer potential 56 Consolidated cash ow statement 57 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense for pro table growth, and deliver 58 Signi cant accounting policies 64 Notes forming part of quality products and services the financial statements 107 Company financial statements 112 Progress report that are central to peoples lives.
Shareholder information IBC Company directory Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2009 1
