Scottish and Southern Energy 67 Annual Report 2009 Remuneration Report At a Glance What are the Principles of the SSE Remuneration Policy?
The core principles of the companys remuneration policy are to: k attract and retain Executive Directors who are able to run the company effectively for the benefit of shareholders, customers and employees k adopt a competitive and practical approach to overall remuneration which meets the expectations of shareholders k reinforce the culture and teamwork required to deliver the long-term growth and sustainability of the business, and hence base salaries for Executive Directors are set at or below the relevant market median What is SSEs Total Remuneration Policy?
Summary of Total Remuneration Policy Fixed Variable Base Salary Short-term Annual Long-term 3 years Pension Final Salary Annual Bonus Plan maximum 100% of salary with Performance Share Plan PSP 75% paid in cash and 25% deferred in shares future performance over 3 years Benefits in Kind BIK Assessed against corporate financial performance 50% linked to relative FTSE 100 TSR, 50% car, private medical and team and individual operational measures adjusted annual EPS growth RPI 3%-9% Minimum Shareholding requirement equal to 100% Base Salary Base Salary BIK Pension Bonus PSP What was each Component of the Remuneration?
Target 36% 13% 18% 33% Stretch 27% 9% 26% 38% The bar chart shows the four elements of total remuneration with each element shown as a proportion % of total remuneration.
Base salary includes 1% benefits in kind a car allowance and private medical plan.
Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level ie 50% base salary and, for the PSP, an assumption that 62.5% of shares under award will vest.
Stretch performance is based on a bonus of 100% of base salary with demanding targets being met.
PSP is calculated based on 150% of salary.
The pension element is the average of each Executive Directors present value of providing a single year of pension.
What was on the Remuneration Committee Agenda for 2008 09?
Meeting Regular standing items Other agenda items May Approval of: Performance Share Plan New Awards: Update on UK current and future remuneration Performance Share Plan Vesting Awards: Annual governance and remuneration trends.
Bonus Awards: Directors Remuneration Report Review of Performance Share Plan targets.
November Executive Directors and Chairmans remuneration review.
Review of Performance Share Plan TSR FTSE 100 Update on UK Executive Director market remuneration trends.
Review of SSE Group-wide proposed salary increases.
Review of Committee effectiveness March Establishment of Bonus performance targets.
Initial review of market comparison companies for remuneration benchmarking.
Market update on Performance Share Plan usage.
Report on Dilution effects of Share Placing.
Remuneration Governance and Trends update.
