Durex Scholl footcare Group Group sales sales 42% 22% Durex has been making condoms of the highest Through in-depth consumer insight with an quality for 80 years and continues to strengthen innovative approach to foot health and wellbeing, its position as global market leader.
In recent years, grounded in science and knowledge of the the brand has been expanded to provide products mechanics of the foot, the Scholl footcare range such as lubricants and vibrators that are designed to addresses five key types of foot conditions to help enhance consumers sex lives and sexual wellbeing.
people improve their overall comfort and wellbeing.
Durex condoms Foot skin conditions With about 35 per cent value share of the global branded For conditions such as dry, hard and cracked skin, corn, condom market, making it the number one condom brand callus and blister, the product range includes Scholl Cracked in the world, Durex condom sales continue to perform Heel Repair Cream with a new formulation which contains strongly in all markets with global sales growth for the year Active Repair K for stimulating skin cell regrowth, Scholl 2008 09 at 5.5 per cent in 2008 Durex sales grew at twice Deep Moisturising Cream and Scholl Clear Gel Blister and the rate of its major competitors.
Durex Play lubricants Musculoskeletal conditions A key part of the Durex brand, our range of lubricants Caused by inherent malfunctions in the feet and body has been extended this year to include Durex Play O, for example, arch problems and heel pain.
Products a stimulating gel for women.
Durex Play 2in1 Massage include Scholl Party Feet and the recently launched Mousse and Durex Play 2in1 Massage Melts have been Scholl Biomechanics range.
successfully rolled out across global markets.
Foot environment conditions Durex Play vibrators Caused by body functions or activities odour, hot and Our range of personal vibrators is designed to help cold feet, as well as tired and aching feet.
The product people have happier, healthier and more fulfilling sex range includes the newly launched Scholl Deo-Activ Fresh, lives.
Our most recent addition is the Durex Pure Fantasy, part of our odour control range, and Scholl Flight Socks.
which is designed as a sleek, gimmick-free product.
Virus and fungus conditions For conditions such as warts, verrucas and athletes foot, the product range includes Scholl Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover and Scholl Athletes Foot Cream.
Nail conditions Discoloured toenails is a problem addressed by Scholl Nail Brightening System Perfect Nail Treatment, a revolutionary product with a three step approach to reducing discolouration, smoothing and conditioning toenails.
1 Sales by geography from 5% Americas 19% head to toe Asia Pacific 76% Products featured opposite: 1 Durex Avanti Ultima 2 Scholl Party Feet 3 Mister Baby Pasta Protettiva nappy changing cream Europe 4 Paramol tablets 5 Durex Play 6 Scholl footwear 7 Scholl Nail Brightening System 8 Full Marks solution 9 Scholl Orthaheel insoles 10 Scholl Deo-Activ Fresh foot gel 11 Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream 12 Mister Baby Biberon Mamma nature feeding bottle with a special teat which simulates the breast 13 Durex Play Ultra 14 Durex Play O 15 Durex Play 2in1 massage melts 1 By location of assets.
02 03 Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2009
