Report of the Directors Overview Operational highlights In 2009 we made good progress in challenging market conditions.
Volumes picked up and market shares improved through the year.
Our solid financial performance along with bigger innovations, better execution and a move to a stronger performance culture give us a firm foundation for the future.
Key facts Financial Leading global positions in 7 categories 3.
5% Products sold in more than 170 countries underlying sales growth 891m spent on R&D worldwide Underlying volume growth of 2.3% accelerating 163,000 employees at the end of 2009 through the year Turnover of 39.8 billion 20 nationalities among our top tier managers Underlying operating margin up from 14.6% to 14.8% 89m invested in community Cash flow from operating activities up by 1.4 billion programmes worldwide Total shareholder return ranking up from 9th to 5th Earnings per share of 1.21 The Unilever Group First quarterly dividend of 0.195 payable March 2010 Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast moving Selective acquisitions including TIGI and Baltimor consumer goods.
We aim to meet everyday consumer needs for nutrition, hygiene and personal care with brands and services that help people to feel good, look good and get more out of life.
Unilever is a global business which by the end of the year was generating more than half of its turnover in developing and emerging markets in Asia, Africa, Central & Eastern Europe p16 and Latin America.
Unilever N. V. NV is a public limited company registered in the Netherlands.
It has listings of shares and depositary receipts for shares on Euronext Amsterdam and of New York Registry Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
Unilever PLC PLC is a public limited company registered in England and Wales.
It has shares listed on the London Stock Exchange and, as American Depositary Receipts, on the New York Stock Exchange.
The two parent companies, NV and PLC, together with their Case study: TIGI group companies, operate as a single economic entity the Unilever Group, also referred to as Unilever or the Group.
NV The cutting edge and PLC and their group companies constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting consolidated accounts.
The purchase of professional hair products business TIGI marked a return to strategic acquisitions, further strengthening Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever Group are presented our brand portfolio.
by both NV and PLC as their respective consolidated accounts.
The TIGI range, including Catwalk, S-Factor and Bed Head, is a premium salon range that complements our existing daily hair care products.
Its strength in styling and its fashion and beauty expertise will also help fuel innovation for our existing hair brands.
Underlying operating margin is operating margin excluding the impact of RDIs restructuring, business disposals and other one-off items, see page 46.
2 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Social Environmental 2 billion 1 85,000 consumers worldwide use a Unilever product on tonnes of palm oil sourced sustainably via any day GreenPalm certificates 133 million people reached by Lifebuoy handwashing Around 15% of our tea sourced from Rainforest Alliance programmes since 2002 Certified farms globally 15 million people in 3 million households in India provided Around 430,000 climate-friendly HFC-free ice cream with safe drinking water through Pureit freezer cabinets purchased since 2004 4 4% of our products in line with internationally accepted 41% reduction in CO from energy per tonne of 2 guidelines for saturated and trans fat, sugar and salt production over the period 1995-2009 N early 17 million school meals delivered to 80,000 65% reduction in water per tonne of production children in 2009 through our partnership with the World over the period 1995-2009 Food Programme 73% reduction in total waste per tonne of production 4 5,000 women entrepreneurs reach 3 million consumers over the period 1995-2009 in 100,000 Indian villages with Unilever products 11 years as sector leader of the Dow Jones 9 % reduction in total recordable accident frequency Sustainability Indexes rate in 2009 p18 p20 Case study: Foodsolutions Case study: Comfort Salt reductions Water ways Unilever in the UK is supporting government efforts to reduce It is a challenge to develop ways levels of salt in food consumed both in and out of the home.
to maintain business growth in the laundry category while Our brand reformulation programme means that within retail reducing the impact of water use.
and the catering sector through Unilevers Foodsolutions business, approximately 80% of our products meet the Food More water is used in the rinsing than in the Standards Agency 2010 salt reduction targets.
To tackle this, our Comfort in Unilever Foodsolutions One Rinse fabric conditioner has been formulated UK we have reduced so that much less water is required per wash salt levels in Knorr to rinse the detergent from clothes.
It has been soups by 25% and launched in Vietnam, Indonesia and Brazil, and in sauces by 27%.
is expected to be rolled out to more countries during 2010.
It will be independently assured and reported in our online Sustainable Development Report 2009 at www.
