Annual report and financial statements 2009 Directors report Market overview Market overview Market overview The Weir Group PLC Financial The global economic downturn and The North American upstream market The original equipment power market associated decline in commodity prices experienced reduced activity with lower continued to be buoyant in Asia, but Operational excellence This map is illustrative, but not fully definitive of our locations.
resulted in difficult market conditions demand for natural gas.
At the mid-year, depressed elsewhere.
The strong Asian Calendar in 2009.
While commodity production rig count had reduced by around 50% market has been driven by Chinas volumes were lower early in the year before starting to recover in the second nuclear new build.
New coal and nuclear there was notable improvement in the half.
Significant downstream project plant delays in Europe and North America second half supported by investment in opportunities were driven principally by have resulted in increased potential for Asian infrastructure.
service and life extension projects.
Ex-dividend date for final dividend 5 May 2010 Record date for final dividend 7 May 2010 Weir Minerals is the global leader in the Weir Oil & Gas designs and manufactures Weir Power & Industrial designs, Shareholders on the register at this provision of slurry handling equipment pumps and ancillary equipment for manufactures and provides aftermarket date will receive the dividend and associated spare parts for abrasive global upstream and downstream oil and support for specialist and critical-service high wear applications used in mining gas markets and provides substantial rotating and flow control equipment, in as well as in the niche oil sands and flue aftermarket service and support activities.
the main, to the global power sector.
Products Upstream operations specialise in highThe division includes valve operations, a Annual general meeting include pumps, hydro cyclones, valves, pressure well service pumps and related specialist pump business and substantial 12 May 2010 fide-watering equipment and wear flow control equipment along with repairs, service and aftermarket operations and resistant linings.
Investment in materials, parts and service of pressure control and is one of only a few businesses globally technology and engineered hydraulics rotating equipment.
Downstream focuses capable of providing specialist valves into Final dividend paid ensure world class performance.
The on design and manufacture of centrifugal the nuclear islands of third generation 3 June 2010 division is present in key mining markets, pumps, mainly for the refining industry.
Facilities are including South and North America, Principal operations are in North America, located in Europe, North America, China, Australia and Africa.
Europe and the Middle East.
Middle East, India and South Africa.
Facts and figures Facts and figures Facts and figures The Weir Group is well established in all three of our 2009 revenue by division No.
of people c1,900 chosen markets: Minerals, Oil & Gas and Power.
of businesses 9 Minerals 2009 order input 718m 2009 order input 305m 2009 order input 266m 59% 2009, the Group has been focused on worldwide operational Addressable market 2.7bn Addressable market 1.6bn Addressable power market 2.3bn Oil & Gas excellence, which has enabled us to manage through the 22% Power & Industrial downturn and to help our customers do likewise.
Operational 17% Other Major customers Major customers Major customers excellence will continue to underpin our strategy for growth 2% Anglo American BJ Services British Columbia Hydro & Power Authority going forward.
BHP Billiton BP CNPEC & CNEIC, China Newmont Cal Frac Department of National Defence, Canada Customer focus is a precondition for sustainable growth.
Going forward, we Rio Tinto Halliburton EADS Eurocopter France will be prioritising customer focus and customer relationships through our three Shell Linde Impianti Italia EDF principal drivers of growth.
Innovative action to develop our product portfolio cautionary statement Siemens Corporation Neste Oil Iberdrola will be targeted at meeting specific customer needs.
A collaborative mindset This annual report contains forward-looking Syncrude Canada Schlumberger LISCO Iron & Steel Company statements with respect to the financial will allow us to work together across the Group and in partnership with our Vale Inco Superior Well Services Loftyman Engineering condition, operations and performance of customers.
Through our global capability, we will use our geographic footprint Vendanta Group Trican Oilwell Services Scottish & Southern Energy the Group.
By their nature, these statements to best advantage to ensure we get closer to existing and new customers.
Xstrata Weatherford Tennessee Valley Authority involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ materially from Designed by Design Motive those anticipated.
The forward-looking Printed by Royle Print statements reflect knowledge and information It is important that our annual report is produced in an environmentally available at the date of preparation of this responsible manner, including the sourcing of materials.
The annual report is printed in the UK by Royle Print Ltd, a Carbon Neutral printing company, annual report and the Company undertakes using vegetable-based inks.
no obligation to update these forward-looking The material is Revive Pure Uncoated which is certified as 100% recycled by statements.
Nothing in this annual report the Forest Stewardship Council.
The printer and paper manufacturing mill both should be construed as a profit forecast.
have ISO 14001 accreditation for environmental management.
Registered office & company number Valves and slurry pumps Weir Gabbioneta process pumps Weirs excellent technical service With an extensive, successful On site at Weir Minerals Chile, Reducing component travel Part of Minerals fide-watering range, Power & Industrials service Clydesdale Bank Exchange feature in Goldcorps Mexican destined for Russias Tartarstan helped Peak Golds New South track record of hydro work in the who were recently awarded a distance by 94% and set up the patented GEHO APEXS skills have seen them extend 20 Waterloo Street Penasquito project which will be region which is expected to refine Wales mine increase throughput UK, our power business is seeing new maintenance contract with times by 42% gave Weir SPM power saving pump moves large their geographic reach with Glasgow G2 6DB the worlds largest gold and silver up to seven million metric tons of and reduce costs with a mill liner similar ongoing demand for Minera Escondida, the worlds the operational edge to win volumes of abrasive, corrosive a multi-million dollar contract Scotland mill in the northern hemisphere.
the Groups manufacturing slurries at high pressures.
on a natural gas platform in Registered in Scotland excellence award.
