Group at a glance Our business Our focus Our business is divided into two geographical divisions: Europe, which covers business segments in the UK and Ireland, France, the Nordic region and Central and Eastern Europe: and North America, which consists of the North America plumbing and heating businesses namely Ferguson and Wolseley Canada.
As at 31 July 2009 the Group had approximately 51,000 employees and operated in 27 countries.
North America plumbing and heating Ferguson is the leading distributor of plumbing and heating supplies to professional contractors and the second largest distributor of pipes, valves and ttings in the US.
As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,228 branches and 17,402 employees.
Wolseley Canada is a signi cant player in wholesale distribution of plumbing, heating and ventilation products.
As at 31 July 2009 the business had 225 branches and 2,487 employees.
Revenue split by region UK and Ireland Central and Eastern Europe Wolseley UK and Ireland is one of the leading 7% distributors of heating and plumbing products to the Nordic region professional market and a major supplier of building 14% materials.
As at 31 July 2009 the business had 1,643 North America branches and 11,673 employees in the UK and Ireland.
plumbing and heating 45% 14 billion Total Group Revenue France Nordic region 15% DT Group is a leading distributor and retailer of building materials in the Nordic markets.
Stark and Beijer are market leaders in Denmark and Sweden respectively, UK and while Starkki is the second largest brand in Finland.
Ireland As at 31 July 2009 the Nordic region had 296 branches 19% and 6,749 employees.
Wolseley is the worlds largest specialist trade distributor of plumbing and heating products to professional France contractors and a leading supplier of building materials to the professional market.
Primarily we purchase preWolseley France is made up of Brossette, which is the assembled products such as plumbing supplies, heating second largest distributor of plumbing and heating and ventilation equipment, building materials, industrial equipment in France, and Rseau Pro, which is an pipes, valves and ttings.
These products are then integrated distributor of heavyside building materials in delivered to our branches or our regional distribution France.
The business also has an active presence in centres for onward sale to customers against orders the French timber and timber-derived products market.
Goods are either collected by our As at 31 July 2009 the business had 776 branches and customers or delivered to their site.
Wolseley supplies a wide range of customers operating in different industry sectors that range from the individual plumber or builder through to national contractor chains Central and Eastern Europe and house builders, including large industrial and Central and Eastern Europe is made up of the plumbing commercial organisations.
Our primary customer focus is and heating businesses located in Switzerland, Austria, on professional contractors who work with households, the Netherlands, Italy, Luxembourg and Denmark.
governments, property developers and industrial buildings At 31 July 2009 the region had 226 branches and or in the repair and maintenance of existing premises.
2 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our strengths Our key achievements The following strengths and key competitive advantages Continuing to drive performance are common to our businesses: In the year ended 31 July 2009, we have announced restructuring actions which are expected to deliver annualised bene ts of 431 million.
We will continue to lower the cost base but without losing sight of the need Fundamentally attractive to position Wolseley strongly for the upturn.
Alongside business sector pro tability, the delivery of strong cash ow is also important.
Despite the signi cant reduction in trading Whilst the construction industry operates in a cyclical pro t this year due to market conditions operating manner correlating directly with economic output, we cash ow was down only 5 per cent at 1,200 million believe that the long-term drivers for house building and 2008: 1,262 million.
In the year ended 31 July 2009 construction are positive in all of the regions in which challenging targets for working capital have been exceeded Wolseley operates.
Ageing populations, as well as an and across both continents actions have been taken to ageing housing stock, in Europe and North America reduce capital expenditure and dispose of non-core assets indicate that demand for new housing and remodelling and businesses.
should remain strong over the long term.
Financial restructuring complete In addition to the actions outlined above, in April 2009 we successfully completed a 1 billion capital raising Scale advantages in the form of a share placing and rights issue.
We also arranged a 1 billion multi-currency committed two-year We believe that scale advantages such as the forward start debt facility.
This signi cantly extends our Groups distribution network utilisation and sourcing debt maturity pro le and reduces any re nancing risk in the activities are key competitive advantages and period to 1 August 2011, when the facility commences.
Historically the Group Both the above actions have strengthened our capital base has achieved higher returns where it has consolidated to create a more stable position from which we can take its position, built strong local brands and a critical mass advantage of any recovery in our markets.
which delivers signi cant cost and scale advantages.
Future focus on our core businesses We believe that signi cant shareholder value can be generated through an even greater level of focus on the Groups core businesses.
During the year we have identi ed a future focus on North America plumbing and heating, UK and Ireland, France, Nordic and certain Strong local brands and knowledge Central and Eastern Europe regions which present the best opportunities for return on investment in the longer term.
We have a track record of building strong trading brands in local markets.
We believe that the skills Exit of Stock Building Supply and strategic and commitment of our employees are a signi cant review of Central and Eastern Europe competitive advantage.
We believe that local knowledge of market dynamics and customer needs is essential, In May 2009 we announced the exit from Stock Building as is retaining and motivating strong and successful Supply Stock, our US building materials business.
leadership teams who can drive the future growth This business has been severely affected by the US of the business.
The Group now owns a minority shareholding in Stock through a joint arrangement, with the majority holding owned by Gores Group LLC, an American private equity investor.
This transaction gives our shareholders an opportunity to participate in the long-term value potential of the Stock business whilst ensuring deconsolidation of Stocks operating Strong business model losses and conserving cash.
Over several years we have invested in large distribution Following a strategic review during the financial year centres, particularly in the US, which enable us to of Central and Eastern Europe, Wolseley has determined purchase in bulk from suppliers, to better serve to focus on those constituent countries where it has built customers by reducing delivery times, improving ll suf cient scale, established leading market positions and rates and increasing the availability of products, and can deliver an appropriate financial return.
Accordingly, to manage inventory more ef ciently.
The distribution the Group has decided to retain a presence in Switzerland, network also facilitates cost reduction in the supply Austria, Luxembourg, Denmark, Holland and Italy.
chain, more ef cient establishment of new branches and quicker integration of acquired companies.
Wolseley plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2009
