68 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 At Aviva we believe that corporate responsibility CR means We also report our perform ance using the HRH Prince of Wales taking positive action, treating our colleagues, customers and Accounting for Sustainability A4S connected reporting suppliers with respect, applying consistently high standards in framework see page 74, a methodology that integrates everything we do and having a constructive role in the financial and non-financial data to provide a comprehensive communities in which we operate.
As well as running our picture of our performance.
business responsibly we also work to influence sustainable We were one of the first companies to help develop the behaviour among our customers, suppliers and the companies framework and have incorporated it in our Annual Report and in which we invest.
Last but not least, CR is about taking a Accounts since 2007.
By reporting the links between proactive approach towards the shared global challenge of sustainability, financial performance and strategic direction climate change.
more explicitly the framework increases our understanding and The report that follows contains a summary of the progress the visibility of sustainability issues.
We have found that it has and performance of our CR programme in 2009.
A detailed helped our finance and sustainability teams to work together review is available online at www.
com corporate more effectively, identifying cost savings as well as providing responsibility reports clear disclosure to investors.
This year we have extended the use of the framework further by adding customer and community Highlights from 2009 include: investment indicators.
Executive directors remuneration based on financial Bringing CR into the Boardroom outcomes and targets related to customer advocacy and Aviva Investors has taken a leading position in encouraging employee leadership and engagement global companies to enhance their governance and Extended our reporting of key performance indicators transparency in CR reporting.
In 2008, Alain Dromer, Chief using Accounting for Sustainabilitys connected Executive of Aviva Investors, called on all stock market listing reporting framework authorities to make it a requirement that companies: Established long-term carbon reduction target consider how responsible and sustainable their business Launched Street to School global community programme model is, and Included in some of the worlds leading indices and put a forward looking sustainability strategy to the vote benchmarks at their AGM Strategy and governance In November 2009 Aviva announced plans to put our CR Report By acting responsibly for the long term in how we do business to a separate shareholder vote at the 2010 AGM.
We are the we will meet our ambition to provide prosperity and peace of first company in the UK and the first financial institution in the mind to our customers.
world to take this proactive step.
We hope that this will This is our core purpose applied irrespective of whether encourage other companies to bring CR issues to the heart economic conditions are favourable or challenging.
Our global of the boardroom and engage openly and transparently with business strategy has stood Aviva in good stead to manage the stakeholders on sustainability issues.
risks and uncertainties experienced through the downturn in the worlds economy while preparing for recovery and long-term Business ethics growth.
Our people strategy and our CR strategy play an We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our important part in this, in maintaining our reputation as a principles in our business ethics code.
This stipulates fairness, preferred employer and responsible corporate citizen, in honesty and transparency in all we do.
Everyone at Aviva has a managing our resources and in reducing costs.
part to play in upholding our standards and we raise awareness Directing our approach is our Board CR Committee.
of these responsibilities through our induction programmes and Established in 2006, the Committee is chaired by Carole Piwnica acceptance and sign-off of the code by all staff.
and comprises our Chairman, our CEO and three non-executive directors.
It meets four times a year to review Group CR strategy Financial crime and policy and assess regional performance against consistently Our financial crime policy reinforces our zero tolerance applied Group key performance indicators KPIs.
It also reviews approach and ensures that risks relating to fraud, money Group functions within Aviva that contribute to our global CR laundering, market abuse and bribery and corruption are programme.
In 2009 our global procurement activities were adequately controlled.
We provide mandatory computer-based presented to the Committee and in 2010 it will receive an training as part of our procedures for combating market abuse update on our customer programme.
Executive directors and insider trading, money laundering and fraud.
In 2009 we remuneration is based on a combination of financial outcomes enhanced our bribery and corruption controls and rolled out along with targets related to customers, employees and a worldwide training programme for employees.
The Committees report can be found on We encourage our employees to raise any concerns they page 98. might have through Right Call an Aviva-wide malpractice Our CR Advisory Group supports and advises on the reporting service.
This enables all employees to report any management and implementation of the global CR programme.
suspicions or concerns in a confidential manner for independent Reporting to the Executive Committee through the Group HR investigation.
In 2009, 67 incidents were recorded across the Director, it includes Group CR specialists, regional CR directors group.
All cases were referred for independent investigation and HR directors who work together to adopt and refine CR with 51 reaching conclusion and 16 cases currently remaining strategies, assess progress, identify actions that need to be under investigation.
taken and embed our programmes in different parts of the Our people business.
In addition, the Aviva plc Board receives an annual Delivering on our strategic plans and commitments requires update on CR strategy, activities and progress.
Our CR strong leadership and the energy, dedication and belief of all programme is also featured regularly on the agenda at executive our employees.
Over the past three years we have built a strong management committees and regional performance against global human resources function to lead our cultural Group KPIs is reviewed quarterly.
Corporate responsibility 69 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information transformation.
We have a clear purpose to drive a talent 76% 2008: 74% with eight business units achieving 100% leadership and culture-led transformation to deliver exceptional participation.
Senior management pay continues to be linked business performance.
We have approached this by to the survey results through clear benchmarked targets on implementing strategies designed to: leadership and engagement.
Encourage talented people to join Aviva and stay Visibility of our survey results has increased with most team Match the right people to the right roles and take action managers receiving their own localised team results.
Senior where there are gaps leaders are also engaged, taking the time to speak to employees Empower people to be the best they can be about the survey results, sharing their personal reflections and Build pride in Aviva taking direct questions on the survey outcomes.
For every survey completed we gave a donation to our new Street to School We will do this by focusing globally on: charity programme raising 37,000 for Save the Children Developing leaders capable of winning for Aviva in our in India.
chosen markets We invested in an online planning tool to help teams record Embedding the One Aviva, Twice the Value culture and monitor action plans arising from the survey results.
We will Building engagement and commitment by living the share progress on these plans at several stages before the next employee promise survey.
In 2010 we will produce a global results booklet Strengthening our CR performance by engaging employees providing our employees with a clear picture of what we have and influencing our communities and stakeholders done well, where we can improve and the steps we will be Making it easier to work by simplifying and fide-cluttering taking to address their concerns.
HR tools and processes Strengthening our leadership capability Building strong global HR and CR functions.
During 2009 we continued our twin-track approach to developing leadership capability.
We ran co llective, regionally Locally, the use of global tools and One Aviva processes based summits for our top 500 leaders focused on our One supports the delivery of our business strategies.
Aviva, Twice the Value vi sion.
A continuation of the culture Our employee promise change started in 2008, these events have helped to increase We want every employee to be able to say At Aviva I am the resilience of our senior leaders, improve understanding of recognised for who I am and my contribution matters.
This is the internal and external brand and create a global identity.
We the cornerstone of our employee promise, developed after have designed a new approach to individual development that extensive research and consultation with our people on what seeks to strengthen leadership capability by focusing specifically matters most to them at work.
Associations with global partners By implementing One Aviva we are well on the way to including The Centre for Creative Leadership, INSEAD and becoming a global brand recognised wherever we operate.
For FranklinCovey are providing innovative methods that enhance example, in 2009 we reached a key milestone in the UK when the quality and variety of development opportunities available.
Norwich Union completed the name change to Aviva.
It is vital For 2010 we have already committed to bring the senior leaders that we take our employees with us by inviting them to together under the banner of Vision into Performance to question, discuss and co-create the future.
To support our line strengthen the day-to-day actions being taken to achieve managers in leading their people on the brand journey, we our vision.
organised a series of This Is Our Story cinema events, featuring Talent management the experiences of employees in different parts of Avivas Our Talking Talent programme has been running for two business.
Managers were equipped with practical tools to help years and Aviva now has a consistent method for assessing them to be effective in bringing to life the behaviours asked of individuals' performance and long-term potential.
used at all levels and is providing excellent visibility of the talent We want to create an employment brand that attracts and within our business.
retains the best talent and differentiates Aviva as an employer Recruiting and retaining the best people in an increasingly of choice.
Over the last 18 months we have introduced new competitive market is a strategic priority for Aviva and we have management and leadership programmes to nurture talent and launched a new website www.
com careers to showcase create proactive dialogue with leaders and their teams.
New this career options across our worldwide markets.
The site describes year is the Learn Your Strengths interactive tool, taken up by what it is like to work at Aviva, with video profiles of employees, more than 7,000 employees.
We also enhanced our induction information on our culture and values, career management programme and created recognition schemes, including insights and an overview of our hands-on approach to CR.
Spotlight and Aviva Achievers, which give employees credit for Diversity, equality and human rights exceptional performance.
Avivas diversity programme promotes a fair and respectful We are changing the way in which services are delivered to culture in which differences are valued.
Our policy and practices employees and a wide range of supporting tools and materials are aligned with United Nations Universal Declaration of Human are now available to all on our global intranet, Aviva World, Rights and International Labour Organisations core labour which is fast becoming our first port of call for information.
Gaining a detailed understanding of diversity issues is Aviva World includes news features and forum sites, it gives crucial in bringing our employee promise to life.
To this end we employees worldwide the opportunity to learn more about have refreshed our training, beginning with a virtual conference different businesses, discuss issues and get to know each other.
in which external speakers and our HR specialists and CR team Listening to our employees gave their insights.
We will continue to focus on key diversity We rebranded our annual employee survey in 2009 and challenges in 2010. included new questions to reflect the areas our people said Within our senior management group, representation of were important.
An extensive communication programme was female colleagues was maintained at 22% in 2009.
We were implemented in the lead-up to the launch of the Employee recognised in The Times Aurora Where Women Want to Work Promise survey and our overall participation rate increased to 70 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Top 50 list in 2009 and featured in Cranfield Universitys study Economic citizenship education for teenagers of women in the boardroom.
Our chief marketing officer, Paying for It www.
uk launched by Aviva in Amanda Mackenzie, was named in The Female FTSE Report as 2007, continued to take economic citizenship teaching into one of 100 Women to Watch in 2009.
Our employee groups, schools up and down the country with the help of over 100 including the Aviva Womens Network and Pride Aviva, are specially trained Aviva volunteers.
Using specially tailored firmly established.
They have evolved from small beginnings resources available online for all schools to access, classes to become thriving networks, hosting events and contributing address issues of financial and social importance, such as support for local community projects.
This year, we significantly housing, the environment and health.
improved our position in Stonewalls Workplace Equality Index, The Chance to be Chancellor competition was run achieving 54th position, compared to 78th in 2008.
We are in conjunction with The Times as part of the Paying for It the only insurer to be included by Stonewall in the top 100 programme.
It offers engaging activities to help young people employers in the UK, and Pride Aviva also received special find out more about the current economic challenges facing the recognition as a star performing employee network group.
country and act out the role of the Chancellor in delivering their vision for the economy.
Community investment Aviva Canadas Community Fund As a responsible business, we are committed to helping address The Aviva Community Fund gives members of the public the challenges facing people and society.
Globally, we invested opportunity to turn great ideas into action to benefit their over 8.0 million in 2009 2008: 9.6 million, in line with our local communities.
Launched in October, a unique website, strategic focus to support community and charitable initiatives www.
org enables Canadians to register in education, life trauma and financial literacy.
We encourage their ideas with accompanying photos or video.
Special outreach employee volunteering in support of these areas as part of efforts were made to raise awareness of the new fund to personal development and our people can apply for up to three charities and not-for-profit organisations and approximately paid volunteering days per year.
Nearly 9,000 staff took up the 8,000 schools, colleges and universities were contacted across opportunity in 2009, resulting in a total of 79,900 volunteering the country.
Through various forms of communication including hours, an increase of 18% on 2008 67,700 hours.
We report social media sites, the people who submitted the ideas the impacts of our activities against the London Benchmarking encouraged as many people as possible to vote for their idea.
Group model and have developed tools to help our businesses More than 2,000 ideas were registered and an impartial panel around the world capture information on the impact of their of judges awarded a total of $500,000 to eight winning entries, investments in the communities they serve as well as employee announced in January 2010.
From coast to coast, ideas ranged time and cash donations.
from building playgrounds for children, driving awareness We continue to support humanitarian aid through our of environmental programmes and providing services for Oxfam 365 partnership, which helps to equip Oxfam with the at-risk youth.
resources and materials to respond to emergencies as soon as they happen.
Our employee groups also link up with Oxfam Taiwan typhoon to raise awareness of key issues and in March our Womens Typhoon Morakot, which hit Taiwan in August, resulted in over Network match-funded donations made by employees to 400 deaths in the country.
Aviva in Taiwan raised funds through Oxfams Yes We Can campaign.
This was in support of employee donations to World Vision and employees were given Oxfams work to change attitudes towards women in Nepal up to two days leave to help those affected by the typhoon.
and South Asia and create a fairer society.
A dedicated helpline was established to speed up claims and In 2009 we launched Street to School, our five-year global affected customers were offered a three-month deferral on charitable initiative, which aims to get children and young their premiums.
people off the street and into education.
Working with leading Podari Zhizn charities and experts, and supported by our employees and Our people in Russia volunteered their time and money to customers, together we will champion the needs of street support Podari Zhizn, a charity that helps children suffering from children in the communities in which we live and work.
By funding the charity, instead of subscribing to School has already been launched in the UK, Turkey and to the tradition of buying gifts for clients during holiday periods, India, and will gradually be adopted in every country in the funds raised to date have provided a new ventilating system which we operate, eventually accounting for 50% of our of benefit to the children.
Aviva Russia has also donated charitable donations.
Here are just a few of the community activities we supported this year: Environment Todays actions will affect future generations, and nowhere is Street to School in India this more evident than in our approach to climate change and Aviva India has partnered with CRY Child Rights and You and the environment.
Our established and proven strategy focuses Save the Children in India to help over 50,000 street children on controlling our own impacts and resources, including gas, get access to education and training by 2012.
To date, 70% of water, electricity and waste and by pursuing this long-term staff have volunteered to donate a days salary to CRY, and in policy we have reduced our carbon emissions by a further 5.2% November, 30 staff members took part in the Airtel Delhi Half this year.
As an investor, we use our influence to encourage Marathon to raise funds for the charity.
In partnership with the others to make responsible choices and we promote good Hindustan Times, Aviva India also held a five-day book donation environmental practice among our colleagues, customers drive which resulted in 125,000 books donated by employees, and suppliers.
schools and members of the public.
Save the Children will use On a like-for-like basis, in 2009, our total carbon emissions the books to help give 38,000 underprivileged children access fell by 5.2% across our global business, compared to a 6.6% to education.
Overall, we achieved a group-wide reduction in carbon emissions of 15% 2008: 3.3%.
This figure includes energy consumption data from our business in Australia before Corporate responsibility 71 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information its sale in October 2009.
The data excludes Auto Windscreens Kong University.
Launched in March 2009, the Aviva Junk and Aviva Global Services AGS which were sold at the end incorporates a number of renewable energy efficient of 2008. technologies and is being used to host educational tours as part We also set global annual targets in other key areas, of our environmental awareness programme in Asia Pacific.
summarised below: Raising our employees levels of engagement and participation in environmental projects is an important part of Performance our efforts to encourage good practices, both at work and at accounting home.
Many of the employee volunteering activities that took for 2009 Targets divestments place around the world in June as part of our celebrations to Reduce CO emissions by 5% 5.2 % 2 become One Aviva focused on the environment, including a Reduce water use by 4% 8.8 % recyclathon and a series of tree planting events.
We publish Reduce waste by 4% 9.6 % regular articles and updates on environmental matters on our Increase percentage of recycled waste by 2% until 80% recycled rate is achieved.
15.0 % global intranet site and, in November, teamed up with our We also offset 105% of our remaining emissions by investing in sustainable projects such environmental partner ClimateWise with an interactive, webas renewable energy generation and small-scale run-of-river hydro electricity systems.
based project to give employees the chance to have their say All performance data is calculated on a like-for like basis taking into account new acquisitions and divestments in 2009. on risks and opportunities associated with climate change and the insurance industry.
We continue to pursue our goal to incrementally reduce our As part of controlling and reducing impacts within Aviva, carbon footprint on an annual basis.
We have also set out a telepresence video conferencing has proved to be a significant long-term carbon reduction target to help focus our businesses asset.
By implementing this technology and reducing domestic environmental strategies.
By 2020 we aim to reduce our carbon and international air travel we have made cost savings, emissions by 30% from our 2006 baseline.
promoted work-life balance and reduced our carbon footprint from air travel by 5% in 2009.
In 2010 we plan to increase the The role of insurers in climate change number of facilities available to make telepresence a regular The insurance industry has a fundamental part to play in part of business and extend our capacity by using some of our societys responses to climate change.
As a major insurer Aviva suppliers conference facilities.
In the UK our proactive work has first-hand understanding of the impact of extreme weather on climate change was recognised when we gained events on our customers.
On their behalf, we are committed accreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard.
The standard is a to help mitigate the threat of climate change and support key milestone for Aviva as it is an early action metric that will everyone in society to adapt to changes caused by man-made count towards the UK governments new Carbon Reduction emissions already in the atmosphere.
Our industry can also draw Commitment regulation.
on its knowledge of historical weather data to identify patterns We are both a signatory and responding company to the of change, applying our understanding of risk to map future Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, and this year were ranked temperature scenarios and determine likely impacts.
Finally, eighth in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the we can offer the financial tools to help manage the burden FTSE350, third in the financial services sector and 38th overall of climate change, for example the pooling and transfer of risk.
Our Chairman, Lord Sharman, spoke at We believe that climate change must be tackled now.
the CDP London launch event and called on industry to provide As extreme weather events become more frequent and more more consistency and transparency in reporting and move from severe, they become more challenging to insure.
It is in disclosure to mitigation.
everyones interest that insurance remains affordable and Our environmental planning is now being extended to our available so that people affected from severe weather events partners, and, in a first move for Aviva, we signed a green can recover quickly from unavoidable impacts.
service level agreement with Hewlett Packard HP for the Our actions and commitments provision and running of two data centres.
As a key part of the Proactive participation in leading global forums and associations contract, HP is charged with using eco friendly or renewable is a key part of our climate change strategy.
This year we were power sources to run the centres, develop an environmental involved in the lead-up to the Copenhagen Summit in management system, conduct audits and hold an annual review December 2009 through our membership of working groups of with Aviva to assess progress, set targets and investigate new the UNEP Finance Initiative and as signatories to the following: technologies and processes.
The Geneva Association Kyoto Statement The UNEP FI Investor Statement on a Global Agreement on Customers Climate Change With customers confidence in financial institutions shaken The ClimateWise Statement for Copenhagen by the global economic downturn, it was as important as ever The Corporate Leaders Group Copenhagen Communiqu before to remain true to our purpose of providing prosperity and peace of mind.
We continued to work to understand Our senior executives also take the opportunity to engage perceptions and needs in our markets and once again personally and as widely as possible on climate change and conducted our wide-ranging annual survey on worldwide other environmental issues.
In September, a senior delegation consumer attitudes to savings, using the results to inform including Carole Piwnica, chair of our Board CR Committee, ongoing product and service developments across the Group.
1 Euleen Goh Aviva Group Board member and Simon Machell The Net Promoter Score NPS is our leading, GroupCEO Aviva Asia Pacific led a roundtable discussion in Hong wide measure of customer advocacy, comprising a globally Kong with NGOs, corporates, academics and students from consistent relationship and benchmarking survey which is Hong Kong University.
The event included strong debate on the regularly conducted.
We continued to extend this across our climate change agenda and Avivas role in making a difference, global operations and next year will develop the metric further providing valuable perspectives that are being shared within the 1 Net Promoter, NPS, and Net Promoter Score are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems, Inc. organisation.
The group also visited the Aviva Junk, a green Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld.
Chinese sailing vessel, developed in collaboration with Hong 72 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 to learn more about how customers interact with Aviva Encouraging our suppliers to further develop CR within their and gain a better understanding of their preferences.
NPS own businesses and supply chains.
performance targets form part of our executive directors annual remuneration.
We made progress in sourcing with the development of a set of industry-leading questions in collaboration with the UK-based Products and services Financial Services CR forum.
These take account of CR issues for Through our product portfolio customers can make informed different categories of spend, helping Aviva to make informed choices about their insurance and financial needs that can at choices about potential new suppliers.
A CR weighting is the same time provide wider socioeconomic and environmental included in our sourcing decisions.
benefits: To support and maintain ethical relationships with suppliers Our affordable microfinance and insurance products for lowwe are implementing processes and tools that identify income earners have reached around 1.4 million rural lives in hospitality offered by suppliers to ensure that this does not India to date, in many cases offering financial protection for conflict with our internal rules and is not offered during as little as two dollars a year.
Similarly, we have implemented a Car insurance customers in some of our general insurance register of interests to ensure complete transparency of any markets can opt for lower premiums if they drive vehicles interest that our employees might have in an existing supplier.
Finally, in relation to encouraging our suppliers to adopt With research showing that half of new parents do not have sustainable practices, we are reviewing Aviva's suppliers to adequate insurance, we launched Parent Life Cover in the UK assess them against a CR maturity curve and develop relevant which includes free protection until the childs first birthday.
Aviva's suppliers are asked to sign our code Recognising low levels of confidence among consumers, of conduct, which provides an obligation to comply with Lisseo was launched in France to offer customers the relevant standards relating to the environment, ethical business opportunity to invest gradually in the equity markets without conduct and respect for human rights.
All regions are making the need to commit a lump sum on one day.
good progress in embedding these activities into business processes, but we acknowledge that this needs to remain Extreme weather events are an increasingly common occurrence a focus area in 2010. and 2009 was no exception.
Aviva in Ireland launched an advance payment mechanism in response to the extensive External benchmarking and recognition flooding in November to help householders and businesses Our achievements in 2009 were recognised by our inclusion who were most seriously affected.
In a co-ordinated campaign, in some of the worlds leading external benchmarks: the team also worked with local and national media and local Dow Jones Sustainability World and STOXX Indices councillors to keep customers informed about the steps to SAM sustainability year book take if they were affected.
FTSE4GOOD Index Series In the UK, by activating our major incident plan in a timely FTSE KLD Europe, Asia Pacific and Global Sustainability manner ahead of predicted floods and storms at the year end, indices excluding the US Index we were well prepared to respond.
In Cockermouth, Cumbria, ECPI Ethical Index Euro and Ethical Index Global indices particularly hard hit by severe flooding, Aviva claims staff were Building Public Trust award for clear and transparent immediately stationed at the evacuation centre and stayed until reporting of our executive remuneration policy the last evacuee had left, providing advice and support to Gold status in Business in the Communitys BITC Corporate anyone who needed it, irrespective of who their insurer was.
Responsibility Index 2008 and Most Improved Company in Our drive to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty our sector gained extra momentum this year with the launch of the first Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index score of 80 out Aviva Customer Cup.
This is our new global tournament of 100 designed to help our employees identify and remove barriers to Carbon Trust Standard first insurer to receive the standard customer loyalty, stimulate innovative ideas and enable teams for our year-on-year efforts to reduce our carbon footprint around the world to be recognised for delivering the One Stonewall Workplace Equality Index ranked 54th in the top Aviva brand promise.
Projects from more than 340 teams were 100 employers in the UK evaluated by judges in three tournament stages with 10 teams Ranked in The Times Aurora top 50 companies Where making it through to the grand final in October.
The winning Women Want to Work.
group was the Ears of RAC with a web-based project to capture comments and opinions from customers, spot trends Affiliations and engagements and respond to them quickly.
The focus is now on sharing the We work closely with leading organisations to share good best practices of the top 10 projects in other parts of Avivas practice, identify emerging issues and improve our performance.
business and embedding these before launching the next Here are just a few of the organisations we collaborated with tournament in 2010. in 2009: CBI Climate Change Board Supply chain HRH Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability Our challenge is to support our suppliers in meeting the highest ClimateWise social, environmental and ethical standards in the delivery of UNEP Finance Initiative goods and services.
For 2009 we agreed a global approach and UN Global Compact UNGC and represented on UN targets for our regional procurement teams focusing on our Principles for Responsible Investment and Caring for Climate approach to: working groups Sourcing ethical suppliers in the context of Avivas annual Business in the Community third-party spend of around 6 billion Ensuring an ethical relationship between our suppliers and Aviva employees Corporate responsibility 73 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Key indicators Met exceeded 2009 target Missed 2009 target CR Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2009 target Change over year 2010 target Business ethics % of employees signing of receipt, 90% 100% of employees n a 100% of employees understanding and acceptance of our Business Ethics Code annually Customers % of businesses that met exceeded 67% 67% Continue to embed 0% Develop and test performance against local market average customer metrics across Transactional NPS Aviva.
Pilot Distributor general insurance and NPS metric Canadian business to adopt NPS metrics in 2009 % of employees who rate us favourably on 67% Meet exceed GFS New KPI Increase the percentage customer index benchmark of favourable ratings 2009: 69% from employees in customer index Environment % of remaining CO2 emissions offset 100% 100% 100% Offset remaining 0% Offset remaining CO2 annually emissions CO2 at emissions at group level group level CO emissions tonnes actual 127,002 122,791 104,351 15 % 2 Reduce CO2 emissions CO emissions tonnes based on 2009 n a 110,051 104,351 Reduce CO emissions 5 % 2 2 by 5% ownership by 5% Water consumption m absolute 851,070 843,750 751,750 Reduce water use 11 % Reduce water use by 4% by 4% Waste generated tonnes absolute 18,877 19,311 14,592 Reduce waste 24 % Reduce waste generated generated by 4% by 4% Proportion of recycled waste 88% 84% 69% 80% or above 15 % 80% or above People % of women in senior management 22% 22% 22% Increase percentage 0% Increase percentage of of women in senior women in senior management group management group Suppliers Number of business unit suppliers, with 233 adjusted 438 1,750 adjusted from 205 1,000 material spend, signing Avivas Supplier Code from 983 2,500 of Conduct Number of detailed CR assessments of 30 in the UK 138 globally 100 globally 108 200 globally Avivas major suppliers Number of business units that have 5 11 10 6 18 implemented and embedded use of Supplier Hospitality register and Register of Interests Community Amount of community investment 6.8m 9.6m 8.0m Establish and report 17 % Total community investment in line with group at above previous year community strategy % of employees participating in volunteering 16% New KPI n a Increase the % of employee participation in volunteering Number of employee hours spent 67,700 79,900 Increase the % of 18% Increase the % of employee volunteering employee participation participation in volunteering in volunteering % of investment in Aviva Street to School New KPI 50% Notes on KPIs Business ethics: This KPI covers 98% of our employees.
Customers: Using our NPS methodology, 67% of businesses met or exceed performance last year against a local market average 2008: 67%.
However, within that percentage, 24 markets are participating in NPS compared to 12 in 2008 and 58% are exceeding the benchmark, compared to 33% in 2008.
Last year we reported the percentage of businesses that met exceeded performance against local market average where no local benchmark was available 2009: 75%.
Businesses that were covered by this metric are now all rated against a local market average.
This metric has therefore been removed.
Also in 2009, we replaced an employee survey question relating to the percentage of employees who consider that their business is customer focused with a new customer index KPI.
This gives an average favourable employee response against five customer indicators.
Environment: We want to show clearly that we have reduced our emissions as a result of energy management and behavioural change and not merely due to divestments.
The KPI for Actual emissions are absolute emissions for total Aviva operations in each year stated while the KPI with emissions based on 2009 ownership show our emissions over the last two years based on operations that we have in 2009 allowing for a like-for-like comparison.
Water has been restated following an independent review of Aviva Canada's water consumption between 2006 and 2008.
This has increased the overall Group consumption figures.
People: Current and historical data for women in senior management excludes Delta Lloyd group.
We also report KPIs relating to employee engagement.
These can be found in our online CR report: www.
com  reports Suppliers: We adjusted our 2009 target and 2008 return for the number of business unit suppliers signing Avivas Supplier Code of Conduct due to a statement of compliance from our business in North America which could not be validated by Group Procurement.
Community: These KPIs cover all Aviva employees and Aviva joint venture employees.
74 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Accounting for Sustainability Aviva plc operational carbon footprint covering 100% We also report our performance using Accounting for of employees Sustainabilitys connected reporting framework, which GHG Emissions data from 1 Jan 2009 to 31 Dec 2009 integrates financial and non-financial data to provide a comprehensive picture of our impacts.
We were one of the first Baseline Tonnes CO e 2009 2008 year 2006 2 companies to help develop the framework and have used this Scope 1 42,224 61,886 52,847 approach for environmental reporting in our Annual Report Scope 2 81,994 88,712 90,591 and Accounts since 2007.
This year we have extended the use Scope 3 30,508 26,409 21,952 of the framework further by adding customer and community Gross CO emissions 154,726 177,077 165,390 2 absolute CO footprint 104,351 122,791 125,400 2 investment indicators.
Carbon offsetting 109,568 128,930 132,000 We have reported the following indicators: Total net emissions 5,217 6,139 6,600 i Greenhouse gas emissions Data according to Defra guidelines ie UK electricity rated as grid average but renewable ii Waste recognised in other countries Scope 1 operational emissions from owned sources eg gas, vehicle fleet as part of iii Resource usage product service.
iv Customer advocacy Scope 2 operational emission from non-owned sources eg electricity.
Scope 3 business activity emissions from non-owned sources eg business travel v Investing in communities Performance, strategy and targets i Greenhouse gas emissions In 2009, our total CO2 emissions decreased with 26 of our Direct company impacts 28 businesses reporting consistently on their footprint and Cashflow performance applying practices to reduce their emissions.
These have been CO2 emissions: Total cost of offsetting 105% of our global CO2 achieved by using technologies to dematerialise the carbon in emissions 104,351 tonnes in 2009 was in the region of the way we work, changing behaviours, and by purchasing zero 620,000.
These CO2 emissions offset on a retrospective basis emission and renewable electricity.
Through our divestment in compensate for the carbon output of our consumption of non AutoWindscreens, AGS and Aviva Australia, our footprint renewable sourced electricity, fugitive emissions from airreduced by 12,740 tonnes.
conditioning system gases, gas and oil from buildings and Our telepresence facilities were used for 1,030 meetings business travel.
in 2009, a total of 4,927 meeting hours.
Over the same period We incur up to a 2% premium when purchasing renewable our air kilometres km reduced by 20% from 105 million km electricity in countries where the benefit of the related zero or to 84 million km.
Our telepresence sites are reaching optimal reduced emissions are granted to the purchasing company.
At utilisation so we have begun to investigate other desktop video the end of our current main UK electricity contract in July 2010 communication technologies to meet the everyday demands we will no longer pay a premium for zero emission electricity in of the business.
For the first time we ran a virtual HR and CR the UK.
Currently 64% 2008: 65% of our electricity worldwide conference using webex facilities, replacing the traditional is purchased from zero emission sources.
venue format and reducing costs and emissions associated Other significant emissions: Our operations do not generate with air travel.
Held over five weeks, a total of 1,650 attendees material quantities of any other significant greenhouse gases: joined sessions during the 50-hour conference, using 2,475 however we are beginning to measure and report on our webex hours.
The conference enabled us to reach the entire fugitive emissions in line with the Defra Voluntary Reporting global HR and CR community at a significant reduction in cost Guidelines on GHG for Companies.
on previous events and this format is now being considered by other functions in Aviva.
Avivas CO emissions 000 tonnes 2 The energy-related consumption of our UK data centres CO tonnes CO offset CO tonnes per employee 2 2 2 was included in the outsourcing contract.
We put what we 140 2.8 think is the first green service level agreement into place with 120 2.4 an onus on our outsourcing partners to report performance in terms of energy efficiency, target setting, and standards of 100 2.0 equipment used must sign up to the EU Code of Conduct for 80 1.6 Data Centres.
Our focus on IT, being an enabler to carbon 60 1.2 reduction, and the more efficient use of energy in the ICT area 40 0.8 will continue this year as well as use of new technologies with 20 0.4 a longer return on investment to help us continue to meet our 0 0 annual and long-term carbon reduction targets.
In August 2009, we became the first insurance company 05 06 07 08 09 to gain accreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard.
This provides further independent assurance that we have reduced our emissions and, along with installation of Automated Meter Readers, it means that our operations have met the early action metrics in respect of the UK governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
The fuel consumption of the RAC fleet has reduced from 10.3 million litres to 9.1 million litres, a reduction of 11.6%.
This is due in part to the economic downturn, the use of more accurate satellite navigation systems in the vehicles and more technical staff in the call centres to talk customers through simple repairs.
This means they can continue their journey 64,048 125,400 125,400 127,002 127,002 122,791 122,791 104,351 104,351 Corporate responsibility 75 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information sooner and breakdown assistance mileage is reduced.
We are Performance, strategy and targets also making use of our local knowledge of reliable garages to In 2009, the headline figure for the total volume of waste reduce towing mileage and achieve a comprehensive repair generated globally by Aviva shows a reduction of 24%.
These changes in our processes, together with speed However, this includes a figure of some 6,000 tonnes, the result limiters and minimising our carrying load, have all reduced the of divestment of businesses such as Aviva in Australia, AGS and carbon intensity of our roadside breakdown service whilst still AutoWindscreens.
When we take divestments into account, providing the highest level of customer satisfaction.
the actual waste shows a net increase of 9.6%, and this has also affected our recycling waste figure which at 69% is short Indirect impacts of our target of 80%.
Our global rebranding to Aviva generated We are conscious of the potential impacts that climate change rebranding waste: however, we monitored it in the run up to has on our business.
We constantly update our understanding the day to ensure it was kept as low as possible.
The UK of the effect of these impacts through catastrophe modelling business recycled 161 tonnes of obsolete media and 26 tonnes tools using computer-assisted ca lculations to estimate the of other branded products.
Aviva in the USA took the losses that could be sustained as a result of an extreme weather opportunity to remove office clutter with a two-day recyclathon, event such as a windstorm or storm surge.
In 2009 Aviva was which generated 18.5 tonnes of recyclable material the represented on the latest ABI Climate Change Research steering 3 equivalent of 101 m of landfill space.
In 2007 the UK business group which sought to combine catastrophe models with set a zero to landfill target for 2012.
This has been delayed due climate change models to explore the variation in risk based on to the situation in the Chinese recyclate market and the UKs different temperature scenarios.
We consider the financial risk economic position.
We now have this target set for 2015.
To climate change poses for Aviva and accordingly build this into achieve this we have made some significant changes to our our levels of capital reserves and risk management processes.
Where local facilities exist, our Further detail on this can be found on page 56. remaining waste, following segregation in the office, is We have completed a carbon footprinting exercise for processed via material recycling facilities which provides a the properties we own through our Property Fund managed further 85% recycling rate on our waste in these locations.
Under the new UK Government This process will continue to be rolled out in 2010 but it has Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme, electricity, gas and already lifted our recycling rate in the UK from 61% to 74%.
oil used in the properties will be subject to an additional cost Indirect impacts of 12 per tonne.
Aviva Investors European Renewable Energy and Infrastructure Fund, launched in November 2008, is Products suppliers investors We are rolling out a repair over replacement process in our UK open for investment.
The target initial gross assets are set at 500 million.
accident repair centre network to reduce the proportion of new parts used in repairs to customers vehicles.
Industry benchmark information In Canada, Avivas Premiere Auto Network became the first Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index National Insurance Direct Repair programme to have all of their Score 80 out of 100 in FTSE Global 500 and FTSE350 network repairers waterborne compliant.
The new waterborne 2 BREEAM minimum ranking Good for new build and products will reduce volatile organic compounds VOCs by 40% refurbishment by 2034.
VOCs release fine particulates and ozone into the atmosphere.
By working with water rather than solvent-based ii Waste products, the reduction will lower the health risk for the paint Direct company impacts sprayers and other repair shop technicians from contracting Hazardous and non-hazardous waste lung cancer and heart disease.
Other procurement initiatives Total disposal cost for hazardous and non-hazardous waste in include providing alternative recycled-part solutions and paying the UK was 748,000 2008: 629,000, which includes UK for the disposal of hazardous waste.
Industry benchmark information Conservation investment 200kg of waste per employee per year Total capital expenditure for storage and recycling in the Recycling rate of 6070% BRE Office toolkit UK was zero 2008: minimal.
iii Resource usage Direct company impacts Avivas waste 000 tonnes Water Total waste tonnes Recycled tonnes Total waste per employee kgs The operating cost of water usage was 1.3 million in 2009 25 450 2008: 944,000.
20 360 Energy Intensity Total cost of buildings-related energy in 2009 was 17.7 million 15 270 2008: 18.2 million.
10 180 Paper usage 5 90 We currently do not track the cost of paper on a global basis.
0 0 05 06 07 08 09 2 Building research establishment environmental assessment methodology 8,271 4,911 19,719 12,622 18,877 16,672 19,311 16,222 14,592 10,064 kg employee 76 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Environmental Incidents Aviva Canadas Save Waste, Eliminate Paper programme is During 2009 there were no environmental incidents as a result supporting our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint.
It focuses of our operations 2008: none.
on eliminating printed policy documents for brokers, saving paper, ink, energy and time costs.
So far 246 out of 1,855 3 brokers have signed up to this programme.
Avivas water consumption 000 m 3 3 In France, Avivas agents and advisers are able to use Water consumption m Water consumption m per employee laptops when with clients to carry out transactions online.
860 20 This has increased the use of the online intranet portal and 820 16 client email database, lowered levels of correspondence by paper mail and fax, and has resulted in a reduction in waste 780 12 and increased efficiency for client-company exchanges.
In Italy, our distributors can use Web-Bancassurance and 740 8 WebAgenti IT support tools which provide online access to our 700 4 legacy system containing the lifecycle of policies from issuance to liquidation.
These tools have been extended to all 660 0 intermediaries connected with the main banks and also 06 07 08 09 to agents.
Performance, strategy and targets Industry benchmark information Water consumption reduced by 8.8% in 2009, exceeding our 3 Water: 7.7m per employee per year National Water target of 4%.
Whilst the businesses in the UK continued to see Demand Management Centre savings from the water saving devices installed towards the end Office Paper: good practice 4,000-5,000 sheets per employee of 2008, Aviva France installed water filters on the bathroom per annum Gartner Research taps of Montaigne Head Office in 2009.
The filters reduce the iv Customer advocacy flow of water by approximately 50% and achieve a reduction Direct company impacts of around 5% in the total water consumption.
This will now At Aviva, the Net Promoter Score is our key customer metric.
be rolled out to the regional offices in France.
This measure is widely regarded as a predictor of future growth, Following the very successful use of double sided printing with strong correlations to persistency and retention, repeat in the Group head office, the introduction of duplex printing purchase and willingness to recommend.
Results to date show as standard across the UK has resulted in a 20% reduction in that advocates are more likely to stay with us and to be more paper purchased and a 5% volume reduction in the amount profitable over time, suggesting that using this metric to build of office printing.
advocacy will have a positive impact on business performance.
Aviva France is currently studying the possibility of using paper with a reduced weight at the Montaigne head office in Non financial indicator Businesses performance vs local benchmark order to reduce paper consumption.
If this study is successful, Aviva will implement this solution throughout its entire network in France and will encourage its other subsidiaries to follow.
Performance v market average When buildings have reached their end of lease or are Net Promoter Score being refurbished, the environmental implications are % below market average % at or above market average % in upper quartile considered.
Some businesses like Aviva UK are turning to 100 space hopping hot desk solutions.
Other Aviva businesses 80 are consolidating their property space and as a result are able to manage their environmental impact more comprehensively.
60 Aviva USAs purpose-built head office, to be opened in June 2010, has been rated excellent by LEED Leadership in Energy 40 and Environmental Design and combines four existing offices 20 into one.
Indirect impacts 0 Products suppliers investors 08 09 The economic situation has meant that companies are Our performance, strategy and targets considering the added value of relationships.
Recently we In 2009, we successfully moved to a single global provider of engaged with some of our IT providers to see how we can make our annual relationship and benchmark NPS survey which has further energy savings and, through conversations with our IT helped ensure a globally consistent approach to NPS across supplier Cisco, we learned that we are able to power down our Aviva.
Through the Group Remuneration Committee, each desktop phones and other networked IT equipment remotely.
market is now set improvement targets relative to their local Continuing with our work around the impact of marketing benchmark and 10% of our executive directors compensation materials, and building on our initiatives to make information is linked to these targets.
available electronically and using degradable polywrap for Compared to 2008, we have seen a modest improvement literature sent through the post, we will be looking at our in the overall scores, which, given the tough economic climate, mailings and working with our distribution partners to may be considered a success.
ensure that our environmental impact in this area is kept to a minimum.
736,455 851,070 843,750 751,750 3 m employee Corporate responsibility 77 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information However, the Net Promoter discipline is about much more than Employee advocacy simply measuring performance: what counts is how we use the During 2010 we will be conducting work to understand and data to improve the experience for all our customers and this is improve employee advocacy ie the willingness of our own where we are encouraging businesses to place their attention.
employees to recommend our products as this will be a key Through 2010 there will be a number of projects across driver of customer advocacy.
We will report on our findings Aviva to further embed the NPS discipline into the way we next year in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
These include using the NPS discipline to capture v Investing in communities the voice of our distributors as well as Transactional NPS, Direct company impacts which surveys our custom ers after they touch the business Our global investment in charitable and community projects in to understand and fix immediate operational issues.
This includes Many of our businesses have already integrated Net cash, time and in-kind donations as well as management costs Promoter into the rhythm of how they do business day-to-day.
4 calculated using the London Benchmarking Group LBG model.
By conducting closed loop follow-up calls with detractor customers, our UK health business was able to better Community investment m understand why their customers were unhappy and take action, Community investment Employee volunteering hours for example, one follow-up call prevented a formal complaint 12 81 and another, by reducing the customers premium, retained someone who may otherwise have lapsed.
10 78 In 2009 our Aviva India business began working with their 8 75 promoter customers to generate sales leads.
The sales teams 6 72 followed up with these potential customers to discern their needs and offer an appropriate product.
4 69 Indirect impacts 2 66 Our measures to understand the key facets of customer 0 63 advocacy feed into a broader need in society to establish a more 07 08 09 customer focused approach to insurance.
This is a key part of the recommendations from the Insurance Industry Working Our performance, strategy and targets Group IIWG which was co-chaired by Avivas CEO, Andrew Our global community investment CI strategy, focusing Moss, and Alistair Darling, Chancellor of the Exchequer.
The on financial literacy, education and life trauma, aligns to 3 IIWGs report Vision for 2020 was published in July 2009 our corporate vision and channels financial support and the and set out recommendations for its members to increase expertise of our employees into projects where we can see consumer confidence and trust in UK insurance and create positive societal impacts.
Our total community investment more awareness of consum ers personal financial responsibility.
was 1.6 million lower than in 2008.
A number of factors In turn this would encourage the flow of capital into the UK contributed, including budget constraints across our businesses insurance industry and ensure its competitive position in the and the sale of Aviva Australia.
We also made exceptional cases global marketplace.
of higher levels of investment in 2008, including our support for the victims of the earthquake in Sichaun province in China.
Consumer attitudes to saving Despite challenging conditions, employee volunteering is on Avivas global survey of consumer attitudes to savings has run the increase.
16% of employees participated in volunteering for six years, building up a powerful and valuable body of data programmes in 2009, resulting in 79,900 hours of paid on a range of topic areas such as attitudes to risk, debt, trust, employee volunteering.
Our target for 2010 is to further financial services providers and pensions.
It has been used in increase the numbers of employees taking up this opportunity.
product development, PR, strategy and lobbying: Employee attitudes are measured and benchmarked through Malaysia: won significant media attention with the release our annual survey, which this year showed that 62% of of selected data revealing that a significant majority of employees believe that we do a good job of supporting Malaysians worry about being under-prepared for their the communities where we live and work.
France: taking the insight that French customers are increasingly risk averse, we developed a product that would allow them to invest gradually in equity markets to smooth the risk.
Singapore: held successful meetings with the Prime Ministers Office and received acknowledgement for their plans to organise a workshop aimed at encouraging and educating on wellness and shrinking the gap on long-term care.
3 A copy of the IIWG report can be found at: http: www.
net for more information 000 hours 78 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Last year we launched Street to School, our five-year initiative numbers of young people that have been positively affected to get young people off the streets and into education and by the Street to School programme.
We will publish these in training.
The programme is in operation in the UK, Turkey our 2010 report.
Also in development are linked cause-related and India and has so far involved various employee fundraising marketing CRM initiatives which will enable our customers activities including over 70% of employees in both India to engage in the programme in a number of ways, eg donate and Turkey participating in a salary donation drive.
In India, a percentage of their premiums towards the programme.
Aviva invited all citizens of Delhi on National Education Day Indirect impacts in November to join them in building a giant wall made entirely Street to School is still in its infancy but is already generating of books.
The books from the wall will be used to educate interest and support from stakeholders including prospective thousands of underprivileged children supported by Save the charitable partners, media, governments and customers.
Over 125,000 books were donated in five days.
also generated unprecedented support from employees who are We aim to roll out Street to School in all of our markets from motivating their friends and families to get involved with local 2010: a challenge for our businesses is to find viable third sector projects.
In 2010, we will continue to raise awareness of the partnerships in both developed and developing markets that we issue, and provide more education, funding and practical help operate in.
By the end of 2010, our target is to invest 50% of for children living on the margins of society.
our global community investment spend on these projects and we are now developing a set of impact targets, addressing the Governance 79 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Governance In this section 80 Board of directors 82 Executive management 83 Directors report 87 Corporate governance report 93 Nomination committee report 94 Audit committee report 96 Risk and regulatory committee report 98 Corporate responsibility committee report 99 Directors remuneration report
