Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2009 02 ICG at a glance Overview Established in 1989, Intermediate Capital Group ICG, the Company or the Group is a FTSE 250 listed investment firm and 3 FTSE 250 company with over 8bn of funds under management institutional fund manager of buyout debt, providing tailored capital solutions for financial sponsors and management teams in mid 3 A leading investor in and manager of buyout debt market companies.
The Company manages over 8bn of assets in 3 Disciplined approach to credit 22 funds for over 250 institutional investors, and a further 2.9bn of assets on its own balance sheet.
With offices in Europe, Asia Pacific 3 Local network of 58 experienced investment executives to source and North America, excellent local relationships, and partnerships and manage investments with leading institutional investors via our fund management 3 Focus on mid market, non cyclical, cash generative businesses business, ICG is particularly well placed to take advantage of with proven management teams the emerging opportunities in the current economic environment.
We believe the long term success of our business will centre on 3 Flexibility and experience to invest across the capital structure the following: 3 Scale and operational excellence Disciplined investment approach 3 Objective to once more deliver value to shareholders and investors In more challenging markets, such as those we are currently experiencing, ICGs focused, disciplined approach to investment has been instrumental in enabling it to outperform the markets.
ICG seeks to invest in cash generative, non cyclical mid market companies, with leading positions in their local markets, strong financial sponsors and proven management teams.
Our investment executives are embedded in their local markets, with long standing relationships and specialist knowledge.
They are incentivised not by the volume of investments they make but rather by the successful repayment of the investment.
We believe in diversification, team work, flexibility and strong partnerships with investors and sponsors.
Strong local network Our investment executives are based in nine countries, and their knowledge of their local environment is key to our success.
Indeed, our local offices are at the heart of our business model and provide us with a powerful advantage throughout the life of an investment.
Overview Business review Operational review Funds and portfolio Governance Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 03 Investment executives Amsterdam Stockholm 58 Local ofces 9 Frankfurt Hong Kong New York Paris Our global reach ICG is a thriving multicultural organisation employing 130 people, who speak London Madrid Sydney 29 different languages and manage investments in 17 countries.
Our network of over 58 investment executives represent 23 Record of recoveries nationalities, speak 29 different languages and manage investments By abiding to a stringent credit process throughout the life of an in 17 countries.
investment, from origination to exit, we have established a track Deeply entrenched credit culture record around defaults and recoveries which is considerably better than the industry average.
Our annual default rate is approximately While not immune to the current global economic downturn, 3 per cent and our historical recovery rate on realised, defaulted we believe that our disciplined approach will enable ICG to continue assets is 64 per cent.
As patient, long term investors, we are to substantially outperform the market.
Our credit culture is reflected prepared to invest more money to support our investments and the in our 20 year investment track record, characterised by average talented management teams of good companies impeded by inflexible returns of 20 per cent, low defaults and high recovery rates over or burdensome financial structures.
several economic and debt cycles.
We are committed to maintaining our credit culture and adhering to the discipline with which we Flexibility and experience to invest identify, select and manage our investments.
across the capital structure Our success is measured not only by the companies we invest Having invested through a number of economic cycles, ICG is adept in, but also by those we choose to avoid.
In over 20 years we have at identifying investment opportunities that offer investors attractive assessed many thousands of potential transactions and yet, in returns, regardless of where that value may lie in a companys capital aggregate, have only invested in 341 transactions, highlighting our structure.
This is particularly relevant in the current environment selective investment approach.
where we expect to see a transfer of value from equity to debt.
Active portfolio management Operational excellence We apply the same rigour to our monitoring process as we do to ICG has completed a number of initiatives to further enhance reviewing and selecting investments.
To ensure continuity, ultimate operational excellence and efficiency across the Company.
responsibility for monitoring over the life of an investment resides This includes a best in class technology platform to support with the investment team which originated it.
our investment teams and fund managers in the monitoring and We hold Board positions in 80 of our portfolio companies, acting management of our investments and funds.
The system is also a either as an active Board member or as a Board observer.
This, valuable internal resource, providing our teams with greater access combined with a structured approach to monitoring, enables us to to the market knowledge that the Company has accumulated over work closely with a companys management to identify and address its 20 years of investing.
problems early, a key driver of our strong track record.
