04 Cable & Wireless at a glance Two businesses Cable & Wireless is one of the worlds leading telecommunications companies.
We operate through two standalone businesses CWI and Worldwide with a small Central team as portfolio manager.
05 CWI Page 08 CWI owns and operates full service telecommunications businesses through four regional operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
At a glance Highlights of the year We are the leading telecommunications EBITDA up 1 1% to US$921 million provider in the majority of our markets.
We offer mobile, broadband and domestic and An increasingly efficient business international fixed line services to homes, with improving gross margin and small and medium-sized enterprises, EBITDA margin corporate customers and governments.
Mission and strategy One Caribbean transformation Our mission is to own and operate world programme delivering class telecoms businesses through our four self-sustaining and profitable regional Panama mobile market share operations, with the added scale of a strong growing despite further competition central owner.
Macau concession renewal agreed We are focused on generating even more subject to the ratification process value from our operations through four levers transformation: performance improvement: synergies and expertise: and growth.
WORLDWIDE Page 20 WORLDWIDE IS A GLOBAL COMMUNICATIONS BUSINESS PROVIDING MISSION CRITICAL TELECOMS TO LARGE ORGANISATIONS.
At a glance Highlights of the year We specialise in providing high quality Acquisition and successful communication services such as IP, data, integration of Thus voice and hosting to the largest users of telecoms services.
We provide connectivity Increased share of the UK to 153 countries.
Our core markets are enterprise market to 19% the UK, Asia, Middle East and Africa.
Mission and strategy EBITDA growth of 49% including Our mission is to be the first choice Thus and 36% excluding Thus for providing mission critical telecoms Positive trading cash flow, services to the largest organisations in our chosen markets.
the first for many years We aim to deliver this strategy by More than 150 customers specialising in large customers: delivering now using our Multi Service market-leading capability: giving the best Platform customer service: and offering customers the best value.
