Prudential at a glance Overview www.
com THERES MORE TO PRUDENTIAL CORPORATION ASIA Through its life insurance and asset management PRUDENTIAL operations, Prudential has 28 businesses in 13 countries across Asia.
Prudential is a leading life insurer in Asia with a presence Prudential plc is an international financial in 12 markets and a top three position in seven key services group with significant operations in locations: Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Asia, the US and the UK.
We serve approximately the Philippines and Vietnam.
We provide a comprehensive 25 million customers and have 290 billion of range of savings, protection and investment products that assets under management.
We are one of the best are specifically designed to meet the needs of customers capitalised insurers in the world with an Insurance in each of our local markets.
Groups Directive IGD capital surplus estimated Prudentials asset management business in Asia has retail at 3.4 billion.
operations in 10 markets and independently manages Understanding and responding to our customers assets on behalf of a wide range of retail and institutional needs is at the heart of our business.
It is something investors across the region.
we have been doing for over 160 years.
We generate sustainable value for our shareholders through a relentless focus on meeting our customers savings, www.
com income and protection needs and a disciplined approach to investing in the most profitable growth opportunities.
JACKSON NATIONAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY The Group is structured around four main business Jackson is one of the largest life insurance companies units: Prudential Corporation Asia, Jackson National in the US, providing retirement savings and income Life Insurance Company, Prudential UK and M&G.
solutions to more than 2.8 million customers.
Jackson Our operating model allows each of our businesses to is also one of the top five providers of variable and fixed stay close to their customers within the framework of index annuities in the US.
a consistent, Group-wide global approach to managing Founded nearly 50 years ago, Jackson has a long and risk, capital, cash, reputation and leadership successful record of providing advisers with the products, development and succession.
tools and support to design effective retirement solutions www.
co. uk Life assurance % of Group APE new business premiums PRUDENTIAL UK Prudential UK is a leading life and pensions 44% Asia provider to approximately 7 million customers 25% UK in the United Kingdom.
31% US It has a number of major competitive advantages including significant longevity experience, multi-asset % of Group new business profit investment capabilities, a strong investment track record, 45% Asia a highly respected brand and financial strength.
Prudential 14% UK UK continues to focus on its core strengths including its 41% US annuities, pensions and investment products where it can maximise the advantage it has in offering with-profits and other multi-asset investment funds.
co. uk % of Group external funds under management M&G 22% Asia M&G is Prudentials UK and European fund management 78% M&G business with total assets under management of 174 billion at 31 December 2009.
M&G has been investing money for individual and institutional clients for nearly 80 years.
Today it is one of the largest investors in the UK stock market, as well as being a powerhouse in fixed income.
At 31 December 2009 before final dividend 2 Prudential plc Annual Report 2009 OVERVIEW % of Group operating Key statistics 2009 highlights profits Over 15 million customers in 13 markets EEV Asia Top three position in fast-growing markets: Hong Kong, Indonesia, Malaysia, the 34% Philippines, Singapore, Vietnam and India 17,000 where we remain the leading private employees sector life insurer IFRS Extensive regional network of over 410,000 agents 15m 26% Further enhanced bancassurance Asia customers distribution in Singapore, Indonesia and Thailand through partnership with United Overseas Bank Award-winning, widely-recognised, trusted brand named Asia-Pacifics Health Insurer of Year in 2009 by Frost and Sullivan Internal Rate of Return IRR of over 20 per cent in 2009 Top five provider of variable and fixed EEV United States index annuities in US Ranked top insurance company for sales 39% support satisfaction in the Financial Research Corporate Adviser Insights study on Marketing Effectiveness IFRS Rated as a World Class service provider 2.8m for five successive years by Service Quality US customers 25% Measurement Group 3,000 Highest Customer Satisfaction by employees Industry award from Service Quality Measurement Group Record total APE retail sales of 912 million highest level in Jacksons history Internal Rate of Return IRR of over 20 per cent in 2009 The strength and performance of our EEV United Kingdom With-Profits Fund has once again allowed us to deliver strong annualised returns 27% for policyholders Maintained a leading position in the individual annuity market and launched IFRS a new Income Choice Annuity product Won Best Annuity Provider award at 36% 7m 2010 Professional Adviser Awards UK customers Customer Service Five-Star awards in Life and Pensions and Investment categories at the Financial Adviser Service Awards 3,000 Internal Rate of Return IRR of over employees 15 per cent in 2009 38 per cent of retail funds delivered IFRS United Kingdom and Europe top-quartile investment performance over three years 13% 89 per cent of active institutional funds delivered returns ahead of their 350,000 benchmarks over three years customers through M&G Record external net fund inflows of investments 13.5 billion 1,400 employees % of Group EEV long-term operating profits % of Group IFRS operating profits IFRS operating profits based on longer-term investment returns before restructuring costs and other income and expenditure.
