This has resulted in an increase in staff costs amounting to 169 million in both the pro forma and statutory results.
2 Pro forma total income excludes gain on redemption of own debt and strategic disposals.
In the statutory consolidated income statement on page 241, these items are included in total income.
3 Pro forma operating loss represents loss before tax, amortisation of purchased intangible assets, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, gains on pensions curtailment and bonus tax.
4 Pro forma excludes write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets.
5 Pro forma cost:income ratio represents operating expenses excluding amortisation of purchased intangible assets, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gains on pensions curtailment and bonus tax expressed as a percentage of total income excluding gain on redemption of own debt and strategic disposals.
6 Adjusted loss per ordinary and B share is based on earnings from continuing operations adjusted for amortisation of purchased intangible assets, write-down of goodwill and other intangible assets, integration and restructuring costs, gain on redemption of own debt, strategic disposals, gains on pensions curtailment and bonus tax.
Overview of results Pro forma results have been prepared that include only those business As discussed on page 51, the results of ABN AMRO are fully units of ABN AMRO that will be retained by RBS.
The financial review consolidated in the Groups financial statements.
Consequently, the and divisional performance in the Business review focus on the pro statutory results of RBS for the year ended 31 December 2009 and forma results.
The basis of preparation of the pro forma results is 2008 include the results of ABN AMRO.
The interests of the State of the detailed on page 113.
Netherlands and Santander in RFS Holdings are included in minority interests.
72 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2009
