Overview Annual Report and Accounts 2009 St. Jamess Place plc.
3183415 03 Our Services at a Glance St. Jamess Place Wealth Management offers wealth management advice to individuals and businesses.
Our services include: Investments Protecting Wealth Investing offers significant potential for increasing wealth, Protecting the wealth and financial future of our clients but only if it is done in the right way.
Our clients benefit families is a key element of our service.
We deal with from our distinctive approach to investment management.
exceptional insurance needs, such as unusually high levels By selecting a number of leading investment managers of life cover needed to protect estates from Inheritance Tax and investment houses, each with their own distinctive IHT or to protect business assets.
investment style, we are able to offer our clients access to some of the best managers available with a well Although the value of insurance is most often considered in diversified portfolio.
the context of individuals private lives, it frequently has an important role to play in business, protecting companies and The advice given to our clients is based on a review of their the people who own and manage them.
We are specialists in individual circumstances and we ensure that our clients this field, providing cover which can fund necessary changes investment strategies are aligned to their objectives whether in the business or its ownership.
it be to generate income or capital growth.
With increasing longevity, many of our clients face the prospect of needing to use all of their wealth to fund care in Retirement Planning later life.
Our range of trust-based schemes addresses this For many, retirement will last as long as, or even longer by allowing clients to make a gift of capital so as to reduce than, their working lives.
The financial implications the value of their estate for IHT purposes, while at the same are enormous.
Making a plan for a long and prosperous time providing them with a predetermined income to help retirement is very likely to involve investments in pensions meet the expenses of care in later life, if required.
but there is much more to retirement planning than pensions alone: proper planning must encompass all aspects of what is, for most people, the biggest change in their financial Business Planning circumstances during their adult lives.
Running a business today takes a great deal of hard work and commitment.
The pressures of maintaining the pace in The range of potential strategies is as broad as ever, but competitive markets mean that the future wellbeing of the with the tax environment changing rapidly, knowing business tends to take priority over time spent on planning whether to take advantage of the opportunities available, financial objectives.
Whatever the strategy, the flexibility and control provided by our investment approach gives Among other issues, business owners need to consider a distinct advantage together with bespoke advice.
how they will convert their enterprise into wealth and the development of an effective exit or transition strategy.
By taking time to understand a business, we work with business owners to meet their financial aims.
