Group at a glance The Group has a significant global presence, with equity interests in over 30 countries and over 40 partner networks worldwide.
The Group is organised in three geographic regions Europe, Africa and Central Europe, Asia Pacific and Middle East and Verizon Wireless in the US.
Europe Africa and Central Europe The Groups mobile subsidiaries and joint venture operate under the brand name The Groups subsidiaries operate under the Vodafone brand.
The Groups associated undertaking in France operates as SFR and ventures and associated undertaking operate as Plus in Poland, Vodacom in Neuf Cegetel, and the Groups fixed line communication businesses operate as Arcor South Africa and Safaricom in Kenya.
in Germany and Tele2 in Italy and Spain.
Proportionate mobile customer numbers at 31 2 Vodacom refers to the Groups interest in Vodacom Group Pty Limited in South Africa and its March 2009.
See Definition of terms on page 143. subsidiaries, including its operations in Lesotho, Tanzania, Mozambique and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
It also includes its Gateway services and business network solutions subsidiaries, which have customers in more than 40 countries in Africa.
Partner markets Partner markets extend the Vodafone brand exposure the need for equity investment.
Similar arrangements Partnership agreements in place at 31 March 2009, outside the controlled operating companies through also exist with a number of the Groups joint ventures, excluding those with the Groups joint ventures, entering into a partnership agreement with a local associated undertakings and investments.
associated undertakings and investments, are shown in mobile operator, enabling a range of Vodafones the table to the right.
global products and services to be marketed in that The results of partner markets are included within operators territory.
Under the terms of these partner Common Functions, together with the net result of market agreements, the Group and its partners unallocated central costs and recharges to the Groups cooperate in the development and marketing of operations, including royalty fees for the use of the certain services.
These partnerships create additional Vodafone brand.
revenue through royalty and franchising fees without 10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 Germany Italy Spain UK Other Vodacom Romania Turkey Other Executive summary Subsidiary Joint venture Associate Investment Percentages on the maps reflect share of ownership at 31 March 2009 Asia Pacific and Middle East Verizon Wireless US The Groups subsidiaries and joint venture operate under the Vodafone brand, with The Groups associated undertaking in the US operates under the brand the Groups investment in China operating as China Mobile.
China 3.2% Verizon Wireless 45.0% Egypt 54.9% Qatar 38.3% India 51.6% Fiji 49.0% Australia 100.0% New Zealand 100.0% 1 3 1 3 Revenue growth % Country Customers Revenue growth % Country Customers India 46,065 US 38,948 47.6 38.9 Egypt 10,405 37.7 Australia 3,970 China 15,324 Fiji 339 New Zealand 2,502 12.3 Qatar 3 T hese amounts are not included in related Group totals as Verizon Wireless is an associated undertaking.
Country Operator Country Operator Country Operator Note: 1 Partnership includes Bermuda and the Afghanistan Roshan Finland Elisa Panama Digicel following countries within the Caribbean: Armenia MTS Guernsey Airtel-Vodafone Russia MTS Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, Austria A1 Honduras Digicel Serbia VIP mobile Barbados, Bonaire, Curaao, the Cayman Bahrain Zain Hong Kong SmarTone-Vodafone Singapore M1 Islands, Dominica, French West Indies, Belgium Proximus Iceland Vodafone Iceland Slovenia Si.
mobile-Vodafone Grenada, Haiti, Jamaica, Samoa, St Lucia, Bulgaria Mobiltel Japan SoftBank Sri Lanka Dialog St Kitts and Nevis, St Vincent, Trinidad 1 and Tobago, Turks and Caicos Islands and Caribbean Digicel Jersey Airtel-Vodafone Sweden TDC British Guyana.
Chile Entel Latvia Bit Switzerland Swisscom Croatia VIPnet Lithuania Bit Thailand DTAC Cyprus Cytamobile-Vodafone Luxembourg Tango Turkmenistan MTS Denmark TDC Macedonia VIP operator Ukraine MTS Estonia Elisa Malaysia Celcom United Arab Emirates Du Faroe Islands Vodafone Iceland Norway TDC Uzbekistan MTS Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2009 11 India Egypt Other US
