DeBenhaMs aT a gLance A Brief Overview of our Business oUr sTraTegY DeBenhaMs sTores WorLDWiDe A Brief Summary Department, Desire and International Franchise Stores our strategy is based around our desire at the end of 2009, we had a total of 154 stores in the UK and republic of ireland.
to meet our customers needs by offering of these, 144 are department stores which offer a full selection of products including them good quality products in an appealing womenswear, menswear, childrenswear, health and beauty, accessories, lingerie, home shopping environment, whether instore and food services.
The other ten are Desire by Debenhams stores, our smaller format store or online.
which offers an edited collection of womenswear, accessories, lingerie, childrenswear and health and beauty.
The strategic priorities over the next year will be: at the year end we also had 52 international franchise stores in 17 countries.
core stores and organic growth: Full store list on pg 102 space expansion: multi-channel expansion and integration: and balance sheet optimisation.
our focus is on the drivers of cash profit to deliver shareholder value.
More about our strategy on pgs 618 oUr vision anD vaLUes Our Priorities and Culture We endeavour to meet the needs of all our stakeholders in everything we do: our customers, our employees, those involved in our supply chain, the local communities in which we operate and the environment.
We believe that looking after Department stores these interests will ultimately lead to Desire stores increased shareholder value.
International franchise stores 2 Section 1 overview Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 year in brief designers at debenhams Whats Been in the News?
From Catwalk to High Street 01 02 International superstar Henry Holland will be Dame Shirley Bassey joining the Designers at Under the designers at debenhams visited us for a Debenhams portfolio banner, we sell a range of exclusive and personal shopping next year with his stylish products designed by internationally consultation at exclusive new young renowned fashion designers.
Our complimentary 03 Ted Baker personal shopping Mantaray for women Jeff Banks is available to all was launched in Jasper Conran customers in every August adding to the Debenhams store.
already successful Ben fide Lisi brand in menswear, Erickson Beamon womens accessories Frost French and childrenswear.
Pip Hackett Henry Holland Betty Jackson Julien Macdonald Melissa Odabash Jane Packer Pearce Fionda Janet Reger John Rocha Eric van Peterson MatthewWilliamson 01 02 own boUght ProdUCts WhatWe Do Best own bought products fall into three main categories.
the first is debenhams own label which includes Collection, mantaray, maine new england, bluezoo and Le Vrai gourmet.
these brands represent our core customer offer.
the second is designers at debenhams, the portfolio of exclusive brands listed above, which is an important point of difference in an increasingly crowded high street.
03 the third is international brands such 04 as Levi strauss, nike, ben sherman, Boris Johnson looks adventurer Bear Chanel and este Lauder.
international a little confused at Grylls made a the opening of the personal appearance.
brands extend our product range and give new agship store customers the well-known brands that atWesteld London 06 they love.
Peaches Geldof joined us in store in her role 05 as face and body of Long queues formed new lingerie range ConCessions in store when Miss Ultimo.
Increasing Choice Concession brands offer customers a further level of choice.
they have historically been strong in areas where debenhams own bought brands have been under-represented, such as young fashion and footwear in womenswear and suiting in menswear.
Key concessions include wallis, warehouse, miss selfridge, Jacques Vert, Kurt geiger and tripp.
04 05 06 Debenhams annual report and accounts 2009 Section 1 overview
