Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2008 53 Key highlights Growth driven by priority and reserve brands Net sales growth of spirits up 7%, wine up 12% and beer up 6% North America The majority of the priority spirits, wine and beer brands gained share Share of US spirits broadly maintained at 28.3 percentage points despite share loss in value brands as priority brands gained 0.3 percentage points of share Ready to drink segment continued to be challenging with net sales down 10% Key measures Reported Organic 2008 2007 movement movement million million % % Volume 2 2 Net sales 2,523 2,472 2 5 Marketing spend 366 364 1 3 Operating profi t 907 850 7 10 Reported performance resulted in overall share of US spirits being broadly maintained during Net sales were 2,523 million in the year ended 30 June 2008, up by the year at 28.3 percentage points, with share of priority spirits brands 51 million from 2,472 million in the prior year.
Reported operating up 0.3 percentage points.
profi t increased by 57 million to 907 million in the year ended In Canada share gains of 1.0 percentage points were delivered in 30 June 2008. the spirits category.
Volume grew 6% driven by the global priority brands and net sales were up 9% as price increases were implemented.
Organic performance Smirnoff continued its strong performance from the fi first half The weighted average exchange rate used to translate US dollar sales and grew volume 8%.
Price increases were taken in key markets driving and profi t moved from 1 $1.93 in the year ended 30 June 2007 net sales growth of 12% and share grew 0.2 percentage points.
Growth to 1 $2.01 in the year ended 30 June 2008.
Exchange rate impacts of Smirnoff Red was driven by two successful advertising campaigns, decreased net sales by 73 million.
Acquisitions increased net sales by the Diamonds programme and Vladimirs Journey, which reinforced 6 million, the loss of distribution rights for certain champagne brands the quality image of the brand and its heritage.
Smirnoff fl avours decreased net sales by 6 million and there was an organic increase were driven by the launch of three new fl avours Blueberry, Passion of 124 million.
Exchange rate impacts reduced operating profi t by Fruit and White Grape and the Simple Drinks campaign, which 27 million and transfers of costs between regions increased operating taught consumers simple ways of making drinks at home with profi t by 4 million.
Acquisitions and the loss of distribution rights for fl avoured vodka.
certain champagne brands decreased operating profi t by 2 million Johnnie Walker also grew ahead of the category with volume up and there was an organic increase in operating profi t of 82 million.
5% and net sales up 10% driven by Johnnie Walker Black Label and the super deluxe labels, leading to share growth of 1.2 percentage points.
Overall volume growth was driven by the priority brands.
Price increases Price increases were taken across the Johnnie Walker range.
Expansion on 40% of spirits volume in the United States drove net sales growth of the Johnnie Walker Blue Label bottle engraving programme and the despite negative mix within the global priority brands due to the strong distribution of Johnnie Walker Blue Label King George V drove growth growth of Smirnoff and Captain Morgan.
The continued challenges of the super deluxe labels and improved mix.
in the ready to drink segment reduced overall volume growth by Captain Morgan volume was up 7% and net sales were up 1 percentage point and net sales growth by 2 percentage points.
12% driven by Captain Morgan Original Spiced rum which gained Marketing spend grew 3% as investment was realigned behind the a further 0.6 percentage points of share despite the launch of two priority and reserve brands and away from ready to drink.
Marketing competitor brands in the rum category.
Successful marketing excluding ready to drink grew 5%.
Diageo grew share on the majority campaigns around holidays and the Pose-off contest continued of its priority spirits and wine brands.
Loss of share in the value brands to build this iconic brand.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 54 Operating results 2008 Reported Organic Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Brand performance % % % Global priority brands 2 3 Local priority brands 3 5 8 Category brands 1 6 10 Total 2 2 5 Key brands: Smirnoff 8 9 12 Johnnie Walker 5 6 10 Captain Morgan 7 9 12 Baileys 6 5 3 Jos Cuervo 5 7 4 Tanqueray 1 3 Crown Royal 5 5 9 Guinness 5 4 7 Ready to drink 13 13 10 Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
The overall Baileys results were constrained by lower volume in The local priority brands grew volume 3% and net sales were Baileys fl avours, which lapped the launch in fi scal 2007.
Baileys up 8%, benefi ting from price increases and mix improvement Original Irish Cream outperformed the category with volume up from the higher margin spirits brands.
Crown Royal led this 3% and net sales up 7% as price increases were taken across most performance.
Buchanans volume was up 18% and net sales up of its markets.
Strong year round marketing support of the brand 24% and Seagrams 7 Crown and Seagrams VO grew net sales 4% and 1%, respectively, on fl at volumes.
Local priority wines along with summer programming for Baileys Shiver helped drive the growth.
grew volume 6% and net sales were up 8%, driven by strong The release of Jos Cuervo Platino in the fi first half of 2008 to performance of Sterling Vineyards and Chalone Vineyard and good consumer response is one of the ways Jos Cuervo is price mix improvement in Beaulieu Vineyard.
Within the category brands, mix improvement was driven positioning itself in an increasingly premiumising category.
Jos Cuervo Especial experienced heavy pricing competition and by strong growth of Don Julio volume up 19% and net sales up volume decreased 5% as the Jos Cuervo brand maintained price 22%, the Classic Malts volume up 14% and net sales up 19%, and in some states increased it, to support the premiumisation Bushmills volume up 13% and net sales up 16% and Croc volume up 89% and net sales up 90% on strong marketing and of the brand.
Marketing spend on Jos Cuervo was weighted toward the summer season and promoted the mixability of distribution gains.
Successful marketing of Smithwicks Irish the brand.
heritage delivered strong growth albeit off a low base with Tanqueray again outperformed a declining gin category, volume up 19% and net sales up 20% following national price increases.
This off set net sales declines among the value brands gaining 1.6 percentage points of share driven by the continued growth of Tanqueray Rangpur.
such as Gordons vodka, net sales down 10% and Gordons Gin, Crown Royal continued to take share in the North American down 1%.
whiskey category, up 0.4 percentage points.
Volume grew 5% The ready to drink segment continued to decline with volume down 13% and net sales down 10%.
This was driven by and price increases drove net sales up 9%.
Crown Royal Cask 16, launched in October 2007, helped to drive mix.
The brand was progressive adult beverages, led by the decline of Smirnoff Ice.
supported by two off trade promotions, the Legend of the Smirnoff Ice Light, Smirnoff Ice Strawberry Acai and Captain Purple Bag and Id Rather Be as well as its continued sponsorship Morgan Parrot Bay Mojito were introduced in the second half of the year to help refresh the segment.
The decline in progressive of NASCAR.
Guinness showed good growth against the import adult beverages was partially off set by the successful launch of segment which was broadly fl at, with volumes up 5% driven by the Smirnoff cocktail line.
Consequently marketing spend was keg sales and Guinness Extra Stout.
Net sales grew 7% as price reduced on progressive adult beverages and support provided to the spirit based cocktails.
The brand was supported by a new advertising campaign, Guinness Alive Inside.
On 9 June 2008, Diageo completed the acquisition of a 50% equity stake in the newly formed company Ketel One Worldwide BV, which holds the exclusive and perpetual rights to market, sell and distribute Ketel One vodka products.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2008 55 Key highlights Eastern Europe and Russia contributed over two-thirds of net sales growth Strong performance in Great Britain generated Europe nearly 20% of the regions growth Guinness outperformance against the beer categories in Great Britain and Ireland continued Strong performance of J&B with net sales growth driven by price increases in Spain and volume growth in mainland Europe Price increases implemented across the region Key measures Reported Organic 2008 2007 movement movement million million % % Volume 2 2 Net sales 2,630 2,427 8 3 Marketing spend 438 391 12 6 Operating profi t 720 723 3 Reported performance Global priority brands were the key growth driver with volume up Net sales were 2,630 million in the year ended 30 June 2008, up by 3% and net sales up 4%.
Johnnie Walker was the main contributor with 203 million from 2,427 million in the prior year.
Reported operating double-digit net sales growth.
J&B, Smirnoff and Baileys also performed profi t decreased by 3 million to 720 million in the year ended strongly and Guinness continued its positive performance from the fi first 30 June 2008.
Exceptional costs of 78 million in respect of restructuring half, delivering net sales growth for the full year.
costs for the Irish brewing operations are included within operating Smirnoff volume was up 6% and net sales were up 5%.
This expenses in the year ended 30 June 2008.
Reported operating profi t performance was driven by Great Britain where new advertising excluding exceptional items increased by 75 million to 798 million campaigns and a successful Christmas trading period drove volume up in the year ended 30 June 2008.
Net sales were up 8% as a simplifi ed promotional strategy led to higher volume but an increased percentage of that volume being sold Organic performance on promotion.
Within mainland Europe, negative market mix generated The weighted average exchange rate used to translate euro sales by the growth of Smirnoff Vladimir in Poland was partially off set by and profi t moved from 1 1.48 in the year ended 30 June 2007 price increases and the growth of Smirnoff Black as it was seeded across to 1 1.36 in the year ended 30 June 2008.
Exchange rate impacts a number of markets.
increased net sales by 128 million.
Acquisitions increased net sales Johnnie Walker volume was up 6%, driven by growth in Eastern by 1 million, transfers between regions decreased net sales by Europe and Russia, both of which were up over 30%, albeit off a small 1 million and there was an organic increase of 75 million.
Consistent advertising has increased awareness and the status of rate impacts increased operating profi t by 47 million.
Transfers of costs the brand in these markets.
This growth was partially off set by declines between regions increased operating profi t by 6 million, exceptional in Iberia and Greece.
Net sales were up 11% as a result of price increases costs decreased operating profi t by 78 million and there was an and mix improvement as investment focused on Johnnie Walker Black organic increase in operating profi t of 22 million.
Label and Johnnie Walker super deluxe labels.
Strong volume growth in Great Britain, driven by Smirnoff and Baileys, and in Eastern Europe and Russia, was partially off set by continued volume weakness in Iberia.
Price increases across Europe, combined with focus on the premium spirits brands, off set negative market mix from the rapid growth in Eastern Europe and resulted in net sales up 3%.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 56 Operating results 2008 Reported Organic Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Brand performance % % % Global priority brands 3 10 4 Local priority brands 3 3 2 Category brands 9 4 Total 2 8 3 Key brands: Smirnoff 6 9 5 Johnnie Walker 6 19 11 Baileys 4 11 4 J&B 1 14 6 Guinness 7 3 Ready to drink 11 10 13 Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Baileys returned to growth in Great Britain and delivered strong Local priority brand volume was down 3% and net sales were growth in Russia, resulting in overall volume and net sales up 4%.
This was driven by beer in Ireland and Cacique in Spain.
In Great Britain a return to advertising on television and a revised Local beer brands in Ireland declined, impacted by the continued promotional strategy at Christmas drove the brand back to decline of the beer category in the on trade and the decision to growth.
In Russia Baileys continued to demonstrate great reduce the volume sold on promotion in the off trade.
Carlsberg, potential with net sales growth of 37%, albeit off a small base.
however, delivered net sales growth as a result of distribution In mainland Europe net sales were fl at as the brand lapped the gains and a new advertising campaign and gained share.
In Spain Baileys fl avours launch in the prior year.
lower volumes of Cacique were partially off set by price increases.
J&B returned to growth in Europe supported by the Start Category brands delivered price mix improvement with a Party advertising campaign and expansion across mainland volume fl at and net sales up 4%, as a result of price increases on Europe.
In Iberia category volume declines worsened, however category scotch brands and the strategy to drive net sales from J&B delivered net sales growth and share gains as further price wine through a change in promotional strategy and mix increases were implemented.
Within mainland Europe, France improvement.
and Eastern Europe were the main growth drivers.
In France Ready to drink continued to decline, driven by Smirnoff Ice a price increase was implemented and J&B gained share.
The segment accounted for less than 5% of net Romania and Bulgaria, the brands biggest markets in Eastern sales in the region for the year ended 30 June 2008.
Europe, the Start a Party campaign has delivered strong growth.
Guinness volume was fl at and net sales were up 3% as the brand continued to outperform the beer categories in both Ireland and Great Britain.
This was the result of new advertising campaigns, focus on quality and the cooler summer of 2007.
In Ireland net sales were up 2% and share gains were made in both the on and off trade, driving an overall share gain for Diageo Ireland in the beer category.
In Great Britain the beer category worsened in the second half.
However, Guinness net sales were up 2% as it continued to outperform the category, particularly in the on trade where it recorded its highest ever share.
Volume was up 3% in the rest of Europe as a result of growth across a number of markets which, combined with price increases, led to net sales up 6%.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2008 57 Key highlights Continued double-digit net sales growth in Latin America, Africa and Global Travel and Middle East driven by strong price mix improvements across categories and markets In Africa strong performance of beer brands with net sales growth of 19% combined with continued International net sales growth of spirits brands up 21% drove very strong growth Volume growth across the region combined with price increases drove strong net sales growth of 14% in scotch Increased focus on categories outside of scotch and beer, such as vodka and rum, drove broader based growth Key measures Reported Organic 2008 2007 movement movement million million % % Volume 5 5 Net sales 1,971 1,667 18 16 Marketing spend 244 208 17 16 Operating profi t 593 499 19 19 Reported performance Johnnie Walker delivered 8% volume growth, mostly driven by South Net sales were 1,971 million in the year ended 30 June 2008, up Africa, Mexico and Global Travel and Middle East, fuelled by strong trade 304 million from 1,667 million in the prior year.
Reported operating support and successful advertising.
Net sales increased by 18% as a profi t increased by 94 million from 499 million to 593 million in result of price increases implemented across the region and stronger the year ended 30 June 2008. growth in more profi table channels in Latin America and of higher margin brands in Africa and Global Travel and Middle East.
Organic performance Baileys volume grew 1% and net sales were up 6%, driven by Exchange rate impacts increased net sales by 37 million.
Transfers premium priced gift packs combined with brand promotion in between regions increased net sales by 1 million and there was Global Travel and the launch of Baileys fl avours in Mexico and an organic increase in net sales of 266 million.
Exchange rate impacts Central America.
increased operating profi t by 2 million and transfers of costs between Buchanans is the key local priority brand in International.
regions reduced operating profi t by 5 million.
Acquisitions increased Buchanans strategy was to increase price in all key markets and this operating profi t by 1 million and there was an organic increase in impacted volume while increasing net sales.
Volume decreased 2% operating profi t of 96 million.
while improved price mix drove net sales growth of 5%.
The main growth came from Mexico driven by strong on trade activities and Across global priority, local priority and category brands, net sales successful media campaigns.
growth outpaced volume growth driven by price increases.
Global Guinness volume increased 2%, with strong growth coming from priority brands are the drivers of the International business and net Cameroon and East Africa driven by the Guinness Greatness campaign sales were up 15%, with Johnnie Walker, Guinness and Smirnoff the and economic expansion.
Net sales for the region were up 13% as a main contributors.
result of price increases and a benefi t from changes in excise duty in Smirnoff volume grew 7%, driven mostly by Brazil and South Africa some markets.
where successful marketing campaigns led to further share gains.
Price Increased focus on the Start a Party campaign for J&B led to strong increases in key markets led to strong price mix improvement, resulting growth with volume up 13% and net sales up 21%.
The key markets in 15% net sales growth.
were Mexico, South Africa and Global Travel and Middle East, where price increases drove net sales growth.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 58 Operating results 2008 Reported Organic Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Brand performance % % % Global priority brands 6 17 15 Local priority brands 4 20 15 Category brands 4 19 17 Total 5 18 16 Key brands: Smirnoff 7 18 15 Johnnie Walker 8 21 18 Baileys 1 9 6 Buchanans 2 15 5 Guinness 2 15 13 Ready to drink 3 12 13 Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Local priority brands delivered 4% volume growth and 15% In Ghana net sales grew 32%, driven by price increases across all net sales growth, mostly driven by improved price mix across brands.
The largest volume growth came from lagers, malt and Buchanans and beer.
Tusker and Pilsner continued to show stout, as a result of successful marketing investments and double-digit net sales growth, driven by price increases and expansion in the off trade.
In Nigeria net sales increased 14%, wider availability.
As a result of successful marketing campaigns driven by a re-launch of Malta Guinness and price increases and the development of the off trade in key markets Nigeria and across all brands.
Net sales growth was 9% in Cameroon, as a Ghana, Malta Guinness also showed double-digit net result of price increases on main brands combined with an sales growth.
Category brands volume increased 4% and net sales Latin America delivered double-digit net sales growth, with increased 17%.
Volume growth was driven by double-digit main growth coming from Mexico and Brazil as a result of price growth of beer brands in Africa.
Signifi cant price increases on increases in key brands and strong marketing campaigns.
value and standard scotch brands in Latin America resulted in In Venezuela and Mexico prices were increased across volume decline, but strong price mix improvement drove net brands.
In Venezuela volume was down 14% as price increases sales growth.
were implemented as a result of the economic situation, however Ready to drink volume grew 3%, mainly driven by Smirnoff net sales were up 4% as a result of improved price mix and strong ready to drink brands, in particular the introduction of new performance in rum.
Mexicos volume grew 26% as a result of fl avours in Brazil and the continued success of Smirnoff Ice in continued scotch category growth led by Diageo, combined Brazil and Nigeria and Smirnoff ready to drink in South Africa.
Mexicos net sales grew 31% driven by sales grew 13% mainly as a result of price increases in South Africa, premiumisation and price increases.
Net sales grew 10% in the Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay hub In Diageos major African markets net sales growth was in with scotch and Smirnoff the key drivers.
Successful marketing double-digits, with the main growth coming from East Africa, campaigns on scotch and Smirnoff combined with continued Nigeria and South Africa, where net sales were up 23%, 14% and growth in the ready to drink segment led to volume increases.
Increased prices and favourable channel and product mix In East Africa net sales growth was driven by strategic price improved price mix driving net sales growth.
increases in the key market of Kenya, signifi cantly improving In Global Travel and Middle East, volume grew 2% and price mix, and eff ective marketing on Guinness and Tusker net sales grew 16%.
Volume growth was driven by strong increasing visibility and driving volume growth.
performance of scotch, especially Johnnie Walker Black Label In South Africa Diageos scotch brands and Smirnoff and Johnnie Walker super deluxe labels, as a result of gift pack benefi ted from price increases and, supported by successful promotions and successful advertising campaigns.
Strong price marketing campaigns, continued to outperform the category.
mix improvements, driven by price increases combined with The introduction of Foundry cider contributed to growth and favourable mix on scotch, resulted in double-digit net gave access to a profi table and growing cider category.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2008 59 Key highlights Continued investment in regional infrastructure to support future growth objectives Net sales growth in the region driven by global priority brands India route to market strengthened as a result of continued growth of locally produced brands Further share gains in scotch in China Loss of import licence in Korea for part of the year Asia Pacifi c impacted all measures Ready to drink performance was aff ected by the excise duty increase in Australia in the fourth quarter Key measures Reported Organic 2008 2007 movement movement million million % % Volume 2 2 Net sales 877 840 4 2 Marketing spend 191 199 4 6 Operating profi t 170 196 13 12 Reported performance Smirnoff grew volume 20% and net sales 29%.
This performance was Net sales were 877 million in the year ended 30 June 2008, up driven by double-digit volume and net sales growth in India, Australia 37 million from 840 million in the prior year.
Reported operating profi t and Thailand.
The focus on Smirnoff fl avours in India and Smirnoff Black decreased by 26 million from 196 million to 170 million in the year and fl avours in Australia drove the overall price mix improvement.
A signifi cant increase in marketing spend fuelled performance in Thailand.
The brand grew share in all these markets.
Organic performance Johnnie Walker volume was marginally down, with volume decline Exchange rate impacts increased net sales by 19 million and there was in India as a result of the closure of the duty free channel which was only an organic increase in net sales of 18 million.
Exchange rate impacts partially off set by the growth of sales in the domestic channel, in increased operating profi t by 2 million and transfers between regions Australia where net sales grew as a result of signifi cant price increases decreased operating profi t by 4 million.
There was an organic decrease and in Taiwan where the scotch category declined but Johnnie Walker in operating profi t of 24 million.
In China Johnnie Walker grew volume 7% in the second half.
Therefore volume was fl at for the year, recovering from the 8% Following the loss of Diageos import licence in Korea, the route to decline in the fi first half.
Full year net sales increased 4%, following a 10% market was through a third party distributor for part of the year.
There decline in the fi first half.
Consumer demand continued to strengthen was a reduction in net sales per case, marketing spend and operating and Johnnie Walker gained an estimated 3 percentage points of profi t in Korea and this had a signifi cant impact on the overall volume share in the growing deluxe scotch segment in China.
In performance of Asia Pacifi c for the year.
Excluding Korea net sales Thailand Johnnie Walker grew net sales 5% and Diageo remained the increased 5% and marketing increased 4%.
In addition, overheads market leader in both premium and deluxe scotch.
Across the region increased to support the future performance in the region with the net sales grew 4% on the back of price increases.
Marketing spend was establishment of in market companies in China and Vietnam, increased broadly in line with last year.
resources behind the Indian domestic route to market and the creation of the distribution hub in Singapore.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 60 Operating results 2008 Reported Organic Volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Brand performance % % % Global priority brands 4 9 6 Local priority brands 4 7 7 Category brands 4 11 6 Total 2 4 2 Key brands: Smirnoff 20 37 29 Johnnie Walker 1 5 4 Windsor 7 17 12 Guinness 1 6 6 Ready to drink 2 8 1 Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Windsor volume increased 7% whilst net sales were down The volume of category brands in the region was down 4%, 12% as a result of having to pay distributor margin in Korea for however net sales value grew 6% as a result of continued focus part of the year.
Consistent marketing activity throughout the on improving profi tability of scotch brands in Thailand where low year extended Windsors leading share within deluxe scotch value brands were discontinued.
The growth of locally bottled by 1.1 percentage points in volume terms.
scotch brands in India, together with the growth of bottled in Guinness volume was up 1% and net sales up 6%, with India brands in other categories, enhanced Diageos route to increased distribution and successful consumer promotions market there and off set much of the volume decline in category driving strong double-digit net sales growth in Korea and scotch brands.
The growth of The Singleton malt whisky in Greater with the expansion of the brand in China following a new China further contributed to price mix improvement.
distribution agreement, supported by signifi cant The Australia ready to drink segment represents over 90% marketing activity.
of ready to drink net sales in the region.
Ready to drink brands in Overall performance of local priority brands was impacted Australia performed strongly for the fi first 10 months of the year by Korea, with volume up 4% but net sales down 7%.
Excluding but slowed signifi cantly following a 70% duty increase in April Korea volume was up 2% and net sales were up 3%.
This was 2008, and for the full year volume declined 2% and net sales were driven by Bundaberg in Australia, with volume up 5% and net down 1% for the region.
sales up 6% as a result of strong sales of Bundaberg ready to drink prior to the signifi cant increase in duty which was implemented at the end of April and, after this duty increase, an uplift in Bundaberg spirits sales.
This was partially off set by declines in Old Parr and Dimple.
