Diageo Annual Report 2009 40 Operating results 2009 Key highlights Despite the diffi cult economic environment, North America delivered net sales growth Total spirits volume grew 1% with 3 percentage North America points of price mix.
Smirnoff vodka, Captain Morgan and Jos Cuervo positioned in the more resilient premium segment contributed most to net sales growth Vodka remained the largest and most resilient of the major categories in the United States.
Diageo out-performed the category as a whole, growing net sales 16% led by Smirnoff in the premium segment and Croc and Ketel One vodka at higher price points Stock levels of beer and malt based ready to drink brands were reduced adversely impacting mix Stock levels of spirits have reduced across the Key measures supply chain Organic Reported 2009 2008 movement movement Innovation launches contributed signifi cantly to million million % % Volume 4 overall performance as the focus on premium spirits 2,523 Net sales 3,290 1 30 line extensions and pre-mixed cocktails capitalised Marketing spend 429 366 9 17 on consumer shifts Operating profi t before Ketel One vodka performed ahead of expectations exceptional items 1,156 907 27 Operating profi t 1,131 907 25 Marketing spend decreased as a result of media effi ciencies and a refocus away from beer and ready to drink, however Diageos share of voice in Reported performance Net sales increased by 767 million in the year ended 30 June 2009 to spirits improved 3,290 million, from 2,523 million in the prior year.
Reported operating Net sales growth of 7% in Canada was led by strong profi t before exceptional items increased by 249 million in the year ended 30 June 2009 to 1,156 million, from 907 million in the prior year.
performances of Captain Morgan rum of 19% and Operating profi t increased by 224 million in the year ended 30 June Smirnoff vodka of 10% 2009 to 1,131 million, from 907 million in the prior year.
Organic performance The weighted average exchange rate used to translate US dollar sales and profi t moved from 1 $2.01 in the year ended 30 June 2008 to 1 $1.60 in the year ended 30 June 2009.
Exchange rate impacts ready to drink stock reduction was completed successfully resulting in increased net sales by 602 million, acquisitions increased net sales net sales declines of 6% in beer and 8% in ready to drink.
The slowdown by 142 million and there was an organic increase in net sales of of the wine category, especially at price points above $25 per bottle 23 million.
Exchange rate impacts increased operating profi t by has led to a decline in Diageo wine net sales of 7%.
Overall price mix of 206 million, acquisitions increased operating profi t by 45 million 1 percentage point was achieved by strong price increases in the fi first and there was an organic decrease in operating profi t of 2 million.
half on premium brands partially off set by negative mix driven by volume declines in the higher net sales per case scotch category and Despite the economic climate, the total beverage alcohol market in ready to drink segment.
North America grew in both volume and value.
Within spirits, there has Smirnoff vodka grew as a result of higher marketing spend and been a trend for consumers to trade out of the super and ultra premium price increases on Smirnoff Red.
Marketing spend increased 2% behind segments and down to lower price segments: however the premium core growth drivers reinforcing the quality message combined with segment, where Diageo is most represented, has proved the most investment behind innovation launches on the Smirnoff Flavours range.
resilient and has gained share of the overall spirits category.
As Johnnie Walker was impacted by the economic climate that led consumer demand slowed stock levels reduced in aggregate across the to the total scotch category declining 3% in value with weaker whole supply chain.
Spirits stocks with distributors at the end of June performance in the deluxe segment.
Johnnie Walker Red Label net 2009 were higher when compared to June 2008, although there has sales declined 2% and Black Label declined 7% but both gained share been a signifi cant reduction in absolute levels since December.
Stock of their segments while maintaining price premiums.
In the super levels held by retailers are down year on year.
The planned beer and deluxe segment, Johnnie Walker Blue Label experienced double digit Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2009 41 Organic Organic Reported Reported volume net sales volume net sales movement movement movement movement Brand performance % % % % Global priority brands 2 2 2 22 Local priority brands 1 19 47 Category brands 6 11 6 36 Total 1 4 30 Key spirits brands: Smirnoff 1 6 1 30 Johnnie Walker 6 8 6 14 Captain Morgan 3 7 3 32 Baileys 5 5 5 16 Jos Cuervo 3 4 3 30 Tanqueray 12 12 12 10 Crown Royal 1 1 1 23 Guinness 11 6 11 15 Ready to drink 10 8 10 14 Brand additions in the year ended 30 June 2008 Ketel One vodka and Rosenblum Cellars wine are included in local priority brands while Zacapa rum is included in category brands.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
declines and marketing spend was re-directed towards of Seagrams 7.
This was off set by the decline in US wines, in Johnnie Walker Black Label.
Investment behind the Strides particular on Chalone wines, as consumers traded down from marketing campaign and driving loyalty through relationship higher price points.
To off set this, Diageo wines increased marketing have led to strong improvements across key brand promotional activity in the second half and launched a number equity measures.
of new products at price-points of $10 and below.
Captain Morgan had a strong year, delivering volume and Category brand volume grew 6% and net sales grew 11% net sales growth and share gains.
Four percentage points of refl ecting the opportunities presented by Diageos broad brand positive price mix was delivered through price increases on range.
Croc vodka continued its strong growth trajectory, as a Original Spiced Rum and the launch of the higher priced Captain result of the combination of Diageo, Sean Combs and the brand Morgan 100.
Increased marketing spend behind the Got a little itself, and grew volume 137% and net sales 159%.
At the other Captain in you television campaign led to share gains in the rum end of the pricing spectrum and capitalising on the consumer category and improved brand equity scores.
shift towards value brands were Gordons gin with net sales up The liqueur category has been among the hardest hit in the 9%, Gordons vodka up 11% and Popov vodka up 14%.
current economic environment and Baileys net sales declined Ready to drink net sales declined 8% as a result of segment but share was maintained.
The decline of Original Irish Cream decline and the planned stock reduction.
Diageo continued to was partially off set by the successful launch of Baileys with a hint innovate in this segment with the launch of several new Smirnoff of Coff ee.
Ice fl avours and a range of ready to serve Smirnoff Cocktails, Jos Cuervo grew volume 3% and net sales 4%.
Share gains refl ecting the trend for increased at-home consumption.
on Jos Cuervo Gold driven by an increase in distribution points Marketing spend for the year decreased 9% due to a and the launch of Jos Cuervo Silver more than off set weakness reduction of investment behind those brands and segments in the on-trade.
most impacted by the current economic climate and media rate Tanqueray net sales declined 12% in line with volumes as defl ation.
While investment behind ready to drink, beer and price increases on the core London Dry variant were off set by Tanqueray decreased, proven growth drivers elsewhere in the faster declines on the higher priced variants Tanqueray No.
10 brand range were fully supported, in particular on Captain and Rangpur.
Marketing investment was reduced as spend was Morgan, Croc vodka and innovation launches.
Overall, Diageos re-directed to fund proven growth drivers on other brands.
share of voice of total spirits advertising spend increased Crown Royal volume and net sales declined 1%.
net sales growth on the core variant was more than off set by the Canada has also been aff ected by the global economic poor economic conditions impacting the higher priced Reserve slowdown but it has not experienced contractions on the scale and Cask 16 variants.
Crown Royal in Canada under-performed of the United States.
Price increases on core spirits together with the United States, as price increases were not followed by the increased marketing spend behind Smirnoff and Captain Morgan competition leading to price gaps at retail that impacted volume.
Guinness net sales declined 6% as a result of three factors: Gross margin was adversely aff ected by input cost increases, the planned stock reduction, consumers trading out of the the negative mix eff ect of consumers trading down within higher priced imported beer segment and into domestic beer, brands and the volume decline of higher gross margin segments and overall weakness in the on-trade which particularly impacted and categories such as ready to drink, scotch and liqueurs.
Price increases on both keg and packaged Guinness increases on core variants taken in the fi first half plus reductions in contributed 5 percentage points of price mix.
overall marketing spend combined to deliver constant operating Local priority brands grew volume 1% and held net sales fl at profi t for the year.
driven by the organic contribution of Ketel One vodka and sales Diageo Annual Report 2009 42 Operating results 2009 Key highlights The region was severely impacted by the economic downturn, with conditions in Spain and Ireland deteriorating signifi cantly Europe Great Britain out-performed a declining total beverage alcohol market, growing net sales despite the diffi cult trading environment Russia net sales grew 1% following a strong fi first half although the worsening economic conditions in the second half led to consumers trading down, driving negative mix.
In response to this trend, smaller bottle sizes at lower price points were introduced In a declining beer category, Guinness performed well with fl at net sales across the region and grew share in the on-trade in Great Britain and Ireland supported by the 250th Anniversary and Alive Inside campaigns Key measures Organic Reported 2009 2008 movement movement million million % % Volume 6 6 Net sales 2,750 2,630 5 5 Marketing spend 419 438 14 4 Operating profi t before exceptional items 856 798 1 7 Operating profi t 790 720 1 10 Reported performance The performance in Ireland was impacted by the continued decline Net sales increased by 120 million in the year ended 30 June 2009 to of the total beverage alcohol market where volume declined by 4% 2,750 million, from 2,630 million in the prior year.
Reported operating and value by 3%.
Against this, Guinness net sales were fl at as Diageo profi t before exceptional items increased by 58 million in the year maintained investment behind the brand with the 250th Anniversary ended 30 June 2009 to 856 million, from 798 million in the prior year.
and the Alive inside campaigns.
For the second consecutive year Operating profi t increased by 70 million in the year ended 30 June Guinness grew share in the key Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland 2009 to 790 million, from 720 million in the prior year.
In Spain volume was down 21% and net sales were down 20% in Organic performance line with market trends following the steep decline in the economy The weighted average exchange rate used to translate euro sales from mid-November onwards.
Rising unemployment, lower consumer and profi t moved from 1 1.36 in the year ended 30 June 2008 to confi dence and spending power reduced demand across consumer 1 1.17 in the year ended 30 June 2009.
Exchange rate impacts categories and led to a shift from on-trade to offtrade impacting spirits increased net sales by 260 million, acquisitions increased net sales by consumption.
Signifi cant fide-stocking occurred as limited credit 6 million and there was an organic decrease in net sales of 146 million.
availability in the market led to some wholesalers being unable to fund Exchange rate impacts increased operating profi t by 66 million, their stock.
acquisitions decreased operating profi t by 2 million and there was In Russia volume was up 2% and net sales were up 1% following an organic decrease in operating profi t of 6 million.
a strong fi first half performance.
Johnnie Walker remained the key brand and accounted for almost 50% of net sales.
Price mix was down In Great Britain net sales were up 2% driven by strong spirits and wine 1 percentage point as consumers traded down from deluxe to standard performance and Diageo gained share of beer in the on-trade scotch and both Johnnie Walker Red Label and White Horse grew share.
and of spirits and wine in the offtrade.
Bells and Baileys performed In many markets in Eastern Europe Diageos key brands gained share.
strongly with both brands gaining share in the on-trade and offtrade Smirnoff vodka net sales were down 6% with declines in Great following a robust Christmas.
Smirnoff vodka net sales declined 3% Britain and Spain partially off set by net sales growth in Continental as the brand came under increased pressure from heavily promoted Europe.
Smirnoff continued to be the number one premium spirit in competitor brands.
Great Britain and grew share in Ireland.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2009 43 Organic Organic Reported Reported volume net sales volume net sales movement movement movement movement Brand performance % % % % Global priority brands 8 6 8 4 Local priority brands 6 6 6 4 Category brands 1 2 1 8 Total 6 5 6 5 Key spirits brands: Smirnoff 8 6 8 Johnnie Walker 5 4 5 7 Baileys 9 10 9 J&B 13 13 13 Guinness 6 6 8 Ready to drink 17 11 17 2 Brand additions in the year ended 30 June 2008 Ketel One vodka, Rosenblum Cellars wine and Zacapa rum are included in category brands.
Johnnie Walker net sales decreased by 4% mainly driven by Local priority brand net sales were down 6% driven by Cacique the performance in Spain and Russia.
The brand continued and Cardhu in Iberia and the agency beer brands in Ireland to perform well in Greece where Johnnie Walker Black Label partially off set by Harp, which benefi ted from the continued grew net sales by 14% following the successful launch of the rollout of Harp Ice Cold.
Bells had good net sales and volume anniversary pack supported by the Strides and Crossroads growth in Great Britain, driven by the launch of Bells Original supported by a marketing programme called The Spirit of campaigns.
The brand benefi ted from price increases in all markets leading to positive price mix in the region.
Arthur Bell which included television, newspaper and direct Baileys net sales were down 10%.
The overall decline of the mail advertising.
brand was mainly due to performance in Iberia, where net sales Category brand volume was down 1% and net sales were down 2% with declines in most markets off set by growth in declined in line with the category.
In Great Britain both Baileys Original and the Baileys Flavours variants grew volume and net Blossom Hill in Great Britain and growth of White Horse scotch sales with positive price mix following the successful launch in Russia.
Ready to drink volume was down 17% as the segment continued to decline.
Smirnoff Ice volume was down 20% in J&B volume and net sales were down 13%, principally due to performance in Iberia where the economic environment has Great Britain although the brand grew share in the on-trade.
driven a signifi cant decline in consumption and customer Marketing spend was down 14% across the region stock levels.
particularly driven by Spain and Ireland, countries where the economic conditions were harder and the beverage alcohol In Great Britain Guinness has now delivered 30 consecutive months of volume share growth in the on-trade and therefore consumption declined more signifi cantly.
despite the diffi cult on-trade beer segment, net sales of Guinness declined only 1%.
In the second half net sales were fl at, while the beer market continued to decline driven by the switch from on-trade to offtrade and the increase in beer duty.
This share gain was driven by the execution of a new strategy to focus on less frequent purchasers, investment behind the 250th Anniversary and the 17:59 and Alive inside campaigns.
In Ireland net sales were also fl at and Guinness grew share in key on-trade channels.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 44 Operating results 2009 Key highlights Volume growth in Africa and price increases in both Africa and Latin America drove net sales growth of 7% Volume and net sales growth in Venezuela, Mexico and Brazil, the three largest markets in Latin America off set declines in the duty free channel in Latin International America and in the Caribbean Strong growth in beer with volume up 5% and net sales up 17% Pressure on the Global Travel business due to declining passenger numbers and customer fide-stocking Marketing spend effi ciencies in Latin America and the transition of spend on ready to drink, cider and beer brands into the new South Africa joint venture off set increases on beer and ready to Key measures drink elsewhere in Africa Organic Reported 2009 2008 movement movement million million % % Volume 4 4 Net sales 2,286 1,971 7 16 Marketing spend 256 244 3 5 Operating profi t before exceptional items 645 593 10 9 Operating profi t 623 593 10 5 Reported performance Similarly Africa accounts for 90% of beer net sales in the region and Net sales increased by 315 million in the year ended 30 June 2009 to performed strongly driven by Guinness, local beer brands and a strong 2,286 million, from 1,971 million in the prior year.
Although growth slowed in the second half of the profi t before exceptional items increased by 52 million in the year year as the region started to be impacted by the global economic ended 30 June 2009 to 645 million, from 593 million in the prior year.
downturn, volume was up 2% and net sales grew 16%.
Operating profi t increased by 30 million in the year ended 30 June Global Travel continued to be impacted as global economic 2009 to 623 million, from 593 million in the prior year.
weakness led to a decline in passenger numbers and fide-stocking in travel retail.
Lower volume in the super deluxe segment led to negative Organic performance mix.
In the Middle East, volume grew 3% and net sales grew 6% Exchange rate impacts increased net sales by 156 million, acquisitions primarily from the growth in standard scotch.
increased net sales by 2 million and there was an organic increase in Smirnoff vodka volume was fl at and net sales were up 9%.
Volume net sales of 157 million.
Exchange rate impacts decreased operating performance was driven by growth in Brazil and South Africa off set profi t by 5 million and there was an organic increase in operating profi t by declines in the Global Travel and Middle East business and the of 57 million.
Net sales growth was driven by price increases in Brazil and South Africa.
Continued strong performance in Africa and net sales growth in Latin Johnnie Walker volume declined by 12% and net sales by 3%.
America drove International performance as Global Travel was Johnnie Walker Red Label grew net sales following strong growth in impacted by the global economic weakness.
Mexico while Johnnie Walker Black Label net sales were fl at.
Super In International 70% of scotch net sales are in Latin America where deluxe variants net sales declined as growth in Latin America, Africa signifi cant price increases were taken in the fi first half to off set the impact and the Middle East was off set by declines in Global Travel.
of major devaluations of local currencies.
The strengthening of the Baileys net sales declined 11% as growth in Venezuela and Africa US dollar particularly impacted the US dollar priced duty free business was off set by the slowdown in the duty free channel.
In the second half a number of these currencies have Buchanans net sales grew by 2% with strong volume and net sales strengthened easing volume pressure, and prices have been growth in Venezuela, the brands biggest market with net sales up 24% moderated in line with the currency movement.
In Venezuela, Mexico and in Mexico where net sales were up 28%.
Volume and net sales and Brazil volume and net sales grew with strong performances of saw declines in the duty free channel in Latin America as a result of Buchanans, Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff ready to drink.
fide-stocking and credit and currency issues impacted performance.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2009 45 Organic Organic Reported Reported volume net sales volume net sales movement movement movement movement Brand performance % % % % Global priority brands 5 5 5 12 Local priority brands 9 20 Category brands 5 11 5 20 Total 4 7 4 16 Key spirits brands: Smirnoff 9 17 Johnnie Walker 12 3 12 2 Baileys 16 11 16 5 Buchanans 15 2 15 18 Guinness 2 15 2 28 Ready to drink 6 13 6 23 Brand additions in the year ended 30 June 2008 Ketel One vodka, Rosenblum Cellars wine and Zacapa rum are included in category brands.
Guinness volume was up 2% and net sales grew 15% driven by Ghana faced a challenging year as a result of the economic the continued performance of the brand in Africa where volume environment and water shortages in the fi first half which led to was up 4% and net sales up 18%.
Strong double-digit net sales constrained production and a full year volume decline of 6%.
growth was achieved in Nigeria, Ghana and East Africa supported Strong pricing led to net sales growth of 24% as price increases by on-trade promotion around English Premier League football.
were taken to cover off the increase in cost of goods arising as Local priority brands net sales grew 9% with consistent a result of the devaluation of the Cedi.
There was 7% volume and Cameroon performed well with volume up 17% and net 15% net sales growth in Africa, notably from Malta Guinness in sales up 19%.
Volume performance was driven by Guinness, Nigeria, Pilsner and Tusker in East Africa and Bells in South Africa.
Saltzenbrau and the successful launch of Smirnoff Ice in Price increases across the region off set the impact of the volume November.
Net sales grew two percentage points ahead of decline on scotch in Latin America.
volume as price increases on Guinness off set the small price Category brand net sales were up 11% primarily as a result of decrease on Malta Quench, which brought it in line with Harp in Nigeria, Cacique in Venezuela, Senator in East Africa and competitor brands.
In Mexico strong volume and net sales growth of Johnnie Ready to drink volume increased by 6% and net sales grew Walker and Buchanans drove overall scotch net sales up 38% and 13% on price increases on Smirnoff ready to drink brands in most maintained Diageos leadership position in the scotch category.
markets and volume gains in Latin America, especially Brazil, and In Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil volume declines in scotch in Nigeria.
Volume growth in Brazil, Nigeria and Cameroon off set were partially off set by growth in Smirnoff vodka while net sales a volume decrease in South Africa where the ready to drink grew as price increases, particularly on scotch brands were made segment declined compared to the prior year.
Positive channel mix with stronger In a tough trading environment East Africa grew net sales volumes from the higher value Brazil domestic channel helped 6%.
Excise duty increases on non-malted beer led to declining to grow the top line.
volumes of Allsopps and Citizen though overall beer volumes Strong performance of deluxe and super deluxe scotch were up driven by Guinness, Tusker and Senator.
Further excise along with Cacique growth ahead of the rum category drove duty increases negatively impacted the spirits category with volume and net sales growth in Venezuela.
Johnnie Walker, total spirits net sales declining 8%.
Buchanans and Old Parr all grew net sales by double digits Nigeria had a strong performance with volume up 22% as price increases were put through in line with Diageos and net sales up 30% driven by Guinness, Malta Guinness and scotch strategy.
Harp which all took price increases in the period.
Smirnoff Ice Marketing spend in the region declined by 3% as increased performed well with volume up over 50% while Malta Guinness spend in Nigeria and Cameroon was off set by effi ciencies in Latin continued to benefi t from the bottle relaunch in 2008.
America and the transfer of ready to drink, cider and beer brand South Africas global and local priority brands grew whilst spend to the new South African venture.
category brands declined as a result of the focus on driving value in scotch.
Smirnoff vodka drove global priority brand growth while growth in local priority brands was driven by Bells, which grew share and maintained its position as the number one scotch in South Africa.
Diageo Annual Report 2009 46 Operating results 2009 Key highlights Net sales declines were primarily driven by the impact of the excise duty increase on ready to drink products in Australia Declining consumer confi dence and supply chain inventory reductions have impacted performance particularly in China and South East Asia Top and bottom line growth in Korea and share gains for Windsor following the return Asia Pacifi c to in-market company distribution Price mix benefi t of 7 percentage points came from the return to in-market distribution in Korea and strong price increases on scotch brands off set by negative product mix from lower volume in the higher net sales per case ready to drink segment Key measures Marketing spend decreased 5% although Organic Reported investment behind spirits grew 7% refl ecting 2009 2008 movement movement million million % % the importance of this category to future Volume 11 11 growth of the region Net sales 910 877 4 4 Marketing spend 208 191 5 9 Operating profi t before exceptional items 164 170 4 Operating profi t 128 170 25 Reported performance Johnnie Walker Black Label and super deluxe were down 13% as they Net sales increased by 33 million in the year ended 30 June 2009 to were disproportionately aff ected by the weakness of the traditional 910 million, from 877 million in the prior year.
Reported operating on-trade in key markets such as China and South East Asia.
The profi t before exceptional items decreased by 6 million in the year successful launch of Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve across the ended 30 June 2009 to 164 million, from 170 million in the prior year.
region provided a new premium off ering for the brand and partially Operating profi t decreased by 42 million in the year ended 30 June mitigated declines in the super deluxe segment.
2009 to 128 million, from 170 million in the prior year.
Bundaberg rum in Australia benefi ted from consumers trading out of the ready to drink segment but remaining loyal to the brand, and Organic performance delivered 17% volume growth.
Price increases implemented in the fi first Exchange rate impacts increased net sales by 74 million, acquisitions half taken together with the successful launch of the premium priced increased net sales by 1 million and there was an organic decrease in Bundaberg Red combined to deliver 12 percentage points of price mix net sales of 42 million.
Exchange rate impacts decreased operating and share gains.
profi t by 6 million and there was no organic movement Windsor continued to grow share in its largest market of Korea, in operating profi t. more than off setting the scotch category decline and also benefi ted from the return of in-market distribution to deliver net sales growth of Smirnoff vodka grew volume 1% and net sales 13% in the region led 23% in Korea.
Price increases on the main 12 and 17 year-old variants by a strong performance from Australia, which grew volume 12% and plus the introduction of a new bottle design led to Windsor ending net sales 38%.
Strong price mix was delivered by price increases taken the year as the clear number one scotch brand in Korea having gained in the fi first half combined with positive mix from the strong volume 5 percentage points of share.
growth of the higher priced Smirnoff Black variant due to the Guinness grew net sales 6% as the brand proved resilient in the successful Bond activation.
turbulent economic environment, growing 11% in its largest market of Johnnie Walker performance across the region was heavily South East Asia.
impacted by the economic slowdown, which impacted consumer Australia remained the key market for Diageos ready to drink confi dence and led to weakness in the on-trade and supply chain brands in Asia Pacifi c. A 70% duty increase on spirit-based ready to drink inventory reductions in key markets.
Within the variants, Johnnie Walker brands imposed by the Australian government in April 2008 resulted in Red Label performed well in the standard segment with net sales down a decrease of 27% in volume and 23% in net sales in Australia this year.
6% and grew share in its largest markets of Thailand and Australia.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Operating results 2009 47 Organic Organic Reported Reported volume net sales volume net sales movement movement movement movement Brand performance % % % % Global priority brands 14 8 14 2 Local priority brands 1 8 1 8 Category brands 10 8 10 3 Total 11 4 11 4 Key spirits brands: Smirnoff 1 13 1 24 Johnnie Walker 20 12 20 1 Bundaberg rum 17 29 17 34 Windsor 3 22 3 17 Guinness 5 6 5 20 Ready to drink 26 22 26 17 Brand additions in the year ended 30 June 2008 Ketel One vodka, Rosenblum Cellars wine and Zacapa rum are included in category brands.
The impact of this duty increase was less severe in the fi final accounts for almost half of the sales of international spirits in the quarter as sales began to lap higher prices from the last market.
In addition, trade fide-stocking at the secondary and fi financial year.
tertiary tiers reduced volumes to wholesalers in the South and Local priority brands, mainly comprised of Windsor in East of the country where Johnnie Walker is strongest.
Net sales Korea and Bundaberg in Australia, grew net sales 8%.
of brands through the Diageo China organisation grew strongly Category brands net sales declined 8% primarily as a albeit from a low base as they derived the majority of sales result of volume decline in value scotch brands such as Haig in through the modern on-trade channel which has been less India and Spey Royal in Thailand in line with Diageos scotch impacted by the fi financial crisis.
In India net sales declined 3%.
Inappropriately high stock In Australia net sales declined 10% as the weakness in the levels across many brands at 31 December 2008 were fide-stocked ready to drink segment was partially off set by a 13% net sales in the second half.
For the full year the volume decline in Smirnoff increase on spirits.
This was driven by share gains on Bundaberg and Haig was only partially off set by growth in Johnnie Walker, and Johnnie Walker and a successful innovation programme on Shark Tooth and VAT 69. the Bundaberg and Smirnoff trademarks.
Excluding ready to Taiwan grew net sales 7%.
Price increases on Johnnie Walker drink, Australia grew net sales 11%.
and the continued success of The Singleton roll out combined A full year of sales through the normal route to market in to outperform the 11% volume decline in the scotch category.
Korea had a positive eff ect on price mix as volume was down Thailand saw net sales decline 3% but recorded share gains 3% but net sales were up 16% refl ecting higher net sales per case on Johnnie Walker Red and Black Labels, Benmore and Smirnoff.
rates than in the comparable period.
The two main brands in Marketing spend declined 5% overall as a result of the Korea, Windsor and Johnnie Walker, both grew volume and net reduction in spend behind ready to drink in Australia.
However, sales, more than off setting scotch category declines.
investment behind spirits increased 7% refl ecting the benefi t of In China, low consumer confi dence levels severely impacted the transfer of advertising spend back to the in-market company consumption occasions as consumers reduced purchase in Korea and the importance of this category to future growth.
frequency, especially in the traditional on-trade channel which
