Directors Report: Business Overview Group at a Glance Underlying sales by division UK & Ireland 4,228.6m Nordics 1,625.2m Other International 1,565.8m e-commerce 807.4m Our brands Description Highlights The UK and Irelands biggest specialist Currys opened its flagship 55,000 sq ft Megastore and refitted a number electricals chain, combining Currys of Superstores and Currys.
It also launched further services Megastores and Superstores and for customers including next-day delivery and market leading three-hour Currys.
digital on the high street.
Travel stores are based at UK airports During the year, Dixons Tax Free rebranded as Dixons Travel and new and the Eurotunnel terminal.
format stores were introduced, including a first PC World airport store Ireland operates as Currys and at Heathrow, Terminal 5.
PC World is the UKs biggest chain of PC World unveiled its new store concept which helps customers get computing superstores.
DSGi Business the most out of their shopping trip with numerous experience zones is the specialist provider of business to try out hundreds of products throughout the store.
Get Connected, IT solutions comprising PC World a market-beating mobile broadband proposition was launched, offering the Business, Equanet, MacWarehouse biggest range of subsidised or free laptops and netbooks.
The TechGuys are being made to The TechGuys operations to provide improved choices are the UKs largest national digital and services for customers.
support service for customers in-store and in their homes.
Elkjp is the leading electrical retailer At the start of the year, Elkjp opened a new Megastore in Lrenskog across the Nordics.
Offering customers significantly increased ranges, it has had a strong first years trading with positive customer feedback.
A further Elkjp and Lefdal stores operate in two Megastores have been opened in the Nordics during the year.
Norway, El Giganten stores operate in Sweden and Denmark and Gigantti stores operate in Finland.
Greeces leading electrical retailer Greece grew market share in a challenging market and Turkey performed operates as Kotsovolos and in line with expectations.
The turnaround plan in Italy is showing progress Electro World.
Electro World with encouraging signs in a difficult economic environment.
A store closure stores also operate in Turkey.
programme concluded ahead of schedule, and management have made significant improvements in a number of areas, including stock levels, In Italy, we operate UniEuro electrical availability and margins.
In Spain, a plan to reduce costs, manage stocks stores, some with PC City storesand preserve cash has been implemented.
PC City also operates in Spain.
Electro World stores operate in the Operations in the Czech Republic continue to perform well despite the weak Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia.
The Groups first stores in Slovakia have performed in line with expectations.
In May, the Group announced it had sold the operations of Electro World Hungary, confirming at the same time that Poland remains under strategic review.
com is a pan-European PIXmania performed well in most of its key markets, although sales growth online electrical retailer.
was impacted by the slowing consumer environment, and sales in the UK were held back by the strength of the euro.
co. uk is one of the leading UK electrical e-tailers.
co. uk continues to improve its consumer proposition which will be bolstered further when it transitions to the PIXmania e-merchant platform.
6 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 e-commerce Other International Nordics UK & Ireland Central Europe Southern Europe UK Computing UK & Ireland Electricals Business Overview Performance Review Strategic Summary Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Countries we operate in Stores and online presence Online presence only Stores only Average selling Website Underlying sales Stores Selling space area per store Employees million 000 sq ft sq ft www.
co. uk DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 09 7
