ANNUAL REPORT AND 2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Manufacturers need to code their products AT A GLANCE for a variety of reasons including compliance GLOBAL REACH with legislation, providing consumer or user information, improving operational performance or improving branding and personalisation.
Dominos technologies print directly onto products and onto primary, secondary and tertiary packaging.
OUR PRINTING SOLUTIONS Primary Packaging 1 UNITED KINGDOM The UK is the Domino Groups global headquarters Domino businesses provide a wide range of products utilising ink jet, laser including its principal manufacturing sites as well as its and thermal printing technologies for product and package coding and global R&D operations.
The UK sales and service business marking.
Continuous Ink Jet CIJ brands include Domino, Citronix and also operates out of the Cambridge site.
These products provide reliable, versatile printing capability operating in a wide range of production environments and applications.
2 EUROPE Laser products sold under the Domino, Sator and Photon Energy brands The Group has subsidiary offices in France, Germany, use both gas and solid state laser technologies to meet the exacting the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Sweden and requirements of parts marking in addition to general packaging Denmark.
Elsewhere, customers are supported through a applications.
Thermal Transfer Overprinting TTO products offered by network of well established distributors.
both Domino and Easyprint are typically used where products are enclosed in flexible packaging such as pouches and wrappers.
3 ASIA PACIFIC Thermal Ink Jet TIJ products are the latest addition to the Groups Domino has subsidiary operations in China, India and product range.
APS Apsolute printers are sold alongside Domino brand South Korea with an established base of distributors TIJ G-Series products and provide customers with high print quality serving other regional markets.
Products destined for the offering both alphanumeric and machine readable barcode and similar Asia Pacific region are manufactured in Dominos facility in coding capability.
Domino also has manufacturing facilities in Delhi, India which serve the local market.
Complementing our printing capability, Purex air purification systems are offered to provide cost effective extraction of fumes and particles created 4 NORTH AMERICA by the laser coding process.
The Domino Group is well established in North America with subsidiaries in Canada, USA and Mexico.
In addition Secondary Packaging to full sales and service coverage across North America, the Group has fluids and printer manufacturing facilities in Printing onto cartons, cardboard boxes, trays and other secondary the USA.
levels of packaging, the Group offers a range of products under the Domino, Alpha Dot and Mectec brands aimed at providing high quality 5 barcodes and graphics as well as standard alphanumeric coding.
SOUTH AMERICA The Domino range includes Drop on Demand DOD ink jet Group companies have a network of well established technologies using both valve and piezo technologies alongside distributors providing sales and service support M-Series Print and Apply Labelling Machines PALM for volume throughout South America.
The Mectec brand of PALM products additionally operate to common standards which means that provides solutions to meet more complex applications including larger multinational companies and OEMs are assured of a high scale end of line pallet labelling.
Both Domino and Mectec PALM standard of support wherever they may be located.
systems offer RFID enabled solutions for product traceability.
6 MIDDLE EAST Dominos Middle East operations, based in Dubai, support local sales in the United Arab Emirates and Dominos Digital Printing Solutions network of distributors throughout the Middle East and Africa.
Dominos Digital Printing solutions meet the needs of the binding, finishing, plastic card and newspaper industries to print addresses, barcodes and numbers onto products at very high speed and near letter quality.
Domino offers both single jet and binary CIJ solutions alongside DOD and TIJ based products.
Digital Printing applications also often require data management and line control.
Dominos Editor GT controller solutions provide the perfect complement to our printers offering customers full control of all aspects of their printing and finishing operations.
ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 3 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Dominos G-Series range of printers offers the only Thermal Ink Jet TIJ solution with the ability to print with solvent and water based fluids onto a variety of substrates Through a global network of 24 subsidiary offices and in excess of 200 distributors, Domino sells to over 120 countries offering extensive customer support.
TURNOVER BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2 2,070 200 Worldwide employees Global distributors 24 120 International subsidiary offices Domino sells to over 120 countries 4 1 NORTH AMERICA UNITED KINGDOM 3 20% EUROPE 7% 42% 6 MIDDLE EAST 5% ASIA PACIFIC 5 23% SOUTH AMERICA 3% ANNUAL REPORT AND 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 Operating with true global scale across a AT A GLANCE diverse industry base, including food, beverage, SECTOR pharmaceutical and multiple industrial COVERAGE product groups, Domino provides customers with proven solutions built upon years of extensive experience.
Food Beverage With over 30 years experience in A range of ink colours ensures legibility As a preferred supplier to major white inks for darker backgrounds working with leading food and outstanding contrast as well as OEMs and multi-national beverage providing excellent contrast.
manufacturers, the Domino Group has odour free inks for printing onto companies, the Domino Group has a developed a range of coding solutions products and permeable packaging.
good understanding of the specific Dominos A-Series plus Pinpoint small that can print directly onto food and requirements of beverage character printer provides a food packaging, setting the industry For flexible packs and flow wrap manufacturers.
permanent scratch resistant solution, standard for print quality, consistency applications, the superior adhesion with excellent adhesion to high density and reliability.
characteristics of Dominos codes on Using this knowledge, the Group has plastic for printing on to bottle caps.
plastics, foils and laminate, ensures that developed a range of CIJ, piezo DOD Specialist food grade printers and fast the print remains legible when flexed.
and valve jet DOD, scribing and dot In addition to primary coding drying, self-disinfecting inks, with Dominos TTO products provide a matrix lasers and PALM products that solutions, the Domino Group also approvals for both FDA and EU use, highly efficient solution in high volume provide reliable, high speed and cost provides a supply chain compliant provide high quality coding directly manufacturing environments.
range of solutions for outer cases, onto food such as ice cream, cheese shrink wrapped trays and pallets with and confectionary products as well as Key applications include coding onto GS1 compliant codes.
Modular systems coding directly onto egg shells.
A-Series PET, with tuned scribing lasers ensure seamless integration into Egg Coder, providing non-contact, high providing a high quality permanent existing production lines.
quality printing onto curved surfaces, code: Labels, printing at very high integrates seamlessly with all speed with both ink jet and laser mainstream egg grading machines.
technologies: Cans, using a range of inks providing superb metal adhesion: Glass, with excellent adhesion even on wet glass with specialist inks, as well as ANNUAL REPORT AND DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2009 5 OVERVIEW BUSINESS CORPORATE FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS Pharmaceutical Parts marking Domino offers a range of solutions by vision systems, printing real time Companies involved in parts marking Parts marking utilises an extensive specific to the pharmaceutical, medical and variable data, graphics, bar codes demand high performance in some of range of substrates, including various devices, wound care, vision care, including RSS and Data Matrix and the harshest environments, with very metals and plastics.
The Domino veterinary and consumer healthcare interfacing with RFID programming specialist applications.
The Domino Group has a range of technologies to industries.
Dominos pharmaceutical equipment to allow the use of RFID or Group, with experience in both ink jet suit the needs of this market.
Both specialists work with manufacturers to serialised product tracking.
and laser technologies, can provide CO and solid state lasers are capable 2 understand the needs of the industry solutions to meet these challenges.
of marking either flat or shaped parts.
and identify the coding and traceability Solutions include embossing With specialist inks and experience in Specialist inks, including dye based, solutions required for each application.
replacement using laser or TIJ printers, designing complex automated coding light pigmented and heavy pigmented Domino products can be supplied with reducing the risk of incorrectly coded and marking system solutions, many are available in bright colours validation packs for GAMP and 21-CFR products reaching consumers as laser installations are custom made by our providing high contrast for camera and part 11 compliance.
and TIJ codes can be verified with experienced project teams.
scanner readability as well as fast vision systems.
drying time and excellent adhesion.
With high quality coding and consistent reliability, Domino offers a range of printers suited to a clean room environment.
Dominos CIJ, TIJ, laser and PALM solutions are capable of producing codes that are readable
