Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Ferrexpo plc Annual Registered Office: Report & 24 King Street Accounts London SW1Y 6QL 09 Producing for over 30 years www.
com Ferrexpo plc is a Swissheadquartered resources company with assets in Ukraine and is principally involved in the production and export of iron ore pellets which are used in the manufacture of steel.
Ferrexpo is committed to realising the potential of its principal asset, which is one of the largest iron ore resources in the world.
The Group produces around 9 million tonnes of iron ore pellets per year and has several large-scale growth projects in advanced stages of planning which are currently on hold pending improvements in global market conditions.
We remain committed to our aim to be a leading global supplier of iron ore pellets, providing outstanding service to our customers and strong returns to our shareholders.
As part of this commitment, Ferrexpo plc became the first Ukrainian company to be listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange ticker: FXPO following its successful Initial Public Offering on Friday 15 June 2007.
Ferrexpo plc is a constituent of the FTSE UK Index Series.
It is currently the only pure-play iron ore company listed on the LSE.
Cautionary note regarding forward-looking statements This Annual Report has been prepared for the members of the Company, as a body, and for no other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report includes statements that are forward looking in nature, particularly relating to the business, strategy, investments, production, major projects and their contribution to expected production and other plans of the Ferrexpo Group and its current goals, assumptions and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance and results.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and may be beyond our ability to control or predict.
These factors may include, but are not limited to, general economic and business conditions, industry trends, changes in government and other regulation, changes in political and economic stability, currency fluctuations and other risks, including those described in the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
Forward looking statements and past performance are therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The forward looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report.
Except as required by the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and applicable law, Ferrexpo undertakes no obligation to update or change any forward looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this document.
Nothing in this Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Company Overview Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 www.
com 01 Company Overview Highlights 2009 Company Sales Volumes Production Quality Overview IFC Activity and Mission Statements 01 Highlights 2009 Up by 3.5% Up by 7.2% 02 Our Business at a Glance 04 Chairmans and Chief Executive Production maintained at full capacity with 7.2% increase in production of high quality Officers Review sales volumes up by 3.5% 65% Fe pellets 08 Board of Directors and Executive Committee Business Revenue Pre-tax Profit Review 12 Key Performance Indicators 14 Overview US$648.7m US$80.9m 17 Operating Review 24 Financial Review Reduction in revenues mitigated by Despite difficult market conditions, 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Review increased production of 65% Ferrexpo remained profitable Fe grade pellets throughout 2009 Corporate Governance Renewal of Debt Facility EBITDA 42 Corporate Governance Report 48 Remuneration Report 56 Directors Report 60 Statement of Directors Responsibilities US$230m US$138.1m 61 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ferrexpo plc New debt facility the first successful EBITDA decreased by 72.6% to refinancing completed by a mining US$138.1m principally as a result of the group with assets in the CIS since substantial fall in iron ore pellet prices Financial September 2008 Statements Average Achieved Price Cash Costs of Production 64 Consolidated Income Statement 65 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 66 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position US$66.3 t Reducing 67 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 68 Consolidated Statement of Changes Lower settlement prices and a temporary C1 cash costs of production for the year in Equity exposure to high freight charges resulted decreased by 18.6% to US$34.4 t 69 Notes to the Consolidated in a decrease in the average achieved price Financial Information 115 Glossary 118 Shareholder information Dividend 3.3 US cents Final dividend maintained at US$19.3m 3.3 US cents per share
