Business Profile infOrma at a glance expand geographically Uk On 13th March 2009 Taylor & Francis was adjudged Informa achieved many accomplishments during Publisher of the Year by the Academic, Professional 2009, a few of which are shown on this map.
Further & Specialist Booksellers information on Informas achievements during 2009 Group of The Booksellers follows on pages 6 to 18.
Our business operates in three segments: Academic Information: pages 6 and 7 Professional & Commercial Information: pages 8 and 9 Events & Training: pages 10 and 11 USa Informa has some 150 offices in over 40 Huthwaite were included in the countries and employs approximately TrainingIndustry.
coms second 8,000 staff around the world.
annual list of Top Sales Training Companies 2009 BRazIl In 2009 Informa Brazil launched its exhibition division with the acquisition of its first event: CARDS Expo.
4 informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 Uk uk Informa Healthcare hosted the 2009 Scrip Awards which were Taylor & Francis published attended by a high number the 90th edition of the of senior executives in the leading reference book: pharmaceutical industry.
The Handbook of Chemistry 2009 awards were the most and Physics ChIna successful in the Awards history.
IIR Singapore staged the largest ever PALM EXPO Event in 2009, in Beijing, despite the economic slowdown.
Held annually, it is the worlds 2nd largest industry SaUDI aRaBIa exhibition of its kind covering professional audio, light, audio Cityscape Jeddah visual, music and technology.
This is the first large scale event Informa has organised in Saudi Arabia.
aUSTRalIa Informa Australia ran the most profitable AusRAIL ever in 2009.
This exhibition and multi-stream conference is the largest rail gathering in the region and is run on behalf of the peak body, the aSIa PaCIFIC Australasian Railway Association, and other industry organisations.
Datamonitors Asia Pacific offices grew sales which were facilitated by being part of the Informa Group.
This allows Datamonitor to leverage Informas office facilities and expertise, saving costs.
These offices are located in Sydney, Melbourne, Canberra, Seoul, Taiwan, Tokyo, Beijing, Hong Kong and Hyderabad.
for a list of our principal group offices, see page 136 informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2009 5
