4 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2009 Directors Report: Business Review KAZAKHMYS AT A GLANCE Our core business is the production and sale of copper and we operate a fully integrated process from mining ore through to the production of nished copper metal.
Kazakhmys is the 10th largest producer of copper in the world.
The production and sale of nished copper represents around 70% of the Groups mining revenue.
We also own a 26% stake in the mining company ENRC, worth $4.9 billion as at 31 December 2009.
1 Summary of Group EBITDA Summary of revenue excluding special items Kazakhmys Copper 63% Kazakhmys Copper 64% ENRC 26% MKM 28% Other 11% Kazakhmys Power 7% Kazakhmys Gold 1% 1 From continuing and discontinued operations COPPER AND OTHER METALS PRINCIPAL OPERATIONS KEY POINTS FROM 2009 Kazakhmys Copper has 15 operating mines and 10 concentrators which are spread across four regional units, Zhezkazgan, Balkhash, Karaganda and East Region.
The copper mines also produce 320kt significant quantities of silver, gold and zinc as by-products.
The grades of copper and mix of copper and by-products vary of copper cathode equivalent signicantly from mine to mine.
from own material The Group also has a Gold Division with two mines producing gold with copper as a by-product.
There are copper smelters at Balkhash and Zhezkazgan, which operate within a single smelting unit, receiving feed from the concentrators and converting it to nished cathode.
Kazakhmys Copper has its own coal mines and power stations, which ensure 149kt security and cost of power supply.
of zinc in concentrate produced The gold by-product is sold in the form of bullion and silver in the form of granules.
These are produced at a precious metals renery in Balkhash.
Zinc is produced and sold as concentrate.
OUTPUT AND GROWTH PROJECTS In 2009 the Group produced 320 kt of copper cathode from 32 MT of ore at an average grade of 1.18%.
Output is likely to remain steady over the next four years, as smaller mine extensions 16,938koz offset declining grade and output at some of the more mature of silver produced, of which 16,894 koz mines, particularly in the Zhezkazgan Region.
Production should was by-product in the Copper Division increase after that, as the Group has two substantial growth projects and several medium-sized projects, which are equivalent to around 60% of current output.
182koz of gold produced, of which 135 koz was by-product in the Copper Division p22 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A E S N A I P S A C www.
com 5 OUR KEY OPERATIONS Kazakhstan is the 9th largest country in the world, similar in size to Western Europe.
Along with copper, Kazakhstan is rich in a wide variety of resources, including oil and gas, chrome, iron ore, alumina, uranium, Kazakhstan Bozshakol Maikuben Orlovsky zinc, gold and silver.
The country has a strong Astana Ekibastuz track record in attracting Foreign Direct YubileynoArtemyevsky Snegirikhinsky Investment, which since independence Molodezhny Nikolayevsky Central Mukur Irtyshsky amounts to over $103 billion.
Kazakhstan Karaganda Region Mizek Abyz North & was the first country in the former Soviet Kusheki West Nurkazgan Akbastau Union to receive an investment-grade East Region Eastern North East credit rating.
Akzhar Annensky Aktogay Stepnoy South Sayak Zhezkazgan The natural resources of Kazakhstan, and Balkhash Complex Complex its proximity to the major global markets Zhomart of China, Europe and Russia, give the ARAL SEA country significant strategic opportunities.
Shatyrkul Almaty CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Bishkek Kazakhmys is one of the largest employers Bozymchak in Kazakhstan with 60,000 employees and Kyrgyzstan Kazakhstan revenue represents 2.5% of Kazakhstan GDP.
The Group has a strong Copper Gold mines commitment to corporate responsibility, Coal mine including investment in health and safety, Power plant improving its environmental record and Growth projects the active support of local communities.
This is set out on pages 50 to 57.
Petroleum project POWER ENRC OTHER OPERATIONS Kazakhmys is the largest power provider The Group owns 26% of ENRC PLC, MKM in Kazakhstan, producing over 13% which was worth $4,879 million on MKM, based in Hettstedt, Germany, of national output.
14.6% of the produces rened copper products Copper there are three power stations holding was purchased in October 2007, and manufactures and sells a variety providing power to the copper facilities.
before ENRC listed on the London Stock of pre-nished and semi-nished copper There is a separate Power Division Exchange.
The rest of the holding was and copper alloy products, including containing the Ekibastuz GRES-1 coal-red acquired between July and October 2008. wires, sheets, plate strips, tubes and bars.
Since February 2010 Ekibastuz The holding was bought at a total cost of These are sold primarily to customers GRES-1 has been jointly owned with $3,834 million.
The investment in ENRC in the construction, automotive, aviation Samruk.
Three power stations provide diversies the Groups earnings and and general engineering industries power to the copper facilities.
through its worldwide sales team.
MKM Ekibastuz GRES-1 is the biggest power ENRC is a mining company with its purchases its copper from independent station in Kazakhstan and one of the principal operations in Kazakhstan and traders.
At the end of 2009, the decision largest coal power plants in the world.
is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
was made to sell the business.
Five out of eight blocks at Ekibastuz The Kazchrome division is one of the PETROLEUM GRES-1 are currently operational and largest producers of ferrochrome in Kazakhmys Petroleum consists of the between them have annual capacity the world.
The iron ore division produces 2 602km Eastern Akzhar exploration of 2,500 MW.
The plant is undergoing and sells iron ore concentrate and pellets, block, on the eastern fringe of the oil rich a major refurbishment to return it to and the aluminium division trades alumina Caspian depression.
Eastern Akzhar is in its installed capacity of 4,000 MW.
close proximity to the Loktibai-Kenkiyak This will require around $1 billion of oil pipeline and the Kenkiyak-Atyrau capital investment over the next seven gas pipeline.
Ownership of Ekibastuz GRES-1 During 2009 analysis was made of the ensures power supply for all our future seismic surveys and the first two deep growth projects.
Further drilling and Maikuben West is an open cast coal mine, analysis will be carried out in 2010. producing 3.7 MT in 2009.
It supplies about 25% of the required coal for Ekibastuz GRES-1, as well as supplying coal to external customers.
p27 p31 p29 Directors Report: Business Review STRATEGIC REVIEW 8 Chairmans Statement 9 Our Markets 11 Our Strategy 12 Chief Executives Review ZHEZKAZGAN COMPLEX SMELTING FACILITY Zhezkazgan provides around 35% of the Groups cathode output.
