04 Keller Group plc Year at a glance We hope that this glance across the year will provide some insight into the various dimensions of our business and the many ingredients which went into our 2009 performance.
January April Road and rail projects accounted for much Between the months of February and of our work in 2009.
Olden, our 2008 US June, Keller Grundbau was engaged in acquisition, secured a contract from the filling tunnels and cavities from disused Texas Department of Transport to provide mine shafts beneath an area of Germanys temporary shoring and permanent tiebacks Dortmund Zoo.
As our operatives went along Highway 14 and Loop 12.
Their about their work, involving extensive work formed part of a project to widen drilling and injecting around 5,000 m of and improve existing traffic lanes and binder into the voids, they attracted an to accommodate expansion of light rail unlikely audience from the zoos resident through the area pictured above left.
kangaroo and llama populations pictured above right.
February May A contract to install continuous flight augur The award of a contract for the Khalifa foundations, undertaken by Case and HJ, Port site in Abu Dhabi was an opportunity got underway in Indiana, US.
Our works to put to work our twin-rigged S-700 formed part of a major modernisation vibrators.
This Keller-designed equipment, project at the Whiting Oil Refinery, the built in our German facility, was used to fourth largest refinery in the US.
This was improve the silty sand reclamation fill, one of several successful partnerships using two different vibro techniques.
The between these two businesses, illustrating Port is expected to replace Abu Dhabis the value of sharing expertise and largest existing port, Mina Zayed, by 2012. resources to tackle large and complex jobs.
March June The first module of the 2009 Keller Work commenced at the Florida Power Academy held in Graz, Austria, offered & Light solar power plant in Florida, US young engineers from across Europe where HJ installed continuous flight augur the opportunity to come together for piling to support solar panel columns.
With two weeks of practical instruction in HJs most senior general superintendent, Kellers geotechnical techniques.
The Al Cover pictured far right on facing page Academy, comprising two modules on the job, there was a high degree of developed by and for Keller, is proving confidence that the contract would be to be a unique way of supplementing delivered on time and to budget.
Al and the technical knowledge of recentlyhis team did not disappoint.
graduated engineers with practical, Keller-specific experience.
Keller Group plc 05 July October 31 July was a significant date for Keller, We welcomed into the Group the marking the retirement of the Companys management and employees of Chairman, Dr Michael West, whose Singapore-based Resource Piling, with outstanding contribution to the Group over this autumn acquisition which added 45 years is described on page 6.
As critical mass to our operations in the souvenirs of the business, Justin Atkinson, region.
Resource is a specialist foundation Chief Executive, presented Dr West contractor with particular expertise in pictured above, left, with two unique large diameter bored piling in soft clays.
pieces of artwork crafted from original Keller With an excellent local reputation, components dating back to the 1950s.
Resource has worked on some of Singapores most prestigious projects.
August November A jet grouting contract to reinforce the Engineers from around the Group gathered ground below new LNG tanks for a major in Germany to attend the Groups deep oil company at Arzew in Algeria got soil mixing DSM conference, a two-day underway in the summer.
Employing a event which enabled product specialists double-jet system, a technique which had to share their experiences and review best not previously been used in the country, practice.
Like many of the technologies field operatives from our Algerian business that we transfer between our markets, were supported by experienced teams DSM is progressively gaining wider sent from the UK, Germany and France acceptance around the world, as the together, a truly international brigade.
range of applications for which it is suitable expands.
September December Passers-by on London, UKs The end of the year marked the driving of Northumberland Avenue one late our final pile at the Gateway Duplication September morning may have spotted contract which, at a value of A$110m, is this Keller Geotechnique rig raised high thought to be the largest-ever foundations above the citys skyline pictured above, contract in Australia.
All four of our local middle.
Sites are seldom more restricted companies were engaged in this highly than at the new Corinthia Hotel, with its successful project, which spanned a 1850s facade hiding cramped corridors period of 22 months, creating an important leading to a central courtyard, from which precedent for future partnerships between the structure was to be underpinned.
Installing seven rigs at this confined location called for creative planning.
