Lamprell is located in the UAE in the Arabian Lamprell Gulf, one of the most important oil and gas regions in the world.
The Group has four at a Glance facilities in three locations in the UAE and a facility in Thailand.
The development of a new much larger facility in the Hamriyah Free Zone, in the UAE is underway.
Jebel Ali Oilfield Engineering The facility occupies an area of The Oilfield Engineering facility 178,900m that includes more than was completed in 2005 and is a 16,000m of covered work spaces purpose-built facility located within with internal overhead cranes the boundaries of the Jebel Ali suitable for carrying out fabrication facility.
The Oilfield Engineering and assembly activities under cover.
facility is accredited with all relevant API licences The covered areas also contain the latest and certifications.
welding and CNC cutting machinery.
This protected work environment is cooler, In addition to the covered fabrication safer and more productive than an areas it has extensive open fabrication outside location, and it allows the areas that are equipped with gantry and production of a higher quality product at mobile crawler cranes.
These open areas less cost.
The yard was designed to allow are used to assemble the final structures.
optimum production based on a clear There are also first class project, and logical flow of material through the production, engineering and client offices facility.
In addition to the covered for more than 300 people at the facility.
fabrication areas it has extensive open fabrication areas that are equipped with Lamprells Jebel Ali facility was purpose gantry and mobile crawler cranes.
built in 2002 and is one of the most modern in the region.
It is located in the Jebel Ali Free Zone and is 25km from the centre of Dubai.
Middle East Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 02 Business overview Hamriyah Sharjah Thailand This 51,000m portside facility Lamprells facility in Sharjah is Five year lease for a 46,950m has direct quayside access.
located in Port Khalid, a designated facility with 158m of exclusive This facility primarily undertakes free zone, and it has 360m of direct deep water quayside in Sattahip, jackup rig upgrade and quayside access at which the Thailand, in May 2008. refurbishment projects together majority of Lamprells jackup rig with new build projects.
upgrade and refurbishment The Company believes this expansion projects are executed.
provides an excellent opportunity to The core workforce at this facility as with transfer the skills and reputation Lamprell both the Sharjah and the Jabel Ali The facility has a total surface area of has built over many years, through its facilities workforce is supplemented from 36,000m that includes 28,000m of operations in the United Arab Emirates, the local labour market when required to open fabrication areas that are serviced to a region which offers a significant meet the demands of specific projects.
by mobile crawler cranes and tower fleet of jackup drilling rigs owned by cranes, as well as 3,500m of covered predominantly the same group of clients New facility fabrication areas.
Lamprells senior that operate in the Middle East.
When completed the new facility will have management team and the service 2 a developed area of 250,000m with a departments such as finance, human The yard has been granted necessary deepwater berthing quay wall 1,250m in resources and procurement are all operating licences and has commenced length and 9m deep.
This will enable located at the Sharjah facility.
Lamprell to work on up to 10 rigs and simultaneously construct up to three new build jackups.
Asia Lamprell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 03
