Performance highlights Highlights of the year Total revenue up 13% to 792.4 million 1 Adjusted operating profit was 36.2 million 1 Adjusted diluted earnings per share of 12.8 pence Full year dividend increased to 6.0 pence per share 1 Strong net cash generated from operations of 61.8 million Year-end net debt of 82.4 million 2008: 103.3m 1 Adjusted operating profit, adjusted diluted earnings per share and net cash generated from operations are calculated before amortisation of intangible assets and exceptional items.
McBride plc Overview of the year 02 Annual report and accounts 2009 Performance highlights 1 Group key performance indicators 2 Organic revenue growth Return on capital employed Waste efficiency 4% 17.1% 1.3% 2008: -2% 2008: 12.8% 2008: 1.2% 3 Customer service level Adjusted diluted earnings per share 97% 12.8p 2008: 96% 2008: 8.6p 1 For a more detailed description of the Group key performance indicators KPIs and how they are calculated, see below.
Year-on-year trends in the KPIs are discussed in the Chief Executives review, the Divisional reviews and the Group financial review on pages 8 to 20 and the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 26 to 28.
2 Waste efficiency includes all the Groups sites including St Helens.
3 Customer service level data includes Foetz from 2009 but excludes Dasty Italia in both years.
Key performance indicators McBride uses a number of key performance indicators KPIs to measure its performance and progress against its strategic objectives.
The most important of these KPIs focus on the five key areas of organic revenue growth, earnings per share, return on capital employed, customer service level and waste efficiency.
Organic Adjusted diluted Return on Customer KPI revenue growth earnings per share capital employed service level Waste efficiency Reported revenues Profit attributable Operating profit Volume of products Tonnes of waste Measure adjusted to take to shareholders before amortisation delivered in the relative to total account of acquisitions before amortisation of intangible assets correct volumes production tonnage.
and disposals and of intangible assets and exceptional items and within agreed currency exchange and exceptional as a percentage of timescales relative rate movements.
items divided by net assets excluding to the total volumes the average diluted net debt.
Cautionary statement No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report This Annual Report has been prepared for the shareholders of McBride plc, as a body, will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the available at the date of preparation of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes strategies adopted by the Group and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report no other purpose.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept should be construed as a profit forecast.
or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Directors report Pages 6 to 48, inclusive, of this Annual Report comprise a Report of the Directors that This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements that are subject to risk has been drawn up and presented in accordance with English company law and the factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group and restrictions provided by such law.
In particular, Directors would be liable to the operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable Company but not to any third party if the Directors report contains errors as a result of but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but differ materially from those currently anticipated.
would not otherwise be liable.
McBride plc Overview of the year 03 Annual report and accounts 2009 Performance highlights The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Contents
