Michael Page International plc Chief Executives Review My expectation at the start of 2004 Staff and of ce numbers United Kingdom The combined revenues of Michael was that whilst the prospects Page Marketing, Michael Page We started the year with 2,260 In the UK, turnover increased for the UK, Asia Paci c and The Sales and Michael Page Retail, fee generating and support staff by 20.9% to 234.8m 2003: Americas were improving, our were 24% higher than in 2003 and operating from 105 of ces in 16 194.3m and revenue by 21.4% Continental European businesses represented 23% of the UK total.
would face another dif cult year The national coverage of these the year we opened five of ces Operating pro ts were 23.6m as trading conditions remained businesses increased to eight and extended our existing 2003: 15.6m before weak.
These assumptions proved of ces in January 2004 with the disciplines into more locations.
to be correct for the best part of opening of an of ce in Bristol.
The 31 December 2004 we employed The revenues of the finance the year.
However, in Continental Marketing and Sales businesses 2,551 fee generating and support and accounting businesses of Europe, after the summer holiday produced strong growth from all staff operating from 110 of ces in Michael Page Finance, Michael period, we experienced improving industry sectors and continue 16 countries.
Page City and Accountancy activity levels which strengthened to develop a burgeoning temps Additions, which generated 62% as the year ended.
Retails growth rate was of UK revenue, were 17% higher lower re ecting the tougher market We continued our strategy of than in 2003.
Michael Page for retailers in general during 2004. investing cautiously and sensibly Finance, the largest of the three in the organic development of Michael Page Legal which businesses, opened an of ce our businesses, while maintaining performed well throughout the in Maidstone and recorded its our normal tight cost control.
downturn produced solid growth highest quarterly revenue of the This strategy means that we are in 2004.
Our small Technology year in the fourth quarter, which operationally geared and while business developed further during is encouraging given that this pro tability suffered during the the year producing a trading pro t quarter included the seasonally downturn, we gain the bene t compared to last years breakeven.
This is Michael Page Human Resources Finance business in part bene ted evidenced by our 18% increase achieved very strong growth from increased demand for in revenue gross pro t for the bene ting from its increased candidates, driven by the needs year, yielding a 75% increase in geographic coverage.
We believe of companies to prepare for the operating pro ts to 40.0m 2003: there is a substantial opportunity impact of International Accounting 22.9m before exceptional items.
in Michael Page Engineering and Standards and compliance with Supply Chain Management having Sarbanes-Oxley.
The revenue opened a fifth of ce London.
This of Michael Page City improved business has now been separated signi cantly, particularly in the into Michael Page Engineering first half of the year, whilst and Manufacturing, and Michael Accountancy Additions, which Page Procurement and Supply specialises in lower level finance Chain.
Michael Page Secretarial and accounting positions, grew which started at the end of 2003 revenue at the fastest rate partly progressed well and continues to driven by its network expansion focus on the City and West End from 27 to 30 locations with new of London.
of ces in Cambridge, Glasgow and Nottingham.
6 Chief Executives Review These businesses combined Continental Europe In France, our second largest Our newer and smaller businesses produced revenue growth in business after the UK and in Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium Our two largest businesses in 2004 of 40% and represent a representing nearly 55% of and Portugal each achieved 30% Continental Europe, France and signi cant opportunity for further the region, revenue was 6% plus revenue growth in 2004. the Netherlands, continued to strong growth as they are rolled lower than in 2003.
Trading experience challenging trading As market conditions in out progressively across the UK conditions remained very dif cult conditions during the first half of Continental Europe begin to network.
during 2004 with the business the year, recording like for like improve we are starting to only achieving modest year In order to capitalise on the revenue declines.
Elsewhere in reap the bene t of our strategy on year revenue growth in the opportunity in Scotland, we have Continental Europe, all our other to maintain and invest in our fourth quarter of 2004.
The created a separate management businesses increased revenues businesses during a downturn.
improved performance during structure to maximise revenue in the first half of the year.
During As part of this process, we have the second half of the year was from our existing of ces in the second half, market conditions rebranded Page Interim as Page largely driven by permanent Glasgow and Edinburgh, as well marginally improved, including Personnel in France, Italy, Spain recruitment resulting in revenue as to roll out other disciplines.
in France and the Netherlands, and the Netherlands.
If revenue from permanent placements which both contributed to our growth is maintained throughout for the year totalling a similar fourth quarter revenue growth in 2005, pro tability should improve level to 2003.
The temporary Continental Europe of 21.8%.
considerably as there remains and contracting businesses spare capacity within a number of Turnover for the year as a whole experienced a 15% decline in our businesses.
increased by 3.3% to 124.3m revenue year on year.
We believe 2003: 120.4m and revenue that the recent increase in our increased by 5.6% to 61.5m revenues is largely the result 2003: 58.2m.
As a result of of our ability to service the market the increased revenue and tight from our leading position which control over costs, the region we maintained during the produced an operating pro t downturn.
of 4.4m 2003: operating Our businesses in the loss before exceptional items Netherlands, Italy, Spain and of 0.3m.
Germany collectively represent nearly 40% of the region.
While the Netherlands did not achieve growth until the second half of 2004, our businesses in the other countries produced good growth throughout the year as market conditions improved.
In addition, we believe we have made market share gains as conditions improved due to a number of competitors downsizing and closing of ces during the downturn.
7 Chief Executives Review Asia Paci c 2004 was a very strong year in New IT system As we continue to grow the Tokyo and we substantially grew business it naturally becomes Our businesses in this region Our new front of ce recruitment revenue and pro ts.
We expanded broader-based in terms of produced a very strong set of system has been successfully the range of disciplines by starting disciplines, customers and results for the year.
Turnover was rolled out throughout the UK, Sales and Marketing, and Human geographies, although we cannot 22.2% higher at 62.8m 2003: Continental Europe and USA.
Our of ce is now at escape the fact that recruitment 51.4m, revenue was 26.0% The Asia Paci c region will start capacity and we intend doubling is tied to economic cycles.
Our higher at 31.5m 2003: 25.0m implementing the system in the the size of our of ce space early strategy of organically growing, and operating pro t increased first quarter of 2005. in 2005. maintaining and sensibly investing 52.5% to 11.6m 2003: 7.6m in our business, even during a Strategy before exceptional items.
The Americas downturn, means that our financial Our overall long term strategy In Australia revenue grew 16.7% performance will suffer during Turnover for the region was 79.2% remains absolutely unchanged.
driven largely by continued periods of economic slowdown.
higher at 11.8m 2003: 6.6m We intend to stay focused on our strong demand from the financial However, our track record since and revenue increased by 65.8% core competency of specialist services, business services, mining 1976 demonstrates the long to 7.6m 2003: 4.6m.
recruitment and to grow the and resources, and manufacturing term success of this strategy.
As During the year we opened new business organically by the sectors.
We opened an of ce conditions improved throughout of ces in Chicago and Boston expansion of existing businesses in Brisbane at the beginning of 2004 we again saw the bene ts and continued to add headcount in their local markets, the the year starting with financial of this approach, achieving a 75% in the existing of ces in the USA introduction of new disciplines into recruitment.
We also continued to increase in operating pro t on an and Brazil.
These investments, existing locations and by entering progress the roll out of the newer 18% increase in revenue.
while increasing the cost base, new geographic markets.
We have businesses, starting Engineering contributed to the revenue growth numerous opportunities to grow and Supply Chain in Sydney.
resulting in the region making an our business in all our regions.
Our businesses in Hong Kong operating pro t of 0.5m 2003: and Singapore both experienced operating loss before exceptional substantial revenue growth in items of 0.1m.
Terry Benson 2004 capitalising on our strong Chief Executive We are extremely pleased with our market position.
In August we 22 February 2005 progress in the USA and during entered into a strategic alliance early 2005 we will be investigating with Shanghai Tian Cai Network the opportunities for further of ce Co. Ltd. through which we can openings in the second half of provide recruitment services to the year.
In Brazil we enjoyed another very successful year growing headcount in both the So Paulo and Rio fide Janeiro of ces and starting Sales and Marketing recruitment.
