CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT We have made good progress.
MITIE has continued to make good progress and I am pleased that we have produced a good set of results this year.
The prospects for the future are promising.
Ian R Stewart CHIEF EXECUTIVE Rolls-Royce Working in partnership with Rolls-Royce, MITIE provides a full range of facilities services to its aerospace manufacturing and maintenance operations across the UK.
It is a bundled service with seven MITIE disciplines working together to provide a flexible, responsive service that includes infrastructure maintenance, catering, security, cleaning and business services.
Working together for business success 04 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 Contract Highlights We therefore announced in March 2004 that we would be Our approach has always been to focus on our customers, reshaping Support Services to ensure that it is able to identify their goals and work together with our colleagues to continue its rapid progress as markets change.
The trend deliver quality services.
I am delighted that we are seeing towards customers wanting combinations of our services, or some excellent examples of our success in doing that.
bundled services, is increasing and this has led us to appoint Colin Hale as Head of Support Services to ensure that we are Our contract with Rolls-Royce goes from strength to strength.
positioned to meet this demand.
We have continued to expand the range of services that we are providing to them.
This contract is an example of our We have recognised that, in order to keep pace with the bundled service offering.
In January 2004, we started work market, we must constantly review the way in which we sell on another bundled services contract with Nissan Motor MITIE at the highest corporate level.
In addition, we must Manufacturing United Kingdom Nissan at their make strategic acquisitions as well as continuing with our Sunderland plant.
This is a further case of MITIE working start-up model.
In order to give these objectives a higher together to support the customers sole focus, which in this profile, Roger Goodman was recently appointed Group case is on the production of cars.
Acquisitions and New Companies We have also secured a further extension to our contract The progress of Support Services was boosted by three with Land Securities Trillium.
The contract covers the strategic acquisitions during the year.
Department for Work and Pensions and runs until 2018.
I look forward to seeing this partnership develop further.
On 2 July 2003 we acquired Trident Safeguards Ltd Trident and on 3 July 2003 Eagle Pest Control Services The MCI contract is another good example of MITIE UK Ltd Eagle.
On 4 November 2003 we acquired providing many of our services to one customer.
Since our Executive Holdings Ltd Executive.
acquisition of Executive Holdings Ltd we now provide engineering maintenance, security, grounds maintenance The acquisitions of Trident and Executive have enabled us and business services to their Reading facility.
to increase significantly our presence in the manned guarding market, giving us wider geographical cover.
We have also recently started a facilities contract for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister ODPM in Executive also operates in several niche cleaning markets and Whitehall.
The estate covers 55,837 square metres and we these operations have been incorporated into our existing will be providing cleaning, catering, security, facilities cleaning business.
This has enabled us to enter new markets.
The mission statement Eagle is a national pest control business and will provide of the ODPM is Creating Sustainable Communities.
This is significant opportunities for growth in this fragmented market.
a goal with which MITIE readily identifies, as our aim is to have a positive impact on the communities in which we all I am particularly pleased with the way in which the staff in live and work.
these acquired companies are embracing the MITIE culture.
Progress The MITIE model continues to flourish.
We started five new Our markets are always changing.
Whether we are operating companies during the year under review and three more in Support or Building Services, our customers are looking to since the year-end.
Start-ups include two niche cleaning reduce costs and improve efficiency.
Streamlined supply businesses, which will concentrate on the retail and chains, partnerships, framework agreements and one-stop transportation sectors, together with an industrial cleaning shops are the order of the day.
To ensure MITIEs share of company and a landscape business.
In addition, this market, a more flexible and integrated approach to our Engineering has expanded its national coverage with three customers was needed.
new start-ups and we have also established a new catering company in London.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Strategy Second Generation Equity in Cleaning As I stated last year, we continue to review our strategy to MITIE Cleaning started in 1987 as one company.
After the ensure that the solutions we offer meet the needs of existing Company earned out, Cleaning was structured regionally.
This year has seen more emphasis Apart from MITIE Cleaning Midlands Ltd, there have been placed on the development of our niche businesses and our no additional Cleaning companies started on the MITIE ability to work together across disciplines.
Since its formation, Cleaning has grown rapidly and we have recruited management at all levels who have never Niche businesses: We are finding that many of our had any equity participation.
In order to give this new customers require a service that is specifically tailored to the management the opportunity to share in MITIE equity the sector in which they operate and where we need to Board have agreed, in principle, and subject to all the demonstrate an understanding of their culture.
We are necessary professional advice, to launch a Second seeing good levels of success in the niche businesses that we Generation Equity Plan.
This makes available additional have started, in areas such as retail, transport and equity in MITIE Cleaning, allowing minority shareholders technology, where previously we have not operated.
to share in the additional value they create.
Working together bundled services : Forecasts indicate Revenue visibility that customers will be buying more than 25% of their We see increased visibility of our future earnings.
We feel that services in a bundle by 2006, compared with 10% today.
this is an appropriate mix of short-term and long-term work.
In the Contract Highlights section I have given some examples of where we are PERCENTAGE OF REVENUE SECURED working well across our disciplines.
This is now gathering momentum and is presenting us with a number of 2005 67 33 interesting opportunities.
2006 42 58 Single service: There are still opportunities to develop all of at 31March 2004 our existing businesses in their traditional markets on a single service basis.
2004 64 36 Overseas: Increasingly, our customers are asking for us to be 2005 33 67 involved in overseas contracts.
We have established an at 31March 2003 arrangement with providers across Europe to provide similar Secured services.
Unsecured Start-up businesses: Start-up businesses have been the foundation of our growth model and we will continue to start businesses with quality management teams that are complementary to our existing operations.
All these services will be underpinned by the MITIE philosophy of focusing on the customer and providing a quality service.
The changes we have made in the Support Services division will provide a greater degree of operational clarity and customer responsiveness.
To assist in this process we are continuing to locate our companies in the same buildings wherever possible.
We now have six regional centres.
Arcadia Group MITIE has performed an extensive makeover of Arcadias Oxford Circus headquarters.
Over a ten-month period we transformed the PR showroom that is used to entertain the media, to stage fashion shows and to display the latest styles.
We have consolidated reception areas and improved the buildings open plan offices.
The projects have created a crisp and modern head office environment with clean edges, light colourings and comfort cooling.
Working together to achieve your goals 06 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2004
