com Welcome to this, the third Annual Report for your Company, mmO.
In the past year we have created a genuine momentum in 2 all the businesses that we believe can be carried forward In the year ended 31 March 2004, mmO passed an important We are pleased to say that O businesses have successfully delivered 2 2 milestone, making its first ever pre-tax profit of 95 million compared in the past year against the commitments we made.
Across all our with a loss of 10,203 million in the previous year.
The stock market territories we have shown impressive growth in subscribers, reecting recognised our achievement as our shares were the second best the success of our segmented and focused approach to the needs of performer in the FTSE 100 index during 2003.
This achievement has been coupled everywhere with higher continuing operations grew by 22 per cent to 5.65 billion, within profitability, driven by improvements in the quality of our customer which service revenues showed a 23 per cent increase to 5.03 billion base and greater operational efficiency.
At the same time, we have and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and successfully developed new business opportunities.
exceptional items EBITDA grew by 59 per cent to 1.37 billion.
Excluding O Netherlands, operating profit before exceptional items We would like to illustrate this by highlighting just some of the 2 and goodwill amortisation was 435 million compared with a loss of achievements made by each of the operating businesses: 18 million in the previous year but an exceptional operating charge of 75 million contributed to an operating profit of 159 million.
At O UK, our customer base grew by 10 per cent and profitability, as 2 A combination of stronger EBITDA, controlled capital expenditure measured by our EBITDA margin, improved to over 30 per cent.
Since and improved working capital management reduced net debt by demerger, EBITDA at O UK has risen 55 per cent.
By the end of the 2 183 million to 366 million, below the level at the time of demerger.
year we had shown ten quarters of continuous improvements in the mix of customers and, over the period, a significant reduction in In February 2004 a proposal was received from KPN, the Dutch the rate of churn.
This clearly reects the progress we have made in telecommunications group.
The Board carefully considered the proposal implementing our strategy.
Our efforts to improve network quality, but rejected it as not being in the best interests of mmO shareholders.
a vital ingredient in customer satisfaction, were recognised by Oftel, 2 which named O UK as having the best ever published national call 2 Operational review success rates.
New opportunities for growth are being realised through The O brand goes from strength to strength in all our market Tesco Mobile, our joint venture with one of the UKs most powerful 2 territories, supported by interactive sponsorships including that of the retail channels, which is addressing the family market, complementing England rugby team in its successful challenge for the 2003 Rugby O UKs focus on high-value customers.
Tesco Mobile is already 2 World Cup.
All the businesses have shown improved performance, available in more than 500 UK outlets and the initial aim is to attract exploiting new opportunities represented by the integration of voice two million subscribers.
By the beginning of May 2004, 250,000 and data services and sharpening their focus on the needs of customers had signed up to Tesco Mobile well ahead of initial targets.
In O Germany, we have turned a loss-maker into a business with 2 Although we have come a long way in the two years since our convincing momentum, a rising market share, EBITDA margin in the demerger, we are not complacent.
In a highly competitive environment, mid-teens and improving cash ow.
O Germany is now the fastest 2 we recognise that we have a great deal more to do to ensure growing mobile phone operator in Germany and has the highest ARPU continued progress.
Our paramount aim is to generate sustainable and the best mix of customers of any German operator.
Our market profitable growth a challenging combination in any business.
We are share by number of subscribers is 9 per cent but by subscriber revenues not chasing subscribers at any cost.
A year ago we explained that our it is 10 per cent, reecting success in attracting a high-value customer businesses would focus on improving the experience of high-value base.
We have achieved annual growth in our customer base of nearly customers for O s voice and data products and services.
Success would 25 per cent in the last two years and are closing the gap on our 2 mean greater customer loyalty and lower rates of churn.
Also, it would nearest competitor.
mean a better mix of customers, with a greater emphasis on post-pay users, and higher average revenues per user ARPU.
At the same time, we committed ourselves to an improved operational performance, to tight financial discipline and to seek out and exploit new opportunities to develop our businesses.
com 3 In the case of O Ireland, we have taken a good business and made to download music to their mobile phones wherever they are: and we 2 it an even better one.
We were delighted that this was reected in were the first with video streaming, making available exclusive O Ireland being named Telecommunications Company of the Year at highlights from the Rugby World Cup and, more recently, London 2 ICT Expo.
Growth in service revenues has continued at a strong pace Fashion Week via our O Active portal.
We now earn revenues of more 2 and the EBITDA margin showed a further rise to nearly 40 per cent.
than 1 billion per year from non-voice services.
The strong pace of growth is not reliant only on SMS text messaging, which is still O Airwave, with its 2.9 billion, 19-year contract to supply secure expanding and where we remain market leaders in the UK with a share 2 communications for the UK police forces and emergency services, has of 35 per cent.
Other applications, including picture messaging, games, become our fourth substantial business with positive EBITDA ahead of e-mail, internet surng and the use of our Xda II combined phone and schedule this year.
From a standing start we are now well over halfway personal digital assistant, will be an engine of continued future growth.
through the national roll-out of the Airwave network to 35 police forces with over 50,000 ofcers using the system.
Completion of the network is expected in March 2005, ushering in a rapid transformation of O Airwaves financial performance.
We are also in the advanced 2 stages of bidding for the nationwide Fire and Ambulance Service contracts, and actively marketing to other Public Safety Users.
Manx Telecom, which has been a pioneer in 3G technology, has been awarded a 15-year extension to its operating licence by the Manx Government and is building a GPRS network to complement its main network.
Customers embrace multimedia services We continue to view non-voice services as a potentially significant source of future growth.
Last year there was a key breakthrough.
Many of our customers, using our higher speed 2.5G service GPRS, began to use mobile phones not only to make voice calls and send text messages, but to download games and music, watch video streams, surf the internet and send e-mails.
We saw the take-up of these applications and services grow at an encouraging rate during the year the number of customers using GPRS more than tripled.
Demand has been driven by the arrival of colour screen handsets at reasonable prices and the availability of a widening range of multimedia applications.
In a young but competitive market, our services have been distinctive.
We were first to market with O Music, allowing customers 2 David Varney, Chairman left Peter Erskine, Chief Executive officer right 4 mmo2.
com 3G to become a reality this year has programmes in the UK, Germany, Ireland and the Isle of Man.
As We regard the development of a high-speed 3G network as an exciting our CR report will show, we have made good progress in our prospect, bringing substantial benets, over time, to our customers.
It marketplaces, communities, workplaces and supply chains.
will allow us to offer a range of enhanced services that users will value.
We have already invested to meet our regulatory requirement to offer In 2003 04, we chose the International Youth Foundation as our 25 per cent network coverage in Germany and 35 per cent in Ireland, Charity of the Year.
mmO and IYF have jointly developed a programme 2 while we continue to take a measured approach to the roll-out this of projects to empower young people by fostering educational year of our 3G network in the UK.
We are concentrating on areas achievement, technological awareness, life skills and citizenship.
where there is already evidence of high usage of mobile data services.
In simple terms, when we introduce our 3G service, we want it to In the belief that our mobile services can tackle real social needs, provide a good customer experience.
Industry issues concerning the we have continued with our trial to monitor the condition of asthma price, size and weight of 3G handsets, seamless roaming from 2 or sufferers using our Xda device.
The trial is now being extended to cystic 2.5G to 3G networks, and international roaming, together with brosis.
In conjunction with Millys Fund, Teach UR Mum 2 Txt is reliability, are still to be resolved.
The speed of take-up of 3G will another initiative we have taken to use mobile technology to meet depend on all these factors.
In view of this, we do not see a compelling social needs.
We were delighted that Teach UR Mum 2 Txt won mass market for 3G until the 2005 06 financial year.
Best Use of Mobile for Accessibility in the GSM Association Annual Awards for 2004.
External recognition of our efforts has also been Mobile alliance reected in our inclusion in both the FTSE4Good index and the Dow In October 2003, O Germany, O UK and O Ireland forged an alliance Jones Sustainability Indexes and a high position in the Corporate 2 2 2 with other independent European mobile phone operators in order to Responsibility Index introduced by Business in the Community.
exploit significant opportunities in the joint marketing and sourcing of our products and services under the Starmap Mobile Alliance brand.
Public health and safety The health and safety of customers, employees and the public is of the The aim of the alliance is to provide a home-away-from-home highest importance to us.
In this respect we welcomed the report of experience by introducing seamless roaming, at rate tariffs and MMS the Advisory Group on Non-Ionising Radiation.
The report confirmed connectivity across members networks.
It will enable us to be quick to the findings of the Stewart Report in 2000, concluding that the market across borders with innovative new products and services, overwhelming balance of scientific evidence suggests mobile phone including our Xda II, and to secure cost savings through joint sourcing technologies do not cause adverse effects on public health.
Along with of devices and SIMs together with joint bids on major corporate our colleagues in the mobile phone industry, we will continue to contracts.
address public concerns and, in particular, are actively supporting the 7.4 million three-year Mobile Telecommunications Health Research Community Programme.
In July 2003, we published our first Corporate Responsibility CR report.
In July 2004, we will be publishing a second report which will Enhanced features of mobile technology have given rise to a widening be available to shareholders, or can be viewed on our website, where range of innovative services that can be accessed over the internet our progress and achievements will be laid out in detail.
Our approach some of which may deal in content of an adult nature.
In January to CR is embedded in our business.
We are committed to acting 2004, we were party to the publication of a Code of Practice agreed by responsibly in all our activities and to win the trust of customers, all UK mobile operators for self-regulation of new forms of content.
We believe in being an active The Code calls for independent classication of content, age participant in the communities in which we operate, for example verication and other measures including the monitoring of chat through our Can Do in the Community investment initiative, which rooms, ltering of content and reporting of illegal content where mmo2.
O is committed to acting responsibly and giving our customers and better, by far, than unnecessary regulation.
We believe 2 customers choice, as well as providing the ability to protect the that competition, not regulation, should be the driver in our market, vulnerable.
To this end, O has undertaken a wide-ranging campaign to and we welcome the challenge to deliver value and exploit the many 2 educate and raise awareness among parents, teachers and guardians of opportunities we see to create innovative new sources of growth.
In some of the risks faced by children using mobile phones.
2004 05, thanks to our leaner central overheads, we will become a more agile business, with a more local touch.
We have the ability to Board and organisation continue to increase revenues and profits more rapidly than our major In 2003 04, we recognised an exceptional operating charge of competitors.
Building on the turnaround achieved since demerger, our 75 million to cover the costs of a restructuring of our central German business is now experiencing high levels of growth and is operations and the resultant rationalisation of our property portfolio.
rapidly becoming a credible force in Europes largest market.
The Two years ago we inherited weak operating companies and sought to momentum we have developed will be sustained by rising market share offset this, initially, by strengthening our central operations, locating, in Germany, an improving mix of customers in the UK, the growth of for example, Products O and O Online centrally to develop products valued new mobile data services, the transformation of the financial 2 2 and services.
Subsequently, we have signicantly improved our performance of O Airwave and positive benets from our Starmap 2 operating businesses and strengthened the teams who run them.
As a Mobile Alliance and the Tesco Mobile joint venture.
result, we have pushed many of the central functions back out to our operating businesses, all of which are now highly customer-focused.
Having reported positive full-year earnings and cash ow for the first We expect the restructuring and property rationalisation to generate time, and with the businesses demonstrating continued positive annual cost savings of 40-45 million.
momentum, we will now review our distribution policy, aiming to announce this with our Interim Results in November 2004.
As a consequence of the reduction in central functions, which included devolving staff to our operating businesses, Kent Thexton, who oversaw the launch of the O brand and led the Products O and 2 2 O Online businesses, stepped down as an executive Director in 2 February 2004 and, on leaving the Group at the end of March 2004, Peter Erskine returned to his native Canada.
Chief Executive officer In early May 2004, the Company announced that David Arculus would succeed David Varney as Chairman at the conclusion of this years Annual General Meeting.
Since joining mmO as a non-executive 2 Director on 1 April 2003, David Arculus has made a considerable contribution to the Board and brings extensive experience to the David Varney Chairman position of Chairman.
Looking ahead After a better than expected 2003 04, we anticipate that the coming year, which will see the arrival of high-speed 3G services, will be even more exciting and challenging.
Competition for customers will be tough, both from new entrants and from established operators seeking to differentiate their services.
There are now eight players in the UK market, making it the most competitive in Europe.
