Chief Executive Officers review: underlying operating profit The 2004 results reflect the economies, and we are before goodwill many achievements over the utilising Joint Ventures as a amortisation and operating past two years.
We have lower cost, lower risk route exceptionals year-on-year.
reduced our divisions from for accelerating growth.
nine to four and through On a constant currency After my second year as disposals or closures we basis, all of our divisions CEO of Morgan, I am have decreased the number experienced positive top line pleased with the efforts of manufacturing sites by a growth.
This, coupled with of our people.
As a consequence of a restructuring programme worked hard on your behalf our manufacturing location that is on track to achieve and I should like to thank strategy, there has been cost savings and profit them.
We are delivering on a substantial increase of improvements of 50 million the commitments that we our headcount in lower cost per year from early 2007, made to our shareholders regions.
At the beginning of finds Morgan to be in a a year ago: to achieve 2002 there were just under Delivering the much stronger position than cost savings and profit a quarter of our employees transformation of Morgan it was two years ago.
Our improvement of up to in such regions: at the time financial position has been 50 million by early 2007.
2004 results show good of writing there are now bolstered by the decrease of We have created a strong progress despite negative approximately 40%.
our net borrowings by over core of businesses from external factors The shift in manufacturing 100 million year-on-year which I am confident that we geographies, coupled Restructuring programme to 147.5 million 2003: can grow profitably.
Our with site and overhead is on track to achieve 249.3 million.
Also, Morgan 2004 results show that we rationalisation, will enable targeted savings generated positive free have the capability to grow us to make significant cash flow for the year of our revenue stream as well Morgan is better positioned reductions in total 23.0 million 2003: outflow as deliver on our cost within its markets employment costs in 8.8 million.
We are well placed for The recovery of our markets Warren Knowlton future profitable growth However, whilst cost continues to be mixed but Chief Executive Officer reductions are fundamental we are better positioned to the success of Morgan, Our full year results for 2004 within them, due to our shareholder value creation show strong progress for marketing focus and our cannot come from Morgan, despite external portfolio of products.
rationalisation activities factors such as adverse We have sold businesses, alone.
The long-term currency effects and or exited product lines, that commercial health of significant increases in were operating in structurally Morgan is also predicated energy and raw materials unattractive markets.
on successfully delivering which negatively impacted We have transferred profitable growth.
To achieve profits by 15 million.
manufacturing towards such growth, we are being However, cost rationalisation lower cost locations such as proactive in our portfolio and revenue growth China, India, Malaysia and management by focusing initiatives more than offset Eastern Europe.
We have on higher value segments, these factors and we entered several new product we are expanding our achieved a very pleasing markets by utilising our geographic presence in 26% improvement on applications engineering targeted regions and know-how and sophisticated materials science.
04 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Group structure: Division Markets Contribution to Group turnover Carbon The division designs, manufactures and supplies carbon Consumer products 196.1m components and systems for industrial rail and traction Transport applications on a global scale.
We provide seal faces Aerospace and bearings for a wide range of applications, and also Defence produce precision high purity speciality graphite products Chemical for use in high temperature and corrosive environments.
Semiconductor Technical Ceramics The division manufactures products from a comprehensive Medical 135.7m range of ceramic, glass, precious metal, piezoelectric Aerospace and dielectric materials for use in a wide range of end Electronics market products such as pacemakers, parking sensors Power generation and submarine detection devices.
Insulating Ceramics The division produces crucibles, insulating fire bricks, Automotive transportation 249.8m insulating fibres and furnaces to be used in applications Metal processing that require heat and energy savings management.
Iron and steel Utilities Magnetics The division develops, manufactures and markets specialTelecoms 181.2m purpose magnetic materials and the products derived Medical from them.
Our materials, parts, components and systems Automotive are used in virtually every field of electronics and electrical Security engineering.
05 The Morgan Crucible Company plc
