NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 12 Alan White Facing the challenges We have an excellent customer database and a number of focused selling propositions but we also need to expand our channels to market, further develop our product ranges and improve our marketing to customers.
During the year we have taken a number of initiatives to drive these changes.
Chief Executives review NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 13 N Brown Group plc 11 Report and Accounts 2004 We are delighted with sales increases in the second half of almost 5% for ladieswear, 18% for footwear and 8% for menswear.
We are pleased to have further increased our market Sales from our younger titles rose by 3% to 101m.
Whilst the Far East will remain our core sourcing region share of the home shopping sector.
However, there The best performance came from Simply Be, which we are increasing the proportion of merchandise are a number of challenges we have to overcome is targeted at the confident woman in the 35-45 age purchased from Eastern Europe and Turkey where to re-establish a firm growth path for the business.
bracket with larger sizes in fashionable styles, where we can buy reasonably small quantities on short lead In particular, over the past year the catalogue home sales increased by 35% to 24m.
times, affording us more opportunity to introduce shopping business has continued to be under ranges in season as appropriate.
pressure due to the structural changes taking place The mid-life titles, targeted at the 45 plus market, in customers shopping habits, especially from the still represent 64% of total home shopping sales Home and leisure sales were up by 3% for the year, but increasing penetration of the supermarkets and and increased revenues by 1% to 290m.
Within growth slowed in the second half as we tightened the value retailers and the wider availability of credit.
this category the core J D Williams titles were flat overall credit limit policy and eliminated interest free Our progress in meeting these challenges was not year on year but Premier Man and our subsidiary credit options for higher priced furniture and electrical helped in the autumn by the postal strike which company in Ireland had sales increases of over 10% items in the Home Essentials brochure, which proved disrupted mailings in our peak trading period.
on the back of strong recruitment performances.
to have an unacceptably high rate of bad debt.
We will continue to sell these items but on interest-bearing We have an excellent customer database and a House of Stirling, our door-to-door selling operation, terms: we still see opportunities to expand the ranges number of focused selling propositions but we continued its geographical expansion into the Midlands, of product in the home and leisure segment and will be also need to expand our channels to market, resulting in a 30% increase in sales to 33m.
We are trialling ranges of occasional furniture and ornaments further develop our product ranges and improve investing in collections support for the field force as well as craft and hobby products in our Autumn our marketing to customers.
During the year we have to increase the proportion of debt collected each week 2004 catalogues.
taken a number of initiatives to drive these changes.
thereby reducing the level of arrears, which has risen during the year.
CHANNELS TO MARKET HOME SHOPPING The mix of demand played a significant role in Turnover from our core home shopping activities was up PRODUCTS influencing the rate of gross margin achieved for the by 3.0% for the year at 452.9m.
Operating profit before Our policy during the year has been to focus on the year as a whole.
Sales from full margin activities, such goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional items development of those ranges where we believe we as catalogues and major leaflets, were down by 2% reduced to 51.0m, although this still represents a have a strong selling proposition.
We are delighted whereas sales from markdown and promotional offers margin of 11.3%.
The principal reason for this fall is with increases in the second half of almost 5% for rose by 12%, reflecting the importance of incentives and a lower rate of gross profit resulting from a reduced ladieswear, 18% for footwear and 8% for menswear, discounts for todays value conscious customers.
This proportion of sales at full margin and a higher rate of bad the latter after almost two years of declining sales.
is also being seen in catalogue sales where multi-item debt.
We have already taken steps, which are outlined in offers are performing strongly.
more detail later, which will reverse these trends.
These sales increases reflect the changes made to the composition of the catalogues in both Autumn Winter We are also moving to increase the frequency of CUSTOMERS 2003 and Spring Summer 2004, where we have added catalogue distribution, whilst eliminating a number The numbers of new customers recruited during the a number of new pages but more importantly have of smaller leaflets, which we believe will give a better year improved by 5% due to a more promotional style expanded the choice of styles and price architecture.
return on our marketing investment.
In addition, we are of merchandise advertisements in newspapers and changing our marketing promotions to drive customers magazines and a significant increase in activity from Part of the increase in styles has come from in-season back to their catalogues with gifts and discounts, rather brochures inserted within these publications.
Sales per purchasing which allows new lines to be interspersed than increasing the number of leaflets.
established customer rose by a healthy 4% but the with existing products in our monthly leaflet programme.
overall number of these customers fell by 2%.
The This allows us to compete more effectively with the Home shopping sales are increasingly being generated expansion of the number of catalogue pages and high street retailers, whose ranges change frequently, by positive action rather than passive order taking.
improvements to their presentation and promotion, and we are now seeing evidence that the new lines During the year we increased the level of incremental as well as making our clothing and footwear ranges are outperforming those which were already in the sales generated by order building over the telephone more appealing, are all designed to reverse the main catalogues.
Similarly, the outbound telemarketing team declining customer base trend.
increased sales by 5%, primarily from customers who had not placed an order up to that point.
NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 14 N Brown Group plc 12 Report and Accounts 2004 Sales via websites for our catalogue brands increased by 87% to 28m during the year.
E-commerce is playing an ever-increasing role in the channel, whilst we will be responsible for the product Total overhead costs for the group rose by only 3.2% business.
Sales via the websites for our catalogue offer and customer service from point of order to but with continuing deflation in our core product ranges brands increased by 87% to 28m during the year.
Inevitably there will be modest start up losses it is essential we exert stringent cost control.
We will be The first 1m demand week was achieved at the end as we establish the infrastructure for the channel but we focusing on improvements to the supply chain and of November and the upward momentum is being expect to be in profit by the end of the second year.
seeking to reduce costs in our customer contact maintained.
The greatest penetration of internet centres in the coming year.
sales is on our youngest brand, Simply Be, where FINANCIAL INCOME over 30% of sales are on-line.
The availability of flexible credit for our customers TELEVIEW has been one of the mainstays of our home shopping Teleview has been building a rental fleet since 1996 The main stimulus to on-line ordering is still printed proposition.
During 2003 we recognised that, due to comprising televisions, video recorders and other catalogues but we are now seeking to exploit the the greater availability of credit in the near and subconsumer electronic goods with a net book value opportunities which e-commerce provides.
We hold prime markets from the major credit card companies, of 16m.
Whilst it is a low-cost operator with one over 500,000 e-mail addresses which allows us to we were seeing the proportion of our sales on credit centralised call centre and a small number of regional contact these customers at very low costs with special starting to diminish slightly.
depots, we have concluded that, due to the continuing offers, and increasingly we see the opportunity to test trend for customers to buy rather than rent as selling new products and ideas cost-effectively on-line before We are increasing our marketing efforts to promote the prices continue to fall in real terms each year, we will be investing in printed material.
Consequently our strategy availability and benefits of our credit proposition but unable to deliver an acceptable rate of return on capital.
is to collect more of our customers e-mail details as a recognise that the long-term trend favours credit cards, Consequently, we are looking to dispose of the powerful direct marketing tool.
an area where we have ambitions of our own.
business, and in the current year we have incurred an impairment charge of 9.0m to reflect the likely Our websites to date have largely been a service for We continually monitor the profitability of each part realisable value of our investment.
During the year we have of our business, whether it be customers, products been adding website addresses to our recruitment or offers utilising the vast array of data in our computer FULFILMENT advertisements and we will increase the level of on-line files.
We identified a rising arrears position in the autumn Zendor, which provides home shopping solutions for recruitment, concentrating on our focused selling and have taken decisive action to tackle the situation.
multi-channel retailers, has increased its operating profit propositions of size and fittings in clothing and footwear.
Firstly, we have selectively reduced customers credit before goodwill amortisation and operating exceptional limits where we perceived we were running an above items to 0.8m, from 0.3m last year, although turnover Catalogue shopping has been suffering recently from average risk.
Secondly, we recognised that although has fallen slightly to 8.9m as a result of realigning the its relative lack of flexibility in range and pricing the long-term interest free offer on the higher value client portfolio to focus on higher margin contracts.
compared with the fast fashion prevalent on the high home and electrical products in our Home Essentials The level of third party interactive revenue no longer street.
E-commerce is another way in which we can brochure was stimulating strong levels of demand, supports the remaining unamortised goodwill of 7.6m, quickly react to customers needs 24 hours a day, 7 it was also generating arrears levels above our which has been written off as an exceptional charge days a week.
In addition, customers who order on-line expectations.
Consequently we have significantly this year, together with 0.9m of redundant assets.
have higher average order values, greater loyalty and changed the product and credit offer from Spring 2004. lower costs to service.
There continues to be a high level of interest in SERVICE AND COSTS Zendors fulfilment services as more retailers move Another channel which has similar dynamic The quality of service expected by our customers on-line.
We continue to discuss opportunities to partner characteristics is television shopping which has now rises each year.
I am delighted that during the year we with logistics and software companies to allow Zendor grown into a 500m marketplace, and is forecast to have delivered improved standards of performance in to take advantage of the buoyant market.
grow quickly in the next few years.
To participate in this order and enquiry handling and in the speed of delivery sector we have entered into a 50:50 joint venture with of parcels to customers.
This is reflected in our internal FINANCIAL SERVICES Northern & Shell Network Limited which own the customer satisfaction surveys which show a pleasing First Financial sells financial products, such as personal Express group of newspapers to set up the Express upward trend.
The number of couriers we employ has loans, warranties and insurances, mainly to our existing Shopping Channel.
We believe there is an excellent risen to 1,200, handling 65% of total parcel deliveries.
Turnover for the year increased by 8.3% match of our respective skill sets.
Northern & Shell have This has mitigated the impact of the 20% rate increases to 8.7m but there was a significant slowdown in the the studio facilities and programme-making expertise, imposed by third party carriers, which caused second half.
This was planned due to our more cautious plus the media vehicles to drive customers to our distribution costs to rise by 5.2%.
approach in loan underwriting as we felt many NBrown AR04 F-END AW 7 6 04 10:31 am Page 15 N Brown Group plc 13 Report and Accounts 2004 A growing proportion of our orders will now be generated through e-commerce, telemarketing and our newly formed television shopping channel.
customers were already near the limit of their ability Printed catalogues and leaflets will remain at the core of to repay.
This was manifested by an increase in arrears our home shopping business, albeit in varied formats both from home shopping debtors and the personal and increased frequency, but a growing proportion of loans portfolio.
In addition, we saw a significant our orders will now be generated through e-commerce, reduction in the sale of warranties as the credit changes telemarketing and our newly-formed television in the core business reduced sales of warrantable shopping channel, where we can respond to events products by 10%.
This multi-channel approach, allied with our established database segmentation skills, will Despite this slowdown we still see financial services as a enable us to compete more effectively in the future.
The market is growing most strongly in credit cards and secured lending and we Finally I would like to congratulate our Chairman, Sir continue to pursue opportunities in these areas to David Alliance CBE, on his appointment as a life peer, augment our existing range of products.
a fitting tribute for a long and successful business career which I am sure will prove invaluable experience in the MANAGEMENT TEAM House of Lords.
We have seen a number of positive changes to the home shopping board this year.
Dean Moore has joined as Group Finance Director, John Hinchcliffe as Marketing Director and Keith Risk as Logistics Director.
They all have extensive knowledge of the retail sector and have settled in very quickly, and I believe they will enable us to continue outperforming our competitors.
ALAN WHITE HEAD OFFICE MOVE During the year we have migrated the business, excluding our call centre and warehouse activities, from its long-established base at Dale Street to a modern freehold office environment at nearby Griffin House at a net cost of 18m.
This major project, which included moving our computer centre, has been achieved without disruption to the business and creates an excellent platform for future development.
SUMMARY The year under review has been one of transition for the group as we revise our business model to reflect the changing buying habits of our customers.
We have eliminated some low profitability activities and are re-focusing on those product ranges where our comprehensive size and fittings offer, targeted primarily at the middle-aged woman, give us a competitive advantage.
We also see opportunities to service more affluent customers with targeted offers as home delivery becomes more widely accepted following the rise of on-line shopping.
