03 PHS Group plc Chief Executives review Business PHS provides services in five main areas, washroom Implementation of upgraded software, along with modernisation services, dust mat services, live and replica plants, point of use water of the supporting infrastructure, is expected to commence dispensers and crate rental.
We continue to be a customer-focused, towards the end of this new financial year.
Once implemented, sales-driven organisation with separate sales and service operations PHS will experience real benefits through improved customer for each area of the business, all supported by central marketing, IT, service, increased efficiency of administrative processes and better finance, training and administration functions.
Focus Our aim is to be first to identify the needs of our customers Customer retention Project Fast Response continues to play and produce innovative ways of meeting those needs ahead of a key part in our improvement of customer retention rates.
The implementation of ideas from our own employees of how to The Group is committed to its strategy of achieving growth in improve every aspect of customer contact, specifically in contract the customer contract pool by maintaining a highly incentivised processing, product installation, quality of service, customer information sales team, developing service and product offerings, enhancing on performance, invoicing, cash collection and customer problem customer service and reducing customer churn.
Supporting this solving, continues to prove highly successful.
growth, the Groups selective acquisition strategy is focused on Another customer retention initiative, Project 24 24, allows low-technology growing markets, with high margin contractual our washroom customers to have their call answered by a PHS income from large volumes of customers and strong cash employee 24 hours a day, seven days a week and have any issues generation.
Margin enhancement is also a priority for the dealt with within 24 real-time hours.
Group which is achieved through leveraging the existing national Project Q Call processed 1,047 calls during its first full year infrastructure, continually improving operational effectiveness of operation.
This initiative gives service staff a customer care hot and rolling out best practices across the Group.
line to call for immediate action to deal with any problems they We believe our strong focus on putting our customers first and identify on customers sites before they become an issue for the continually driving improvements to the services we provide gives us customers themselves.
a significant competitive advantage in our markets.
The numerous These, along with other initiatives, have helped improve overall initiatives in place, centring either on identifying new business contractual customer retention rates.
development opportunities to help fuel organic growth or on keeping Acquisitions At the time of our flotation in June 2001, we set out our existing customers longer, help us to gain this advantage.
a plan to invest 100m in acquisitions over the following three years.
Business development Organic growth in turnover of over 4% has At the end of March 2004, our investment in earnings-enhancing been achieved, with the most significant contributions being in air acquisitions totalled 129.3m.
Activity remains focused on opportunities fresheners, speciality mats, dental waste disposal and the WL3000 that can be bolted-on to our existing business, complemented by point of use water dispenser.
new businesses in low-technology, high margin, growing markets We continue to develop products and services with additional where there is fragmented competition and a large volume of customers requiring rental, service and maintenance on long-term contracts, features and benefits that enable us to gain higher average rentals.
Specifically, this year saw the launch of Ambiscent, a product aimed spending relatively low sums of money.
These businesses will typically require low capital investment and be strongly cash generative.
at fragrancing larger spaces: a new Ultrazone odour neutralising product: a range of air filtration products: a new anti-bacterial mat: The Group made 18 acquisitions in the year at a total investment cost of 61.6m.
The majority of these investments were bolted-on and the WL2000 water dispenser.
Project Matrix, the marketing-led initiative aimed at leveraging to our existing washroom service business, with each being our existing customer database to target those customers where we successfully integrated on schedule.
The two most significant individual believe we can cross-sell additional products and services, focused acquisitions were the 24.9m investment in Airstream Services and our sales effort on the most appropriate prospects.
13.9m investment in Johnsons Washroom Services.
Leads United, our ongoing initiative to encourage our employees to generate sales leads, provided nearly 43,000 sales leads this year.
The recent opening of a new outbound call centre in Ammanford, West Wales, with the ability to house up to 200 people, gives us additional capacity to increase the volume of new business won and appointments made for the field sales force over the telephone.
Organic growth in turnover is the estimated increase in turnover in the year, excluding the effect of acquisitions.
It is not possible to determine the post-acquisition turnover precisely as the businesses acquired are incorporated into the existing operations.
In this fortieth year of PHSs history, we have once again delivered strong profitable growth demonstrating the benefits of good people, hard work, innovation and focus.
04 04 PHS Group plc PHS Group plc Chief Executives review continued We also made our first move outside the UK as a listed company People We continue to benefit from the high quality of our people with a 5.2m investment in the Dublin-based point of use and our commitment to investing in their training and personal water dispenser business, All Water Systems, in December 2003. development.
This investment enables an individual to perform This business will continue to be supported by a Dublin-based better in their current job and links personal development objectives administration and finance centre and has already adopted best with those of the Group.
practice in many areas that will increase its operational efficiency.
During the year, a new initiative, True Colors, was introduced Support from the Groups training, IT, marketing, finance and with the objective of improving teamwork.
This is proving effective in administration functions is also available to further maximise the the development of our people and consequently is having a positive efficiency of this business.
Details of acquisitions made during the year are set out in Our Group Investors in People IIP accredited in-house training the table below.
and development department has again proved to be of immense benefit.
4,943 training days were delivered in the year at 386 separate Operational improvements Continued investment in the design training events, a significant increase on the 4,600 days delivered in of our service vehicles and route planning software has contributed the previous year.
to improvements in service staff productivity.
Project Atlas, the Our policy remains to promote from within wherever possible introduction of new route planning software, has been fully whilst recognising that it is beneficial to bring in outside talent from implemented in PHS Treadsmart, resulting in service productivity time to time with new ideas to encourage creativity and innovation.
improvements in the order of 5%.
Following on from this success, we are in the process of rolling out the software in PHS Washrooms.
Outlook Our vision is to be the best workplace services provider Our excellent procurement programme continues to deliver in the UK, offering quality and value to our customers and a cost reductions through the negotiation and implementation of challenging, rewarding career for everyone in the Group.
With a longer-term deals with existing and new suppliers.
This year has seen great team of people throughout the Group, a strong financial a number of new procurement contracts negotiated and implemented position and numerous innovations and initiatives in place, that are expected to deliver ongoing annual savings of 1.8m, we are confident of another year of profitable growth ahead.
including individual contracts that are each expected to deliver ongoing annual savings in excess of 0.1m in areas such as mobile Peter Cohen telephones, paper tissue, IT software, mats and vehicle leasing.
Chief Executive We launched our Drive Safely initiative in January 2004, aimed at reducing motor accidents and thereby improving the health and safety of our employees who drive vehicles every day as part of their job.
The new initiative lays down guidelines on minimum recruitment standards, individual driver assessment, comprehensive training and improved accident reporting and investigation.
This is first and foremost a health and safety initiative but, when fully implemented, it is expected to deliver measurable cost savings.
Details of the acquisitions made during the year: Consideration Business name Division m Airstream Services Limited PHS Washrooms 24.9 Johnsons Washroom Services PHS Washrooms 13.9 All Water Systems Limited PHS Waterlogic 5.2 Other 17.6 61.6
