Chief Executive Officers review of operations A 32% year-on-year growth in dollar revenues in 2004 and the positive trend in our order backlog indicate that the ARM stand-alone business is in robust shape.
We look forward to 2005 with confidence as we start to realise the benefits arising from the acquisition of Artisan at the end of the year.
The year was one of growth and achievement for ARM, both Licensing activity was also strong: 65 licences 31 multi-use licences operationally and strategically.
Following a year of consolidation and 34 per-use licences were signed in 2004, compared with 51 in in 2003, we increased licensing activity and revenues, made two 2003.
Of the 65 licences, 15 were for ARM11 products, 31 for ARM9 acquisitions and expanded into new markets.
As 2004 ended, the products, 15 for ARM7 products, three for next-generation ARM business community was understandably cautious about external processors and one architecture licence.
Fifteen companies became factors, such as the weak dollar and the global economic climate, new ARM Partners, bringing the total to 140.
Two of our new Partners but our achievements during the year demonstrate that we are took multi-use licences and 13 took per-use licences.
Total licensing strongly positioned to continue to flourish in 2005. revenues in 2004 were 59.4 million 39% of total revenues compared with 50.8 million, or 40%, in 2003.
Acquisition of Artisan Components, Inc. We completed the acquisition of Artisan on 23 December 2004: Licensing activity demonstrated the breadth of our technology offer as the combined companys product portfolios and sales channel now well as the longevity of our products.
For example, our Partners have provide one of the broadest offerings of system-on-chip SoC IP to our been licensing products in the ARM7 family for more than 11 years, expanded customer base.
We expect the amalgamation of the ARM and and we expect the licensing of ARM7 family products to continue Artisan businesses to increase revenue, save costs by consolidating for some time.
selected corporate functions, deliver an attractive margin structure and generate strong cash flow.
The industrys commitment to ARM11 technology, and to complementary ARM technologies such as TrustZone security software and Jazelle The combined company will seek to leverage Artisans expertise in Java acceleration technology, was emphasised by the 15 new ARM11 physical IP design the essential building blocks of integrated circuits licences signed in 2004 making a total of 25 to date.
As ARM11 with ARMs expertise in designing microprocessors.
As a result, we will family products move into the mainstream licensing phase, it is be able to develop highly-optimised components for use in, and with, encouraging that licensing of the next generation of ARM technology our microprocessors, creating the potential to produce substantial began in 2004: we signed three Partners for our Tiger product.
Other benefits for end users, such as reduced power consumption and new technologies planned for delivery in 2005 are now available for increased processor speed.
licensing, and we will release details of them during 2005.
The integration of the businesses is proceeding as planned.
The former The strong licensing performance increased the order backlog in Artisan business now forms our Physical IP group, and one worldwide the fourth quarter of the year, with the result that it was approximately sales force is responsible for selling the full range of products.
ARMs 30% higher at the end of 2004 than at the end of 2003.
Revenues office in Los Gatos, California, closed in February 2005 and employees from licensing of products other than microprocessors comprised 18% relocated to Artisans Sunnyvale facility, our new US headquarters.
of the total in 2004, compared with 17% in 2003.
Shipments and licensing activity Product development, new technology and partnerships The electronics industry in general had a good year with growth The announcement in October 2004 of our new Cortex family of across all our key markets.
The sales of ARM Powered products microprocessors received an enthusiastic welcome from Partners.
Cortex provide a powerful indicator of our success: shipments in a single products will enable them to benefit from the incorporation of new year exceeded the one billion mark for the first time.
Total shipments features into microprocessors at various performance points.
The first increased 63%, from 782 million in 2003 to 1.3 billion.
Most newmember of the family, the ARM Cortex-M3 processor, is targeted at generation 3G mobile phones will be ARM Powered and the increasing extremely cost-sensitive embedded applications, such as microcontrollers, adoption of the technology has accelerated shipments in this market.
automotive body systems and white goods.
There were also significant increases in shipments of ARM Powered digital cameras: storage devices, such as hard disk drives: automotive A further significant technology was announced in May 2004 at the products and consumer electronics.
Embedded Processor Forum in San Jose, California.
Commonly known as a data engine, the ARM OptimoDE solution enables flexible, lowcost devices to be designed and developed at performance levels which 6 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 cannot be achieved by conventional design.
By the end of 2004, we had welcomed the first four licencees of OptimoDE technology, which can be used for any application that requires computationally intensive data and signal processing, including video, wireless LAN, audio, imaging and consumer entertainment.
Comprising a configurable data engine margin increasing gradually towards our target of around 30%.
On the signal processor, together with related IP and tools, it will be used in basis of our performance over the past 12 months, we are looking systems alongside existing ARM technologies, including the electronic forward with optimism.
system level ESL design tools from Axys.
People The acquisition of Axys, a provider of fast, accurate, integrated, In the summer of 2004 we accelerated recruitment and, by the end of processor and system modelling and simulation solutions, brings ESL the year, had 1,171 full-time employees, including 347 who joined the expertise to our RealView design tools portfolio.
The ESL products Company as part of the Artisan acquisition, up from 740 in December reduce overall system costs by enabling designs to be modelled early 2003.
The decision to increase headcount was underpinned by our in the development cycle, speeding time-to-market and minimising confidence in our potential for growth.
We recruited in most areas design errors.
of the business but, in particular, boosted the Development Systems team and expanded technical sales and marketing.
At the year end, In July we established an Embedded Software group to capitalise on the Company had 546 employees in the UK, 454 in the US, 79 in opportunities to generate revenues from software.
This team will build continental Europe, 51 in India and 41 in the Asia Pacific region.
on the foundation of the existing Jazelle Java acceleration technology, Intelligent Energy Manager IEM technology, TrustZone security The future software and Swerve co-developed with Superscape Group plc Our investments in important developing markets, combined with technology.
It will bring more focus to the development of enabling the acquisitions of Axys and Artisan, are evidence of our belief that the software technology to support growth in microprocessor and physical future offers great opportunities for the development of our business.
IP licensing, Development Systems and data engines revenues.
Together, they will facilitate the design of highly-optimised, costeffective systems, which incorporate hardware and software, resulting In October, we held the first ARM Developers Conference in Santa Clara.
in faster time to revenue for our Partners, their customers and, of This epitomised the ARM Connected Community: it brought together course, for us.
more than 2,000 delegates and 100 exhibitors from across the world.
The attendees all had a common interest a desire to play a role in The two acquisitions we made in 2004 have set us ahead of the the development of solutions based on ARM IP.
The event was an competition.
Add to this the momentum from the royalties earned and unqualified success and we are already organising the 2005 conference.
licences signed in 2004, our ever-expanding Partner network and the exciting new applications currently being developed to run on our Revenue and margins processors, and our reasons for optimism are clear.
Healthy licensing activity and significant growth in shipments of ARM Powered products had a positive impact.
In sterling, revenue rose by 19% compared with 2003: in dollar terms, the growth was even more impressive, at 32%.
Effective cost control resulted in our operating profit Warren East Chief Executive Officer ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 7 Review of operations at home ARM IP makes life easier by being at the heart of countless products used at home, from plasma TVs to washing machines and from gaming consoles to refrigerators Take a look back over the past five years and ask, How has technology improved?
It was not that long ago that all but the most expensive TVs were large boxes that took up an entire corner of a room: gaming machines were slow, and mobile phones had monochrome screens The latest generation of mobile phones has redefined the boundaries and limited battery life.
3G technology, which is becoming widely adopted around the world, offers video phone and music download in Naturally, we only know the shortcomings of past technology in the palm of the hand.
At the time, not even well-informed consumers knew what future technology would deliver.
ARM, on the other hand, had a pretty We have played a significant role, along with our Partners, in the good idea.
development of these and other technology-based products.
Although consumers are unaware of what lies inside the products they use, the This is because ARM has been a part of the technology innovation for worlds leading semiconductor manufacturers have licensed our IP and it 20 years.
Our technology can be found at the heart of countless products.
is their products the small, yet increasingly powerful, microprocessors At home, at work and on the move, our IP is playing a central role in which have enabled greater innovation by the manufacturers of digital the quest for ever faster, less power hungry, more secure, increasingly devices.
This has enabled these companies to create products that portable and more compact digital products.
appeal to an increasing group of consumers.
Whereas technology products used to be confined to specific niches, microprocessors Plasma-screen TVs, for example, are rapidly replacing traditional models.
and, therefore, ARM are now everywhere.
As well as being more stylish, space efficient and offering high-quality audio-visual entertainment, they are increasingly affordable.
Similarly, This is reflected in the royalties that we earn every time an ARM gaming machines offer vastly enhanced performance and capabilities: Powered product is shipped.
In 2004, shipments exceeded the one vivid sound, high-definition graphics and dynamic gameplay.
The billion mark per year and, as microprocessors are used in a wider range gaming experience on consoles and on handheld devices is a huge of consumer products including white goods such as washing machines improvement over previous models.
and refrigerators, the number and type of ARM Powered products will continue to increase.
8 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 ARM IP is at the heart of many phones to next-generation plasmaOur technology is not only present in of the digital products used in screen TVs, stereo systems and products used for entertainment, it can everyday life.
Our technology gaming consoles even concept be found in many household items that enables innovative new developments products such as an ARM Powered we take for granted such as washing in home entertainment and DVD coffee maker.
machines, refrigerators and home security communications, and can be found in systems.
ARM IP is central to the everything from feature-rich mobile microprocessors that power these and similar items.
Manufacturers of digital products are driven by the need to stay ahead vendors, we provide the foundation for some of the industrys most of the competition and to respond quickly to consumer demand.
a result, microprocessors must be faster, more versatile, smaller and more energy efficient.
Development times for new products shorten Technology is constantly changing, but ARM continues to be devoted every year.
Consistently meeting and exceeding such demands is our to its partnership business model.
Through interaction, the sharing speciality and our success is derived from the unique relationships of information and ideas and close collaboration, companies across we share with our multitude of Partners.
the globe are working with ARM, and one another, to create the next generation of technology-based products for use at home.
This is illustrated by the ARM Connected Community which now embraces more than 200 Partners from across the technology spectrum.
Bringing together many types of technology companies including semiconductor manufacturers, development tools suppliers and operating system OS ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 9 Review of operations at work ARM IP makes life more efficient, enabling its Partners to create more functional products by increasing performance and decreasing power consumption Microprocessors have been ubiquitous in the workplace for more than two decades: virtually everyone now uses microprocessor technology on a daily basis.
It is not surprising, therefore, that just as our IP powers countless technology products at home, we have a considerable, and One reason for our success in this, and all markets, is our focus on increasing presence, in the world of work.
enabling our Partners to develop increasingly innovative applications based on our architecture.
Although we are committed to introducing Many ARM Powered products are used at home and at work.
Personal new IP, our reputation is built on much more than the capabilities of digital assistants PDAs, for example, have become a regular feature our designs.
ARM Development Systems provides a comprehensive of many peoples lives and offer a wealth of instantly accessible range of solutions to help developers make the most of ARM IP.
Like so many other technology products, each generation complement our processors and include software, and hardware tools of PDAs is smaller, more powerful and offers greater battery life than which are designed to speed time-to-market, while also reducing the its predecessor, and we continue to play a significant role in the risk and cost of development.
In addition, we have partnerships with a wide range of providers Mobile devices offer even greater functionality.
Some contain multiple of complementary solutions, from suppliers of embedded OS and ARM microprocessors: one for processing information, for example, development environments, to specialists in electronic design automation and another for networking functions.
In addition, the latest handheld EDA, to application software providers.
Our partnerships with the computers are also wireless devices.
The adoption of industry standards, leaders in these fields give our silicon Partners considerable advantages such as Bluetooth and WLAN, has helped narrow the gap between the in the quest for ever-more innovative products.
capabilities of mobile and wireless and wireline technologies.
By combining our IP with third-party software, our silicon Partners design microprocessors which push the boundaries of performance and power efficiency.
The net result for users is greater functionality, improved efficiency and faster communications.
The contemporary office communicates like never before.
Flexibility and mobility are key factors.
Many products, including printers, are now wireless devices.
At the same time, they combine scanning and photocopying functions, 10 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 The convergence of mobile communication and PDA computing technologies, which is being driven by our Partners ARM Powered solutions, is making information instantly accessible to everyone, whether in the home or at work.
With the recent advancements in increase the scope of where and ARM is also at the heart of the wireless technology, ARM IP is able how we do business from handheld technology that supports and connects to play a vital role in bringing freedom computers and smart phones to fax people in the traditional workplace and convenience to the workplace.
Our IP can be found in Our technology powers a range of the IT servers and modems that are products that can communicate to used everyday and that we rely on to each other without wires, and that ensure high-performance and efficiency.
and produce high-quality output in a fraction of the time of previous ARM Powered products are also found in other work environments.
generations and at less cost.
From mobile bar code readers, to electronic test and measurement equipment, and to factory and warehouse automation systems, the Again, ARM IP is at the heart of the networking and storage markets.
ARM architecture is gaining support across an increasingly diverse range ARM Powered products include the servers, modems and firewalls that of applications.
ensure high performance, reliable and secure connections within and between offices around the world.
Each new product that incorporates ARM IP strengthens our connection with the continuing technology revolution that touches everyones Our microproccessors are ideally suited to the storage market, to enable lives.
At home and at work, wherever you live and whatever you do, OEMs to pack increasingly large amounts of media into smaller devices.
it is likely that you will use an ARM Powered product at some point Whether it is a hard disk drive, a memory card or a personal storage in your day.
device that plugs into a Universal Serial Bus USB port, performance and affordability are vital considerations.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 11 Review of operations on the move ARM IP makes life more fun for consumers by enabling our Partners to shape tomorrows world today: now we can take photographs with our mobile phones and talk to our friends through our TVs Not long ago, pocket-sized video cameras, video phones and biometric identification systems existed only in futuristic movies.
Now, these products are commonplace and often ARM Powered, and they confirm that the future of everyday technology is more exciting than ever.
Security is an increasingly important issue for many people but so is When travelling between work and home, enjoying leisure time or having fun.
Our technology is used as much in portable audio-visual simply buying groceries, ARM Powered products play an increasing products as it is in the security market.
Some of the worlds most advanced digital cameras, for example, are The automotive market is a prime example.
By 2007, it is estimated ARM Powered.
From affordable models for amateur photographers, to that the average mid-range car will contain up to 70 microprocessors.
those used by professionals, more and more digital cameras incorporate The latest ARM Powered products in this market include advanced antiour architecture.
Our IP makes it possible to hold a video conference lock braking systems and GPS navigation that provides a 3D view of the through the family TV: it also makes it possible to produce digital video road ahead.
Our IP has also been used by the creators of a solarcameras the size of a pack of playing cards.
For decades, magnetic tape was a chosen medium for portable sound ARM Powered products also protect your money.
In the past, bank and vision.
A standard audio tape stored 90 minutes of music: now, and credit cards, for example, stored data on a magnetic strip.
The personal audio players give music lovers on the move immediate new generation of smartcards takes security to a new level with access to thousands of songs and hours of enjoyment.
The storage highly-secure microprocessors which greatly reduce the incidence of capacity of personal audio players is an important buying criterion, but fraud.
Our architecture is also in electronic point-of-sale EPoS so is size and battery life.
On all counts, ARM Powered products have terminals, PinPads and ATMs.
Only a few years ago, it would have been impossible to store more than 2,500 songs on any device but now, products which do just that are available.
And many, including the market leaders, are based on the ARM architecture.
12 ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 Our IP is playing an increasingly large role in the automotive world, especially in terms of safety.
An average car may contain up to 70 microprocessors powering devices from satellite navigation to anti-lock braking systems.
The ARM architecture is used in many Our solutions are not only a part of Not only is ARM technology at the of the most advanced digital cameras the visual technology revolution but heart of your car, it also plays a role and camera phones.
Our IP is at the also the audio, with many marketin protecting your money.
Credit and forefront of this field, enabling the leading personal audio players now debit cards, ATMs and PinPads now development of ever-faster and more being ARM Powered.
We also play use microprocessors, many of which compact devices.
a central role in the technology that are ARM Powered, to store data and enables innovative new products such to prevent fraud.
Some ARM Powered products combine digital music and still pictures Take a look forward over the next five years and ask How much will in one device.
Indeed, convergence is an irresistible trend in the technology change?
Nobody has the definitive answer, but you can be technology industry.
In the same way that technology has crossed sure ARM has a good idea.
We will continue to be at the heart of the divide between home and work, it has also occupied the space advanced digital devices at home, at work and on the move.
Technology is now so well established that traditional boundaries between products functions and where they are used are becoming blurred.
As a result, the worlds microprocessor manufacturers and the OEMs that design the technology products we use every day are demanding more.
These companies need complete solutions which encompass microprocessor IP, physical IP, development tools, software and a host of complementary third-party products.
For this reason, ARM is uniquely positioned for the future.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2004 13
