CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW WELL POSITIONED FOR GROWTH electronic equipment.
Further laws are designed seen progress with our global and major to govern the disposal of waste electronic and customers, where our ability to provide a electrical goods.
We estimate this will affect customised eProcurement solution has between 25 per cent and 30 per cent of the delivered significant sales growth rates.
As manufacturers determine their individual responses, customers are Our suite of customer relationship management looking for information and guidance.
We are systems is now fully implemented in Newark establishing a leadership position by using InOne in the US and Farnell InOne in the UK our knowledge and expertise to help and we are seeing some real benefits in our customers and suppliers prepare for this service to customers, our own productivity and change through web sites and an active the intelligence we have readily available to communications programme.
Our Proposition Our global product database and publication For some years, we have defined our market management systems are delivering proposition as one of providing economic genuine improvements in our productivity, benefit and peace of mind to our customers significantly reducing the time and resources and suppliers.
Our customers come to us for required to prepare product catalogues and three main reasons a broad product range, promotional materials.
available on demand, and quick and effective delivery.
From this, our customers can be more We are well positioned to respond to our efficient and have greater reassurance than if customers drive to reduce the overall costs of they had to search less reliable sources for procuring indirect materials, taking our inventory product.
The range of additional services we management and procurement skills into the have developed to strengthen this basic heart of our customers businesses.
proposition enables us to build much stronger and more permanent customer relationships.
We have made good progress identifying and These services include vendor managed penetrating new markets.
We have expanded inventory systems, which reduce our customers our operations in China, with the opening of a need to hold stock, and tailored eProcurement sales office and distribution centre in Shanghai, and web site solutions, which help save time and sales in Mexico are building satisfactorily as and reduce administration costs.
our new office and distribution centre becomes John Hirst established.
Each time we identify a new Group Chief Executive Over recent years, we have built upon our customer group or segment and focus our skills relationship with suppliers, adding value by upon it, we make particularly good progress.
With two million customer contacts on our database, our Looking ahead suppliers understand and appreciate the As momentum builds in our markets, we are unparalleled reach that we now have in the well positioned to benefit.
Our new systems are Market Dynamics market place.
fully operational, with the right people in place Although less volatile than the semi-conductor to exploit the opportunities they present.
By market, our trading environment is determined in Progress against our strategy gaining market share through the downturn, we part by the cyclical nature of the global electronic Our strategy is to drive for sales and profits have demonstrated our successful strategy of components market.
Regionally, the timing of the growth, by increasing spend from existing focussing on specific groups of customers cycle creates different impacts.
Whilst Asia has customers, recruiting new customers, understanding their needs and deploying our been growing for over 18 months, fuelled by the developing new markets and acquisitions.
resources to respond to them.
rapid growth in China, and there have been the first signs of improvement in North America since A key element in winning business with existing There are still uncertainties around the duration the middle of last year, there are still no notable and new customers is adding products to our and scale of the market upturn in North signs of growth in Europe.
range to satisfy more needs for more customers.
America, so we will continue to manage our We have made significant progress this year in costs carefully.
Then, as we grow, a significant This pattern has undoubtedly been influenced expanding our product range, particularly to proportion of sales growth, from our efforts and by the continued migration of production to low strengthen our offer to design engineers and we the improved market, falls to the bottom line.
cost economies from Western Europe and will continue to push these product expansions.
North America to Mexico, Eastern Europe and, This year has seen solid results in a tough in particular, China.
From our North American inventories, we are market and good progress against our now able to ship direct to customers in Europe objectives.
We have the capacity in both The shift towards greater volumes of business and Asia Pacific in three days.
This has added infrastructure and people to continue to build being conducted on the web and through 70,000 products to our offer in these markets.
on the market share gains we have seen in eProcurement is gaining momentum.
Our Rebranding four of our businesses under the Europe and to take advantage of the market customers are continually driving to reduce InOne label has enabled us to communicate upturn we are beginning to see in North the costs of procuring consumables and more effectively the full range of products and America.
We have continued to upgrade our looking for productivity improvements and services we offer across our businesses to both management team and have some outstanding waste elimination, including supplier base our customers and suppliers.
people working in our business.
Increasingly, they are focussing on their key skills and out sourcing non-strategic As the shift to eCommerce continues, Notwithstanding the considerable organic skills, relying on companies like ours to provide reaching 11% of total sales of the Marketing growth potential, we will continue to review good efficient sourcing.
and Distribution Division this year, the level of quality acquisition opportunities as they arise.
business we transact with our customers In Europe and several US States, legislation is through eProcurement channels continues to pending which restricts the use of heavy metals grow, delivering cost efficiencies.
We have also like lead and cadmium in electrical and CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED BROADENING OUR OFFER WITH SUPPORT LIKE THIS WE CAN CONTINUE TO PROVIDE FIRST CLASS SERVICE AND IMPRESS OUR GROWING NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS.
MARK A. FERGUSON DIRECTOR TRIFIX ELECTRONIC SERVICES LTD Business issue The solution Specialising in industrial electronics, Trifix As part of the InOne family of businesses, Electronics Services Ltd. based in the North of Farnell InOne has access to millions of products England provides hi-tech repairs to items such from around the world.
as sophisticated pressing machinery, test and measurement and robotics equipment.
More specifically, its Newark InOne Direct Ship service gives customers easy access to an Trifix started business in 2003 and is rapidly additional 70,000 products from Newark InOne building a reputation for the speed and in the US.
professionalism of its service crucial factors for its customer base.
The sales team from Farnell InOne was able to locate the specific components required, which Late one Monday afternoon, Trifix had a call were not available anywhere in the UK, from from an automotive component manufacturing Newark InOne.
Trifix placed the order at company that had an urgent repair need for 6.30 pm on Monday and received delivery by part of its manufacturing equipment.
The speed 9.30 am on Wednesday.
By mid afternoon, Trifix of repair to this equipment was of the essence, had completed the repair and had the as potential production downtime penalties, equipment back on site with its customer.
running at thousands of pounds per minute, could be levied on the automotive component The benefits manufacturer.
Easy access to a huge range of products not available in the UK Typically, this type of expensive capital Technical data available from Farnell InOne to equipment comes from outside the UK and enable the correct products to be ordered replacement component lead times from the quickly and easily manufacturers can be 12-14 weeks.
Rapid delivery direct from the US Trifix needed to identify and source the repair Ability to service its own customers, meeting components rapidly.
their critical needs for urgent solutions 08 PREMIER FARNELL PLC CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BROADENING OUR OFFER ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 CONTINUED Where we add value 400,000 products in stock, access to over 4 million more, same day despatch and fast delivery I have easy access to a huge ProductWatch ProductFind Technical advice Cu breadth and range of I am notified if a component I have assistance in locating, I can get good technical advice ca components and products, I want to specify is becoming and can get a quotation on, over the phone and easily W leading brands and new obsolete or out of stock and not-in-catalogue products obtain relevant technical data ca technology all from one a replacement is suggested quickly and from one source.
and information on the web.
pr supplier available on the web, to me.
bu on CD and in catalogues.
Benefit Benefit pr Benefit I can deal with one supplier The free and readily Benefit I save time, money and effort for all my product requirements available advice means I Be This enables me to focus my which would otherwise be and save time searching for can make a more informed W time on my design work.
I save wasted using a component unusual products.
vis time and money sourcing all which is becoming obsolete ca the products I need in and finding a replacement.
Design engineer Design engineer co one place.
or Design engineer Design engineer Pu Where we add value 400,000 products in stock, access to over 4 million more, same day despatch and fast delivery I have easy access to a huge ProductWatch ProductFind Technical advice Customised electronic Quote, kit and supply Line-side inventory and Stockroom management breadth and range of I am notified if a component I have assistance in locating, I can get good technical advice catalogue We can get all the components daily replenishment We use the Premier Farnell components and products, I want to specify is becoming and can get a quotation on, over the phone and easily We can have an electronic in a bill of materials priced, Products required for fast stockroom management leading brands and new obsolete or out of stock and not-in-catalogue products obtain relevant technical data catalogue of just those bagged into the quantity needed moving lines and critical system to manage the technology all from one a replacement is suggested quickly and from one source.
products required in our for each unit of production and spares are located next to engineering stores and stocks.
supplier available on the web, to me.
business and our orders are supplied by one supplier.
When a product is used it is on CD and in catalogues.
automatically replaced within Benefit I can deal with one supplier The free and readily Benefit Benefit a specified time.
Benefit I save time, money and effort for all my product requirements available advice means I Benefit We can reduce the number of We save time spent walking This enables me to focus my which would otherwise be and save time searching for can make a more informed We have better control and suppliers we deal with, and to, and waiting at stores, and Benefit time on my design work.
visibility of purchases and save time searching for products the cost of extra products We save cost and production time and money sourcing all which is becoming obsolete can reduce the administration and obtaining price quotations.
and spares being hoarded in downtime.
Automatic the products I need in and finding a replacement.
Design engineer Design engineer costs in placing and processing We save time in production the production area.
replenishment enables us to one place.
having all the parts we need for reduce the stocks of products Design engineer an item together and to hand.
Maintenance engineer held in stores whilst making Design engineer Purchasing professional sure that products dont go Purchasing professional out of stock.
Maintenance engineer BROADENING OUR OFFER CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PREMIER FARNELL PLC 09 CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
