CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Driven to create value If our products make life a little easier for you, you will try them.
If we keep making them better, well earn your trust and loyalty.
So were passionate about understanding what drives you mad, and xing it.
Thats what keeps our business growing.
Harpic and Lysol Ready Brush combined a convenient lavatory brush with builtMortein launched in foaming cleaner.
Power Booster new long-lasting mosquito coils that boost protection Mortein every 30 minutes and an outdoor barrier spray.
Professional, FIVE YEARS OF PROGRESS It is now five years since we created Reckitt Benckiser.
This anniversary is an opportunity to look back and see how weve done and to look forward to what we hope to be.
We grew net revenues faster than our industry.
Like-for-like growth of over 7% per year has put us consistently ahead of our peer group.
And since 1999 weve added around 900m to our net revenues.
We grew profits faster than our industry.
We have almost tripled our net income from 200m in 1999 to 586m in 2004.
Last year was one of our best years ever.
success strengthened our position in We generated 2.5bn in net cash ow, Revenues and income were up for the our key categories.
of which over 50% was returned to Vanish Oxi Action extended its range fifth year running.
Net revenues grew shareholders through share buy backs 10% at constant exchange rates to with even better products like Vanish and dividends.
The remainder we 3,871m, net income grew 20% Oxi Action Max and Vanish Oxi Action used to pay off all the Companys to 586m.
We also entered new market net borrowings.
Operating profit grew 18% at constant segments with the launch of Vanish Oxi The key to this success?
Living our exchange rates to 759m.
Operating Action Pre-Treater and Vanish Oxi vision of constantly improving our margins expanded 1.3 percentage points Action Carpet.
All share the magic of products, to the ultimate benefit of to 19.6%, driven by a 1.5 percentage powerful fabric stain removal that you our shareholders.
Finish Extra point increase in gross margins and tight can see before your eyes.
We are now selling substantially more introduced our best ever cleaning control of xed costs.
Power than five years ago because we consistently We also signicantly strengthened the formula in automatic dishwashing now deliver ever-better solutions to consumers.
Companys nances while returning a particularly effective against baked-on We are experts in identifying everyday total of 500m to shareholders over the stains such as pasta or egg.
We launched irritations and eliminating them through Veet Rasera our fastest ever depilatory year.
Net funds reached 638m after a innovative new or improved products.
The 21% increase in the dividend and 283m cream, which works in just three little things that drive you mad drive us to Airwick MobilAir created a of share repurchases.
create products that do the job better.
But financial results alone do not tell new segment in Air Care: portable Products like Vanish Oxi Action, Lysol the full story.
We launched some great electricals.
Its battery powered diffuser disinfectant spray, Airwick electrical air new products in 2004 and their can be used anywhere in the house.
fresheners, Finish 3in1 and Veet Rasera Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 Annual Report 2004 3 3 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW make consumers lives a little easier at of reinvestment.
grown from 11.9% in 1999 to 19.6% in crucial moments.
And we roll out our key brands and 2004, and we are well placed to hit our That is the basis for a healthy business, innovations geographically.
Vanish and stated target of at least 20% operating and we have a clear strategy for building Veet, for example, are now present in margins in 2006. on it to deliver profitable growth.
The most of the countries in which we operate.
All this is possible because we have Company is aligned behind that strategy As a result of these actions we are built a corporate culture that supports and our single-minded focus on consistently growing ahead of the our strategy.
Our management team delivering it is reflected in our results.
is truly multinational a dozen Convert this growth into higher profit nationalities are represented in our top Thus far we have OUR STRATEGY and cash ow growth.
And we share Let me remind you of our strategy.
placed particular emphasis on expanding strongly embedded values of Deliver above industry average gross margin through product mix and achievement, commitment, entreprenWe do this in four ways.
cost optimisation, and by leveraging eurship and teamwork.
We strengthen our business by focusxed costs and the Companys financial Reckitt Benckiser people are ing on strong brands in high growth strength.
As we achieve margins in immediately identiable by their passion categories.
Currently 53% of our net line with the best of our peer group, for the business, their ownership of the revenue comes from our powerbrands, our operating model is inevitably and issues, their commitment to deliver their the agships in our key categories.
In the future, more targets and their ability to align together We maintain a high level of product of our profit growth will come from behind common strategies.
As a team we innovation to deliver better solutions to even stronger pursuit of top-line are enormously passionate about what we consumers and constantly rejuvenate our growth, and somewhat less from do, and I think that shows.
Our innovation rate margin expansion.
Together, our strategy and culture have reduce means we now generate around 40% of However, we will continue to delivered a substantial increase in In 1999 we net revenues from products launched in costs to optimise margins.
Total shareholder the prior three years.
trailed our peer group, with gross return has consistently outperformed We back our products and brands margins at 46.4%.
Now we are both our own industry and the major with a high level of marketing investchallenging the leaders at 54.8% an market indices.
Media spending alone has almost increase of 1.7 percentage points a year.
on the day of the merger was around doubled to the industrys highest level As a result our operating margins have 4.9bn: today it is nearly 11.5bn.
So where do we hope to be in the future?
The quality of our people is critical to We want to pursue our vision for achieving our long-term objectives.
Well consistently aim to My colleagues consistently achieve deliver better solutions to them so the remarkable things through their time they spend on household cleaning passion for the business and obsession and personal care is easier, shorter or with success.
I thank all of them for more pleasant.
what they have contributed and look We want to be a great place to work for forward to their continuing support as employees.
Well offer them our we strive to be where we want to be in interesting and challenging international the years ahead.
career paths and give them the Over the past five years, our success opportunity to succeed.
has been underpinned by two things: our We want to play a responsible role in ability to spot those little frustrations society.
We have a duty to manage the that drive consumers mad, and the business in a way that leaves it stronger passion that drives us to nd solutions.
for the future and is endorsed by Why am I so confident that we can society at large.
To that end, we are continue to nd new consumer products addressing the impact of our business and solutions?
Because its ingrained in on the environment, on the commuour culture as youll see from the nities in which we operate, and on examples on the following pages society as a whole to ensure it is progressively more beneficial.
As a consequence of all this, we want to continue our strong performance for shareholders.
If we can meet the Bart Becht Chief Executive officer objectives above, I have no doubt that we will continue to generate interesting returns for shareholders, simply because Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2004 5
