CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW This year represents the 30th anniversary of the formation of Redrow and its 10th anniversary as a quoted company.
Over those ten years, profit before tax has increased from 21.3m to 124.1m, and reported earnings per share from 7.9p to 54.8p, representing compound annual growth of 19.3% and 21.4% respectively, the growth in earnings per share being enhanced by the 115.0m share buy back effected in September 2000.
Financial returns, in particular operating margin and return on capital employed, have been maintained at the forefront of sector performance, whilst Redrows commitment to quality and corporate social responsibility has been acknowledged through a number of important awards.
The most significant recent achievement, however, has been the Paul Pedley positioning of Redrow to meet the challenges of tomorrow.
The first Chief Executive fundamental key to success is our people.
Accordingly, our management teams have been strengthened to ensure that the clear communication of Redrow objectives is complemented by effective management within This has the operating companies.
Furthermore, the development teams and project management capability of Redrow Commercial have been been another embedded within the overall Group structure, so providing an improved focus on and delivery of mixed use developments.
year of record In addition, the geographical coverage of Redrow has been extended, with the formation of Redrow Homes South Midlands last year and achievement Redrow Homes West Country this year.
We intend to extend this coverage further to encompass the East Midlands region in the near for Redrow future whilst, at the same time, establishing a Regeneration Team to focus on the highly important East Thames Corridor so as to capitalise on this major area of growth.
Redrow is a truly national provider of homes and the expanded corporate and management structure will have the potential to deliver 7,000 legal completions per annum.
Regents Park, Chester 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The new housing range at Cwrt Penrhiwtyn, Neath The second fundamental The Barker Report, published in March 2004, highlighted the key to success is land.
continuing under-supply of new homes in the UK and the deficiencies As a result of our long of the current planning regime.
However, it also identified key term land strategy, the challenges for our industry, particularly in the areas of customer service, financial year to June increased build efficiency and training.
The Group has already risen to 2004 has witnessed these challenges so ensuring that Redrow remains at the forefront of our significant growth in our sector.
land holdings, so The new team at Redrow Homes West Country underpinning the future development of the Group.
However, it is important that the strength of our land bank is complemented by an efficient portfolio of well designed homes and, as previously reported, our new housing range was launched this year.
The new range combines the kerb appeal and the quality of design with which Redrow has become synonymous, with enhanced cost control and improved construction methods, particularly through the use of increased off-site prefabrication.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 9 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT Redrow Homes has again reported record results, with operating profit increasing by 17.7% to 131.2m.
Redrow Homes has again reported record results, with turnover To balance the impact of a normal housing market, Redrow Homes increasing by 11.2% to 662.7m and operating profit by 17.7% to has capitalised on the strength of its land bank and continued to 131.2m.
These results were secured from 4,284 2003 : 4,031 legal expand the number of active developments to in excess of 100. completions with an average selling price of 154,700 2003 : Reservations in the financial year to June 2004 totalled 4,566, in line 147,900.
As is traditional for Redrow Homes, the legal completion with the previous year, although, as reported last year, this comparison profile was marginally weighted towards the second half of the includes the highly successful launch, in January 2003, of Altolusso, financial year, reflecting the underlying level of organic growth, with the In the City development in Cardiff, where 155 reservations were 1,996 46.6% and 2,288 53.4% legal completions in the first and secured over the initial launch period with a further 87 reservations second halves respectively.
prior to the end of that financial year.
This continuing strong sales performance enabled Redrow Homes to end the year with a record I referred last year to the significant variations in our regional markets forward sales position of 2,344 units with a sales value of 398m, with the Western and Northern Regions experiencing stronger market representing increases of 13.7% and 30.9% respectively on last year.
conditions than the Southern Region.
This trend continued through to Spring 2004, when, as a result of increased interest rates and cautionary statements by the Governor of the Bank of England, the housing market resumed its soft landing, first experienced in the Southern Region eighteen months earlier.
As a result, the rate of increase in selling prices is moderating, which, when combined with the underlying level of demographic growth, a continuing shortage of quality housing and sound consumer confidence driven by high levels of employment, should result in a sustainable normal housing market.
Interior at Altolusso, Cardiff 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Altolusso, Cardiff, nearing construction completion CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 11 Light steel frame construction will deliver benefits to both Redrow Homes and its customers through reduced build times, improved quality and lower maintenance.
Due to continuing cost pressures, particularly in relation to skilled The Government has significantly increased the focus on housing, trades, the focus within Redrow Homes remains on innovation and particularly through the commissioning of the Barker Report which the continuing development of key relationships with major suppliers clearly endorses the need for a substantial increase in the provision of and subcontractors.
Whilst initially, new build techniques may be new homes.
This provision is weighted towards the South-East via the slightly more expensive, their wider utilisation combined with key growth areas of Milton Keynes, Stansted, Ashford and the East increased efficiency will tend to reduce future costs by comparison Thames Corridor.
The restructuring of the Southern Region reported with traditional building methods.
In particular, our utilisation of last year has been successfully implemented.
Redrow Homes light steel frames continues to increase and approximately 15% of Southern has relocated to Basingstoke in Hampshire and Redrow production in the year to June 2005 is expected to incorporate this Homes Eastern to Laindon, near Basildon in Essex.
Redrow Homes method of construction, almost double the level of the previous year.
South Midlands, based in Northampton, has delivered a meaningful This will deliver benefits to both Redrow Homes and its customers contribution to profitability in its first full year of trading.
This through reduced build times, improved quality and lower restructuring, combined with the establishment of a Regeneration maintenance.
Team to focus on the East Thames Corridor has placed Redrow Homes in a strong position to benefit from the existing and future Operating margins in Redrow Homes have continued to increase, Government initiatives to increase housing supply in these areas.
recording levels of 19.5% and 20.0% in the first and second halves respectively.
The overall annual operating margin of 19.8% compares with 18.7% last year.
This improvement is in part due to the strength of the sales market, particularly in the Western and Northern Regions: it equally reflects the quality of the Groups land bank and the active management of costs.
However, the Board continues to believe that, as house price inflation returns to its historical relationship with earnings, operating margins will, over a period, fall to around 17.0% to 17.5%, a level which is currently considered to be sustainable in normal market conditions.
The period over which operating margins return to these levels will be dependent upon the rate at which the inflationary element currently contained within the Group's land bank unwinds.
Light steel frame construction at Eton Court, Pengam Green, Cardiff Orion at Odyssey, London Docklands 12 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW REGIONAL PERFORMANCE River Court, Exeter It is the Group's regional coverage that provides the opportunity for average selling price were marginally below the levels of the previous future growth.
As currently structured, each of the three regions has the year due to the timing of completions on In the City developments.
potential to deliver between 2,000 and 2,500 legal completions per Turnover for Southern totalled 187.9m as compared with 203.4m in annum.
Northern, the Group's longest established region, delivered 2,108 legal Western continues to make significant progress, with legal completions completions as compared with 1,982 in the previous year, an increase of increasing by 18.4% to 1,134 units and the average selling price by 6.4%, representing 49.2% 2003 : 49.2% of total completions.
As a result, turnover grew during The average selling price increased by 12.8% to 144,900 reflecting the year by 23.0% to 169.6m, to yield an increase over the last three both an enhanced mix and the strength of the housing market.
This clearly demonstrates Redrow's ability to deliver turnover increased by 19.9% to 305.4m.
organic growth in new geographical areas.
Southern achieved 1,042 2003 : 1,091 legal completions representing 24.3% 2003 : 27.1% of total completions, with an average selling price of 180,300 2003 : 186,400.
Both legal completions and CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 13 THE REDROW POR TFOLIO The maintenance of a broad portfolio of designs is key to Redrows marketing strategy.
Light steel frame homes at The Hollows, Wellingborough The positioning of our product range in the market place, with an This diversity, however, must be tempered with the need for average selling price substantially in line with the market average, and standardisation within the construction process, so as to enhance the maintenance of a broad portfolio of designs are key components of build efficiency and maintain sound cost control.
The new housing Redrows marketing strategy.
The retention of our distinct range enables the achievement of all these objectives.
Based upon a specifications, with the Contemporary range more focused on newer highly flexible portfolio of generic house styles, the new range customers to the homes market, the Sapphire and Emerald ranges combines the quality of design, both internally and externally, which satisfying the needs of established home owners and our In the City characterised the Heritage and Harwood ranges, with standardisation schemes meeting the aspirations of city dwellers, enables Redrow to within the construction process.
It also maintains flexibility in fulfil the requirements of a broad range of customers.
Indeed, this elevational treatments so as to match the local vernacular and satisfy targeting of a broad range of customers is fundamental to maximising the expectations of planning authorities.
14 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In reviewing the product portfolio over the last three years, the most Over the last few years, the Governments focus on brownfield significant trend has been the increased contribution from the development, particularly in our towns and cities, has resulted in a Contemporary formerly Harwood specification.
Whilst the Sapphire and marked shift in the mix of new homes provided by our industry.
Emerald formerly Heritage specifications still represent, at 57.1%, the Indeed last year, the industry built more apartments than detached majority of legal completions, over the last three years the contribution homes.
Redrow is not immune from this trend, although as previously from the Contemporary specification has risen to 32.2%, representing an stated, the investment in capital intensive schemes is carefully increase from 695 to 1,379 legal completions.
The average selling price controlled.
As a corollary to this mix change, over the last twelve of the Sapphire and Emerald ranges combined was 178,300 whilst that months the average size of a Redrow home has reduced by 4.5% to of Contemporary was 114,800, representing increases on the previous approximately 1,000 sq.
It is important in formulating future housing year of 7.4% and 13.9% respectively.
policy that the Government recognises the needs and aspirations of all existing and future home occupiers and maintains a balanced approach To complement the standard Redrow portfolio, several In the City to the provision of new homes.
developments continue to be undertaken.
The number of such schemes is carefully controlled due to the significant management time involved in ensuring the successful development of each scheme and, from a financial viewpoint, their capital intensive nature.
During the year, In the City schemes contributed 10.7% of total legal completions, with an average selling price of 148,700.
Of particular significance was Velocity in Leeds which was completed during the financial year and delivered 241 legal completions.
In addition Jupiter, the continuing scheme in Birmingham, contributed 175 legal completions.
Other In the City schemes under development include Odyssey in London, Altolusso in Cardiff, Neptune Marina in Ipswich and The Boardwalk in Eastbourne.
To balance the higher capital investment associated with In the City schemes, it is important to maintain a very strong forward sales position.
It is therefore pleasing to report that by the financial year end, 623 2003 : 595 forward sales had been secured.
Kings Court Apartments, Chorley, Lancashire Jupiter, In the City apartment scheme, Birmingham CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 15 DEVELOPING A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE During the last twelve months, the current land bank has increased to 17,400 plots.
Land is one of the fundamental keys to success and represents a major The forward land bank remains a major provider of development land, component in the Groups future growth, profitability and with 28% of the land acquired during the current financial year sustainability.
During the financial year, the current land bank has sourced through this route, complementing the 30% contribution been extended from 16,000 plots to 17,400 plots, representing, on an during the previous financial year.
At the financial year end the historic basis, a four year land supply.
Of these plots, 15,000 are forward land bank contained 1,800 plots where planning permission owned with planning, an increase on the previous year of 1,000 plots.
has been secured and negotiations are proceeding for the acquisition The balance of 2,400 plots is held under contract, awaiting, in the of the land.
An additional 6,200 plots are allocated in either draft or vast majority of cases, the granting of a satisfactory planning consent.
The forward land with planning includes future major developments at Dunfermline, Fife 700 homes and Bracknell, However, it is the effectiveness of this land bank that is of primary Berkshire 750 homes.
Our forward land bank, the quality of which importance.
Redrow Homes owns with planning all the land required is clearly demonstrated by its planning pedigree and the annual to deliver the budgeted completions for the new financial year.
In contribution of development land, will continue to support our addition, virtually 100% of the currently anticipated legal financial returns in the future.
completions for the year ended June 2006 are on land owned or controlled by the Group.
This places Redrow Homes in an extremely Current Land Bank strong position to continue to deliver sustainable growth in the future.
17,400 During the financial year approximately 5,300 plots were acquired for 17,500 2,400 16,000 a total consideration of 179.1m, representing an average plot cost of 15,600 2,000 2,200 15,000 33,900.
This plot cost reflects an increasing trend due to the 14,300 13,500 3,000 rebalancing of the overall land bank in favour of the Western and 3,300 12,500 Southern Regions to support future growth.
To a large degree, this trend is matched by a corresponding increase in the average selling 10,000 price of the homes to be constructed on the land acquired.
At the financial year end, the average plot cost of the land bank had 7,500 increased from 22,900 to 27,300, which, when expressed as a 10,200 11,300 13,400 14,000 15,000 percentage of the average future sales revenue, represents an increase 5,000 from 14.8% last year to 16.1% for the current year.
At this level, our land bank remains one of the most cost effective in the industry.
2,500 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Land under contract Land owned with planning consent Aerial view of Peacock Farm, Bracknell, Berkshire 16 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Masterton Park, Dunfermline CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 17 MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT Redrows combination of residential and commercial development expertise continues to be an important component in the overall sourcing of future schemes.
The combination of residential and commercial development expertise continues to be an important component in the overall sourcing of future schemes.
The Governments focus on sustainable development, combined with major land opportunities created by the drive for efficiency within the U. K. s manufacturing base, has provided Redrow with a number of opportunities to utilise this mixed use expertise in tandem with our planning and project management capabilities.
The most significant example of this approach secured during the financial year is the 2,500 acre brownfield site at Bishopton near Glasgow.
Redrow has entered into a development agreement with BAE SYSTEMS to promote the site through the planning system with the potential to provide to the Group a 100 acre commercial and retail development, together with a residential scheme of Aerial view of Bishopton, near Glasgow approximately 1,500 homes.
At Buckshaw Village, near Chorley, Lancashire, significant progress has been made during the year.
Following the grant of a satisfactory planning permission, the 31 acre land sale to Aldi Stores Ltd, for a 650,000 sq.
ft. distribution warehouse, was completed.
ft. industrial unit on the initial speculative phase was sold to complement a land sale for the construction of a 110,000 sq.
Finally, as regards the commercial element, an agreement to lease has been entered into with Vernon Carus Ltd for a 100,000 sq.
ft. unit, with the resulting investment having already been pre-sold.
Both practical and legal completion should occur during the new financial year.
Residentially, following a highly successful sales launch twelve months ago, this multi-phased development has yielded approaching 100 legal completions during the financial year, with in excess of a further 50 forward sales.
ft. Vista office development at St Davids Park, Flintshire 18 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW At St. Davids Park, following the successful completion of Optima, the next phase of the office park, Vista, a 30,000 sq.
ft. office complex, is nearing practical completion.
The investment sale of Evolution, the nursery office unit scheme totalling approximately 15,000 sq.
ft. was financially completed in July 2003.
Outline planning permission has been secured for a further phase of residential development with the associated detailed consent for 75 homes currently being progressed.
Finally, at Stamford Park, Altrincham near Manchester, the construction of a 20,000 sq.
ft. office, representing the second phase of this commercial development, has recently been completed.
Aspect office development at The marketing launch is scheduled for the autumn to coincide with Stamford Park, Altrincham, near Manchester the completion of the major infrastructure works required to service the associated residential development of approximately 450 homes.
Buckshaw Village, near Chorley, Lancashire CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 19 THE CHALLENGES OF THE BARKER REPOR T The Redrow Training Centre will assist our staff in realising their career aspirations, help reduce staff turnover and promote Redrow as the employer of choice within our industry.
Kate Barker was commissioned by the Government to undertake a The industry should develop a strategy to address barriers to modern review of housing supply.
Her report represents one of the most methods of construction.
The formation three years ago of a dedicated authoritative reviews of our industry and the 36 recommendations research and development team has enabled the Group to both focus extend beyond the pure issues of land and planning.
Indeed, the on and evaluate various modern methods of construction.
report states that Easier access to land and a simplified planning In particular the team was instrumental in the formation and system should encourage housebuilders to focus their efforts on subsequent management of Framing Solutions, our joint venture meeting the needs of customers.
company formed to develop and manufacture light steel frames for use in the housebuilding industry.
The Barker Report identifies a number of key challenges of which three in particular are fundamental to the future performance of our Housebuilders must evaluate whether they are investing sufficiently in industry: their own workforce training as well as addressing the skills needed for modern methods of construction.
One of the milestones of the last The housebuilding industry must demonstrate increased levels of customer financial year was the launch of training@redrow, our in-house satisfaction.
During early 2003, Redrow undertook a detailed review training facility at Tamworth.
Our objective in establishing this of its business methods.
A substantial part of that review focused on facility was to provide a proper induction programme combined with our interaction with our customers and our ability, or otherwise, to access to high quality training for all our staff.
The Centre will assist satisfy them during what has become known as the customer our staff in realising their career aspirations, help reduce staff turnover journey.
As a result of the review, new customer service procedures and promote Redrow as the employer of choice within our industry.
were launched in July 2004, with management at all levels focused on During the last nine months, over 14,000 hours of staff training have the expectations of our customers.
been provided, equating to 2,600 filled places, with an average attendance of two training events per employee.
Further, training@redrow was instrumental in supporting the launch of the new customer service procedures.
The training@redrow team Delegates receiving training at the Redrow Training Centre 20 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW THE FUTURE Our focus is on the delivery of sustainable organic growth.
Our primary objective is to deliver value to our Shareholders.
To achieve this objective, Redrow must deliver sustainable and profitable growth.
As the housing market returns to more normal levels, both operating margins and future growth in selling prices will moderate.
As a result, although mindful of potential acquisition opportunities, our focus on the delivery of sustainable organic growth whilst maintaining operating margins and return on capital at the forefront of sector performance, will be of paramount importance.
Redrow has delivered growth in legal completions every year since 1990, arguably the peak of the last housing market cycle, an achievement unique amongst our peer group.
Furthermore, Redrow has entered the new financial year with a record forward sales position, a highly effective land bank to support future growth, together with a The Redrow Training Centre, Tamworth broad portfolio of homes and a focused customer service strategy to satisfy the requirements and aspirations of our customers.
Accordingly, barring the impact of factors totally outside the control of the Group, Redrow can look forward with confidence to maintaining its record of delivering long term sustainable growth and by so doing deliver value to our Shareholders.
Customers can select their Choices and Options from the range available at the Redrow Marketing Suite Paul L Pedley Chief Executive The Redrow Homebuyer Guide is presented to the customer at reservation stage and is part of Redrows new customer service procedures CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 21
