Chief Executives Review RESULTS ACQUISITIONS In 2004 Rentokil Initials turnover from continuing operations Nineteen bolt-on acquisitions were made in Hygiene, including franchisees and share of associates increased by Security and Tropical Plants in the UK, continental Europe, 0.4% to 2,435.3 million at reported exchange rates and by North America and Asia Pacific.
The total cash cost of the 2.0% to 2,473.7 million at constant 2003 average exchange nineteen acquisitions with aggregate annualised turnover rates.
Profit before tax and exceptional items decreased by of c. 19 million was 27.5 million, which contributed 14.1% to 350.8 million at constant 2003 average exchange turnover of 7.6 million, operating profit of 2.4 million rates.
Exchange differences of 3.6 million reduced this to a and profit before tax of 1.5 million during the year.
Profit after tax and exceptional iems was 297.8 million.
Adjusted earnings per share were down Since the year-end a further ten acquisitions have been made 13.2% to14.30p, with basic earnings per share down 25.0% at an aggregate cost of 22 million.
Operating cash flow was excellent at 231.8 million, representing 89% of reported, pre-exceptional, post-tax DISPOSALS profit of 260.3 million.
Performance by business stream As part of the South African governments black economic and geography is described on pages 7 to 11.
These refer empowerment BEE initiative and the companys own desire to continuing operations before exceptional items and are to further business development and customer retention in at constant 2003 average exchange rates in line with the that country, it has disposed of a 25.1% minority interest in its preliminary statement.
South African business to a consortium of local investors.
See page 16 of the Finance Directors Review for further details.
MANAGEMENT With the company having operations in more than 40 In addition to this disposal, two under-performing businesses countries, employees benefit from the companys philosophy within the North America Facilities Management activity and of developing the skills of management through experience the London based courier business within UK Parcels Delivery, in several different services.
Today this experience is a were sold in 2004. prerequisite for promotion to senior levels of management.
This philosophy has created an environment in which our GEOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS managers can be moved effectively between the companys Turnover 2,435.3m businesses around the world, broadening their skills and reinforcing the Rentokil Initial culture.
UK 49.9% Continental Europe 33.7% The company executive board comprises the chief executive, North America 10.9% finance director, the four sector managing directors, the group Asia Pacific & Africa 5.5% human resources director, the group acquisitions director and the company secretary.
Sector finance directors support each sector managing director and each business is run by a dedicated management team.
Central services are provided for Operating Profit 395.1m finance, legal, human resources, management development, corporate affairs, external and internal communications, UK 45.0% research and development, acquisitions and procurement.
Continental Europe 40.7% North America 3.2% Asia Pacific & Africa 11.1% continuing operations before exceptional items 6 Europe North America North America turnover increased by 2.5% to 291.4 million Asia Pacific and Africa whilst operating profit fell by 18.6% to 14.0 million.
Hygiene Austria Bahamas Services turnover fell by 0.8% to 6.0 million and Pest Control Australia Belgium Barbados turnover increased by 6.3% to 16.6 million.
Security turnover China Czech Republic Canada increased by 3.8% to 186.2 million, and total Facilities Fiji Denmark Guyana Management turnover fell by 1.0% to 82.6 million.
Hong Kong Finland Jamaica Indonesia France Martinique Asia Pacific and Africa increased turnover by 1.9% to Japan Germany Trinidad 137.3 million, although operating profit fell by 9.3% to Kenya Greece USA 43.9 million.
Malaysia Italy New Zealand The Netherlands Philippines BUSINESS STREAM ANALYSIS Norway Singapore Turnover 2,435.3m Portugal South Africa Republic of Ireland South Korea Hygiene 40.4% Slovakia Taiwan Security 23.6% Spain Tanzania Facilities Management 26.7% Sweden Thailand Parcels Delivery 9.3% Switzerland Zimbabwe United Kingdom Operating Profit 395.1m GEOGRAPHIC COMMENTARY UK turnover grew by 1.2% to 1,214.9 million with operating Hygiene 62.2% profit down by 19.0% to 177.8 million.
Hygiene Services Security 13.2% turnover fell by 3.1% to 176.3 million and Pest Control Facilities Management 16.7% had a turnover decrease of 0.8% to 69.4 million.
In Parcels Delivery 7.9% Security, turnover fell by 2.9% to 261.5 million, total Facilities Management turnover decreased by 1.7% to 484.1 million, and Parcels Delivery grew turnover by 9.7%, to 223.6 million.
continuing operations before exceptional items Continental Europe turnover was up by 3.0% at 830.1 million with operating profit declining by 4.9% to 162.8 million.
Hygiene Services turnover increased by 2.8% to 500.4 million and Pest Control turnover increased by 0.9% to 107.0 million.
Security turnover was up by 6.2% to 143.7 million, and total Facilities Management turnover increased by 0.9% to 79.0 million.
7 Chief Executives Review continued new management team continues to reorganise the washroom HYGIENE operations.
In addition, a dedicated team is engaged in Total Hygiene turnover grew by 1.3% to 995.4 million separating out the linen and garment activities, ahead of with operating profit down by 13.9% at 247.5 million.
the envisaged withdrawal from these parts of the business.
Preliminary discussions are underway with potential acquirers Hygiene Services turnover was up by 1.2% at 767.2 million, for all or parts of these activities.
Earlier guidance on possible with operating profit down by 16.1% to 170.0 million.
exit costs remains unchanged, as does the risk to 2005 trading Contract portfolio net gain was 16.1 million 2.2% with arising from the potential disruption associated with the 4.5 million of this coming from acquisitions.
reorganisation and phased exit processes.
In continental Europe turnover grew by 2.8% to 500.4 million Pest Control turnover at 228.2 million showed improved whilst operating profit slipped 3.7% to 109.5 million.
Turnover growth at 1.7% from that reported at the ten months, albeit and operating profit growth were encouraging in a number increased revenue investments and the sales mix of contracts of countries including Belgium, France, Portugal and Sweden.
to jobs resulted in an 8.6% reduction in operating profit to In Germany, the pressure on turnover, evident in the first half 77.5 million.
Contract portfolio net gain was 4.7 million -1.8%, intensified to leave the full year down by 4.2%, albeit 2.6% with 1.0 million of this coming from acquisitions.
the trend of operating profit regression of 23.7% at the half year to 27.7% for the full year was less severe.
Agreement has The UK business, where a new managing director has been reached with a purchaser and with the representatives of recently been appointed, had a turnover regression of the workforce, as required under German law, for the sale of 0.8% to 69.4 million, with operating profit falling by part of the German hospital linen activity to work towards 9.7% to 31.9 million.
eliminating losses in the order of 1.5 million p. a.
It is expected that completion of the sale will take place by June 2005.
Turnover in continental Europe at 107.0 million increased by 0.9%, with Belgium, Portugal, Spain, Finland and Greece In the small North American business, turnover fell by 0.8% each growing well.
Regressions in Denmark, Norway, Sweden to 6.0 million with the operating profit regression extending and Ireland were disappointing, although an improvement to 27.1%, to leave operating profit at 1.3 million.
in Germany, from a 1.9% regression at the half year to a flat position for the year as a whole, was encouraging.
Continental Asia Pacific and Africa turnover grew by 1.2% to 84.5 million, Europe operating profit regression of 8.2% to 33.8 million however, operating profit, impacted in part by increased reflected, in part, the above reasons but, once again, Germany revenue investments, fell by 10.3% to 29.5 million.
Malaysia, was encouraging with a regression of 5.0% in the first half South Africa, Philippines, Taiwan and Indonesia produced being pulled back to 2.5% for the full year.
good turnover growth, but a flat performance in the large Australian business and regressions in Singapore and In North America, turnover growth accelerated to 6.3% with Hong Kong were disappointing.
all the business units, in particular Canada, contributing to this performance.
Operating profit of 2.5 million on total UK Hygiene Services turnover fell by 3.1% to 176.3 million turnover of 16.6 million was some 1.9% lower than 2003. and operating profit dropped by 45.2% to 29.7 million.
The 8 Growth in Asia Pacific and Africa accelerated to 7.2% to produce turnover of 35.2 million.
Australia, Malaysia, New Zealand, South Africa, Indonesia and Philippines produced the best growth, although regressions in Hong Kong, Singapore and Thailand held back the overall level of growth.
Operating profit fell by 7.4% to 9.3 million despite an encouraging performance in Australia.
Continental Europe turnover at 143.7 million was up by 6.2%, approximately a half of this growth coming UK Pest Control won the prestigious Company of the Year from the Belgian electronic market entry acquisition made Award in 2004 from the Society of Food Hygiene Technology at the end of 2003.
France performed well, whilst Belgian and won its fifth consecutive Gold Award from the Royal manned guarding and the Dutch electronic business each Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Indonesia Pest produced growth broadly in line with inflation.
Despite the Control was awarded a major contract with Caltex Pacific modest profit contribution from the aforementioned Belgian Indonesia.
In Australia, washroom services secured major electronic acquisition, total operating profit fell by 1.9% to contracts with Woolworths, ANZ Bank and Commonwealth 13.0 million, the Belgian guarding and the French electronic Bank.
Initial Medical Services in the UK was awarded a Total businesses both regressing whilst the Dutch electronic business Waste Management contract by Sheffield Care Trust on behalf produced only flat profits.
of the four Sheffield Primary Care Trusts.
In The Netherlands, Initial Hokatex closed a major deal with Bakkersland NV for North America turnover and operating profit growth were the supply of workwear and another for washroom services broadly in line at 3.8% and 4.0% respectively to 186.2 million with Thialf Heerenveen, the world famous speed skating arena.
All three business units US manned guarding, US electronic and Canadian manned SECURITY guarding contributed to the growth in both turnover and profit.
Total Security turnover at 591.4 million was 1.3% up on 2003, albeit with operating profit falling by 8.9% to 53.0 million.
In the UK, turnover fell by 2.9% to 261.5 million, with a 7.3% fall in manned guarding in very difficult market conditions, Within the total, electronic security turnover grew by more than negating the 1.2% 1.7 million increase in 4.4% to 251.6 million, with operating profit 5.7% lower electronic, which benefited from four bolt-on acquisitions at 41.6 million.
Contract portfolio growth of 9.0 million contributing c. 3.5 million of turnover.
Operating profit at 11% came from a combination of organic growth 33.4 million was 13.3% down, with manned guarding where 3.5 million and acquisitions 5.5 million.
Manned guarding the managing director has recently been replaced being the saw turnover fall by 0.9% to 339.8 million and operating worst relative performance.
Electronic operating profit also profit by 18.6% to 11.4 million, although a pick-up in regressed due to a combination of increased sales and contract portfolio net gain towards the end of the year marketing investment, to address the underlying organic produced organic portfolio growth of 1.8 million decline in installation turnover, as well as development and 0.6% for 2004 as a whole.
reorganisation costs associated with the bolt-on acquisitions.
9 Chief Executives Review continued US Security, manned guarding, secured major to reductions of 3.5% and 38.0% respectively in the first half.
contracts with City of Dallas, Texas: City of Houston, Turnover ended the year at 111.5 million with operating profit Texas and with Lyondell-Equistar at 16 locations in of 12.5 million.
Contract portfolio net gain of 0.2 million Texas, Louisiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Iowa and Illinois.
benefited from 1.1 million of acquisitions.
Despite a turnover Initial Electronic Security Systems won major contracts growth of 5.3% to 12.8 million, operating profit in the UK in the UK with BT British Telecommunications, Thames fell by 51.3% to 2.0 million.
In continental Europe, turnover Water and BNG British Nuclear Group, worth in the and operating profit each fell by 4.4% to 28.0 million and region of 18 million.
4.1 million respectively, with encouraging performances in The Netherlands, Spain and Ireland being offset elsewhere, in FACILITIES MANAGEMENT particular Belgium, Norway and Germany.
A 0.3% turnover Total Facilities Management turnover grew by 1.2% regression for the full year in North America to 61.4 million to 659.2 million but the operating profit regression with a 34.0% fall in operating profit to 4.8 million, whilst very experienced at the half year escalated to 16.4% for the disappointing, were improvements over the first half where the year as a whole, leaving operating profit at 66.7 million.
Facilities Management Services grew turnover by 0.9% to Similar comments to North America also apply to Asia Pacific 456.6 million but very challenging market conditions were and Africa, turnover and operating profit falls of 2.7% and the principal cause of the operating profit slippage of 18.8% 29.7% respectively to 9.3 million and 1.6 million improving to 28.9 million.
Whilst contract portfolio was flat across from the 4.4% and 39.4% reductions reported for the first half.
the year as a whole, the underlying profitability of the exit portfolio of 380.2 million was lower than that of the Conferencing continued to improve the trends of turnover 380.1 million at the start of 2004 due to fierce competition growth and operating profit regressions, these ending the year on re-bids and new business wins.
In the UK which represents at 6.2% and 4.2% respectively to produce full year totals of 83% of turnover and 88% of operating profit, whilst 91.1 million and 25.3 million respectively.
Contract portfolio turnover increased by 0.6% to 380.2 million, operating net gain was 1.6 million 4.5%.
profit fell by some 19.3% to 25.5 million, with almost half of the 6.1 million regression coming from the core cleaning Initial Catering Services in the UK received extensions on operation.
Continental Europe cleaning turnover increased three state school meals contracts worth 13.4 million per by 4.0% to 51.0 million although pricing and cost year.
Tropical Plants in France was awarded a three year pressures caused operating profit to fall by 20.1% to contract for the eight terminals at Charles fide Gaulle Airport.
Notwithstanding two partial disposals, UK Tropical Plants won a Silver Gilt medal at The Chelsea the reduced scale North American operation continued Flower Show, a Gold Medal at the BBCs Gardeners World Live, to make a loss, this almost doubling to 1.2 million on a Silver Gilt Medal at Hampton Court Flower Show and no turnover 2.6% lower at 21.2 million.
Options to less than nine gold, silver and bronze awards from the eliminate these losses are being actively considered.
European Federation of Interior-Landscape Groups.
US Tropical In Asia Pacific and Africa, turnover and operating Plants won three awards of merit in the 2004 California profit increased by 0.3 million and 0.5 million Interior Plantscape Association awards and Tropical Plants to 4.2 million and 2.2 million respectively.
South Africa won a Gold medal in the Interior Plantscaping Association of South Africas excellence awards.
Rentokil Initial Tropical Plants continued the improving UK Cleaning was awarded major contracts with Barclays Bank in-year trend with turnover and operating and the Bank of Ireland and won the industrys Golden Service profit regressions slowing to 1.0% and 29.8% Award for Best Cleaned Premises by a Contract Cleaning respectively for the year as a whole compared Company for Manufacturing at Walkers Snack Foods.
10 IT Hygiene in the UK won one of their largest contracts ever I encouraged all managers to build up to and then maintain with Wincor Nixdorf, to clean and sanitize 2,900 ATM optimum levels of sales personnel, service engineers and machines for Barclays Bank and the Woolwich across the UK.
marketing managers to ensure that we could grow and retain Rentokil Initial UK Cleaning and Rentokil Initial Management more of our existing customer base and win more new Services, jointly with Initial Hospital Services, received Royal business.
Also, I targeted a zero tolerance approach to poor Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold Awards.
service standards to ensure that we provide the premium service that our customers have a right to expect.
PARCELS DELIVERY Parcels Delivery in the UK which represented 98% of total The culture was changed to one of devolved responsibility turnover of 227.7 million and 96% of total operating profit and empowerment so that the company could become more of 31.3 million grew turnover by 9.7%, albeit mix and certain nimble.
I dismantled the time consuming and bureaucratic revenue investment costs held back operating profit growth review process in order to devolve responsibility back where to 2.0%, which was, however, an improvement compared to it should be in the businesses and down the line all the both the first half and the ten months.
way to the 1,000 branch managers around the world.
Initial City Link retained over 95% of its customers during In order to improve internal communications, video 2004.
This excellent performance is due in part to the conferencing facilities were installed in our major businesses continued investment in and development of its advanced worldwide.
I also started to distribute video messages by email technology for tracking the position of packages at any time to all our managers and their staff around the world, which in the collection and delivery process.
Not only does this was totally new for the company.
A simple feedback mechanism create customer confidence as information is available to was included that allows anyone in Rentokil Initial to send to them continuously, but also drives improved internal controls me a comment on the videos or just their ideas on making their and efficiencies.
A recent survey of those seeing these videos has been overwhelmingly positive, as the company appears OPERATIONAL REVIEW more open, informative and willing to listen vital in a people From May 2004 I undertook an operational review of the company like ours - and I am encouraging the sector managing company lasting some three months.
I found much that was directors also to use these techniques.
As expected, I found tight cost controls and effective financial reporting structures, but As far as acquisitions are concerned, Mark Boyle joined as group refreshingly I found an encouraging attitude in the employees acquisitions director in January of this year to accelerate the I met.
They had some great ideas, were full of enthusiasm and pace of bolt-on acquisitions within our core businesses.
Last hungry for success for themselves and their businesses.
But year we made 19, albeit small, acquisitions and a further ten along with that I sensed frustration and irritation with some in the first three months of this year.
The latest significant of the procedures within the company.
acquisition has been the 14 million purchase of a leading Austrian textile services company, Textilservice Pointner.
This I realised that much of that frustration was born of serious is an important entry into that market for us and provides a under-investment in many of the businesses for a number platform for subsequent in-fill acquisitions.
At the conclusion of my review I identified key areas for change, which I firmly believe will be the drivers to We needed to find the best ways to effectively reward and reinvigorate and move the company forward.
motivate our employees, which falls into the human resources area.
Jeanette Cowley was appointed group human resources 11 Chief Executives Review continued director during the second half of 2004 and she has since In the Hygiene market, our technology sourcing activities appointed two senior managers to spearhead remuneration identified a novel treatment in the US which confers and career development within the group.
They have started anti-microbial properties to fabrics.
The biocide in the fabric to tackle the whole area of rewarding, developing and kills bacteria rapidly and has shown to be effective against motivating our 90,000 staff, moving towards a consistent MRSA.
We have also developed a hand hygiene management approach for all businesses.
system based on a sensor that can identify if an individual has correctly used a residual sanitizer on their hands.
This Investment in and development of our IT systems was increased sensor can be built into handles, push-plates and check and encouraged.
We have a number of exciting, customer points that give a pass or fail signal when touched.
This focused IT projects underway.
UK security has implemented a project is currently in development with field trials in NHS package of initiatives including a new project control system, hospitals and food factories.
enhanced mobile communications, rewriting of the alarm receiving centre software and the launch of a new extranet That concludes my review of operations and with Doug site for a major client, BT British Telecommunications.
In Flynn now in place as chief executive, it will be his continental Europe, our French security business will launch responsibility to report on 2005 in a years time.
a version of the remote access monitoring system, giving customers total access to their data by way of a secure internet connection.
In Belgium our security business is marketing a new visitor management software system that will provide the technology to manage all visitors identification, badge issue and access monitoring upon entering the building.
There are major developments too, internationally, in Pest Control, Brian McGowan Washroom Services and US Security where we have developed Executive Chairman and installed new programmes providing customers with service 13th April 2005 status information via secure internet access.
Rentokil Initial has always been strong in research and new product development, but these have not been fully commercially exploited in the past.
Pestconnect, launched in January in the UK, uses radio communication from detectors to tell our staff if pests are active in a customers premises.
They will know minute-byminute the pest status at a customers site and can respond rapidly, the customer also accessing the same information through a secure website.
Facecheck was launched last autumn by our security business in The Netherlands and is a system for identifying low-grade criminal targets, particularly shoplifters.
A video camera captures the face of a person entering the shop and compares it to a database of known offenders and, if there is a match, the shop security staff are alerted.
