Chief executives report We saw very strong demand across our product range in 2004.
This momentum is expected to continue into 2005 though it may be affected by the uncertainties of the US economy and the rate of growth in China.
Good market conditions enable us to increase focus on capital management.
Our record cash flow gives us considerable options for further organic growth based on our large reserve and resource position.
Operating performance Product group earnings, excluding exceptional items, were a record US$2,544 million, compared with US$1,584 million in 2003.
Higher metal and mineral prices and greater output from new projects were the main reasons for the strong result.
Improved prices, mainly for copper, aluminium, iron ore and coal, combined with additional output from new or expanded projects such as Diavik in Canada diamonds, Eastern Range, West Angelas and Hail Creek in Australia iron ore and coking coal, and Escondida in Chile copper.
The depreciation of the US dollar against most major currencies had an effect on earnings, as did higher operating costs.
While the mining industry benefits from higher prices received for the commodities we produce, as a business we also incur higher prices for consumables used in our operations.
To address cost factors more rigorously, we are evolving our business processes to take advantage of Rio Tintos scale and to share leading practices around the Group as key levers to creating Our record cash flow value.
We have been successful in applying these principles in our information technology, procurement and shipping activities.
We are gives us considerable options working to extend greater capability and sharing of expertise to mining and processing operations, asset management and marketing, to maximise value on several fronts.
for further organic growth In 2004 I announced a major reallocation of product group responsibilities.
With the retirement of David Klingner as head of based on our large reserve Exploration and Chris Renwick as chief executive, Iron Ore, Tom Albanese moved to Copper and Exploration, Sam Walsh to Iron Ore, and resource position Oscar Groeneveld to Aluminium, and Andrew Mackenzie was recruited to be chief executive Industrial Minerals.
Preston Chiaro and Keith Johnson continue as chief executives of Energy and Diamonds respectively.
Both David Klingner and Chris Renwick spent most of their working lives with Rio Tinto, each with 35 years service, making very valuable contributions in several areas of the business.
Strategy Earlier this year the board discussed Rio Tintos strategic direction to provide a framework for our medium term decisions.
The discussion reaffirmed our focus on mining operations to produce minerals and metals.
Furthermore, we recognised that medium term growth will be biased towards growth from within the development of brownfield and greenfield projects inherent in our existing assets.
The Group has long maintained a commitment to exploration.
I believe this is an increasingly important source of competitive advantage.
The Groups diversity and strength, particularly in Australia and North America, enable us to increase our involvement in less familiar territories of the world should opportunities present themselves.
The centre of gravity of our operations has been firmly in the OECD countries where historically we have found the most opportunities.
This need not always be the case.
The generation of options globally is an important pathway to growth and we possess the technical, community and environmental management capabilities to do so.
Also, a key building block will remain our ability to bring well thought out projects to fruition on time without compromising their performance.
Rio Tinto 2004 Annual report and financial statements 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Chief executives report continued A more competitive mining industry is developing and Rio Tinto commitment to exploration.
needs to improve faster to keep ahead.
Our fundamental strategy Over the past year we have transferred five projects from will not change as it has stood the test of time, but we contemplate exploration to the product groups where the necessary skills can be some changes in emphasis.
We will continue to focus on large, long applied to take them through to the next level of evaluation.
These life, low cost operations and run them efficiently.
Our growth will projects in copper, iron ore, nickel, gold and potash emphasise largely come from our existing operations and reserves, the continuity of our growth potential for the medium term.
supplemented by opportunistic mergers, acquisitions, structures With a strong market, the outlook for our iron ore businesses and alliances, where these make sense.
The expansion of capacity in Western Australia at While historically the decentralised model of Rio Tinto has a cost of US$1,300 million is the single largest project investment delivered enormous benefits, to keep improving we are putting we have made in many years.
The major elements of the greater emphasis on Rio Tintos global scale and specialist skills.
We programme are on track for completion by the end of 2005 with the need to continue to improve how we operate, recognising that result that Rio Tinto expects to have a managed capacity of over operational excellence and commercial acumen go hand in hand.
170 million tonnes of iron ore per year.
The expansion is part of a major capital expenditure International reporting programme in Western Australia that also includes the US$200 Our financial statements for 2005 onwards will be prepared in million HIsmelt iron making plant that will be commissioned early in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
2005 after more than 20 years of research and development.
The We welcome the adoption of a single accounting convention by so Comalco Alumina Refinery in Australia was successfully many countries around the world.
The expected implications for commissioned in the fourth quarter of 2004 and made its first Rio Tinto are set out on page 144.
We will make available our 2004 shipment to China ahead of schedule.
financial results under IFRS in early May.
The Hail Creek coking coal mine reached its capacity of Rio Tinto is a foreign issuer in the US and so we are obliged to 5.5 million tonnes per annum in 2004 well ahead of our original comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, in particular section expectations.
An expansion of capacity to eight million tonnes is 404.
This means that our 2005 20-F report will include a statement already under way for completion by 2006.
This is an excellent on the effectiveness of internal financial controls which will be example of how our focus on assets with large reserves gives us attested to and reported on by our auditors.
We have put in place a options to expand in line with demand.
It is a large, high quality comprehensive compliance programme.
We have embarked on a resource with reserves of nearly 200 million tonnes.
Hail Creek also major re-evaluation of our significant internal controls to ensure that illustrates the value of patience and thoroughness: it was under they are fully documented.
As a result, Rio Tinto is well positioned to study on and off for 30 years.
be compliant by the end of 2005.
The success of the Diavik diamond project in Canada, where overall performance has comfortably exceeded expectations, New projects prompted us to bring forward development of a second orebody to Over 2005 and 2006, we plan to spend up to US$6 billion on new help sustain the advantages that have been created.
We have many potential investment options including will necessitate construction of a second dike.
Mining of the second opportunities in alumina, coal, iron ore, industrial minerals, diamonds orebody is scheduled to begin in early 2008.
A study is also under and copper.
Most of these relate to the large, long life assets we way into the viability of underground mining, including the already own.
We believe these provide our primary route to value construction of an exploration decline.
growth and should represent the priority use of shareholders funds.
During 2004, we continued to pursue opportunities for asset We have recently completed three development projects.
disposals in a patient and disciplined manner.
We sold our Currently we have ten under way, and three more were approved shareholding in Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, receiving net late in 2004.
In addition, we have development studies progressing proceeds of US$882 million while retaining our joint venture interest on 15 more projects.
Our level of success reflects efforts we have in production from the Grasberg mine.
We locked in further value made over a number of years and is a tangible result of our with the sale of the Zinkgruvan zinc mine in Sweden, and our Adjusted earnings Net earnings Cash flow from Margins US$m US$m operations US$m 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 00 01 02 03 04 Net earnings in 2001, 2002, Dividends from earnings before interest, associates and 2003 and 2004 include tax and exceptional items joint ventures exceptional items.
the Morro do Ouro gold mine in Brazil.
We restructured our interest We responded to the Asian tsunami disaster by committing in Rio Tinto Zimbabwe to focus on the Murowa diamond project in A$1 million about US$750,000 to the relief effort in countries where that country.
The funds will be donated through appropriate international agencies in Indonesia and India where we can leverage Safety, health, environment and communities our local knowledge most effectively.
There was a marked improvement in our safety record in 2004 even though there is considerable work still to be done to reach Outlook Rio Tintos goal of zero injuries and illnesses.
The world economy is slowing to a more sustainable pace after I am sorry to report that there was one fatal accident at a growth accelerated sharply in 2004.
If the slowdown is well managed operation.
While this compares with six deaths at managed, particularly in the US and China, which have been the key operations in 2003, it remains wholly unacceptable that anyone drivers for growth in recent years, it will be a welcome development should be fatally injured at work.
There were also a number of near for commodity markets.
These are already severely stretched to misses.
We will redouble our efforts to increase visible leadership meet demand.
Developments in the foreign exchange markets from all levels of management and emphasise the role of employees remain a key economic uncertainty.
themselves in developing safe work habits.
There were 371 lost time Rio Tinto is benefiting from a very strong business environment incidents during the year, a 21 per cent decrease from 2003.
The as developing countries ramp up their demand for metals and lost time frequency rate was 0.65 compared with 0.82 in 2003. minerals and mature economies enjoy relatively solid economic The 2004 winners of the Chief Executives Safety Award were growth.
While this outlook is encouraging for the short and medium Rio Tinto Brasils Morro do Ouro gold mine for the second term, there remain fundamental uncertainties on the world stage.
consecutive year, Quebec Metal Powders in Canada, and Rio Tinto Among them are the direction the US economy will take, the rate of Exploration Australasia, which was commended for its performance growth in China and the sustainability of growth in Asia as a whole.
The awards improve recognition of good performance Our record financial performance under strong market based on Rio Tinto's safety targets and programmes.
conditions in 2004 enabled us to focus on capital management to We continued to improve our understanding of the achieve a balance between future investment and rewards for environmental implications of our activities regarding biodiversity, shareholders.
We have many options for investing in our future climate change, water and energy use, waste disposal and use of growth, with a strong suite of opportunities in the project pipeline.
There was no change in the number of significant As always we will apply our rigorous capital appraisal processes.
There was, The world in which we operate is always changing and we are however, a decrease, from eight to four, in the number of anticipating and reacting to those changes in order to remain significant spills.
Barring the uncertainties I mentioned, the near term At Energy Resources of Australia ERA environmental incidents looks encouraging.
Whatever the economic conditions, Rio Tinto occurred that were unacceptable and which marred an otherwise has the assets and the people to maximise shareholder value in a commendable performance.
Numerous changes to systems have sustainable way.
been made and increased resources applied so that such In conclusion, I thank my management team and our valued shortcomings are not repeated.
Three subsequent Australian employees all over the world for their continued support during 2004.
Government audits were satisfactorily completed.
To improve consistency and to share good practices, we developed standards and guidance to help our businesses to work more closely with people neighbouring our operations.
They aim to arrive at an understanding of what we can do for mutual benefit and then to secure implementation of agreed objectives.
We support over 2,000 socio-economic programmes covering health care, Leigh Clifford Chief executive Product group Net debt: total earnings capital US$m % Adjusted earnings excludes the effect of exceptional items of such magnitude that their exclusion is necessary in order that adjusted earnings fulfil their purpose of reflecting the Groups underlying performance.
A reconciliation to net earnings can be found on page 86.
Note: Product group earnings are stated before exceptional items, net interest, exploration and evaluation costs and other central items.
A reconciliation is shown on page 138.
