4 SABMiller plc CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Well positioned to keep growing Now that were established in the top tier of international brewers, we aim to achieve sustainable growth in earnings by building on our existing operations, restoring Miller in the US, strengthening our positions in China and India and widening the reach of our premium brands.
SABMiller plc 5 In a year of excellent results, our strong Established operations in significant source of volume growth growth in reported earnings is due to growth markets and were investing further in our Kaluga three main factors.
Firstly, weve seen South Africa has had an exceptionally brewery to meet demand.
Pleasingly, our sound operational performances from successful year.
Behind the growth we Czech business saw further increases in each of our businesses around the see some recovery in the market share both volumes and prices.
Secondly, while theres still much of beer as against wine and spirits plus growth in Hungary outstripped the to be done, our turnaround programme the trickle-down effect of an improving market and we are in the process at Miller is starting to deliver results, with consumer economy.
We also see good of acquiring the Aurora brewery in particular momentum behind the Miller performances from our two international Romania to strengthen our number Lite brand.
Thirdly, weve benefited premium brands introduced last year two position there.
from currency movements, mainly the Miller Genuine Draft and Pilsner Urquell Four of the countries in which we strengthening of the rand which has and from efforts to make soft drinks operate joined the EU on 1 May 2004. enhanced the strong organic growth more affordable by offering smaller, The consequent restructuring may be and operational improvements of our returnable containers.
In both beer disruptive in the short term, but we South African businesses.
and soft drinks, the past year has reshould see future benefits in the All these factors have contributed established the long-term upward trend respective consumer economies.
to the years excellent figures.
Total in sales and shown that South Africa is In Central America, weve beverage volumes were up 15% at capable of further organic growth.
concentrated on improving our brand 173.9 million hectolitres with lager sales Our wider Africa portfolio produced portfolios along with sharper market rising 19% to 137.8 million hectolitres.
its usual share of ups and downs but a focus and greater operational efficiency.
Further details of our performance strong result overall.
We benefited from Earnings have risen as a result.
are in the review of operations on the earlier restructuring in Kenya and pages 10 to 21.
Tanzania and saw strong progress from Turnarounds at Miller and Peroni Angola where the economy is recovering When we bought Miller in July 2002, Our strategy for growth after the long civil war.
The end of the it had suffered from a long period of The chairman has described how year brought new acquisitions in Algeria decline and many commentators were we have built SABMiller into a strong, and Morocco through our joint venture sceptical that we would be able to fix the international operator capable of further with Castel, which itself performed second largest brewer in the US.
We growth in earnings both now and into very well.
recognised it would take time, but drew the future.
Our businesses in Europe produced confidence from our record of successful We see this growth occurring over excellent results.
In Poland, the growth turnarounds in other parts of the world.
which previously swelled the mainstream Weve now completed the analysis and In the near term, we look mainly to market is switching to the premium and restructuring phase and are in the our strong, established operations in economy sectors and our own portfolio process of implementing our three-year South Africa, the rest of Africa, Europe is changing in response.
The first green shoots of recovery and, slightly further ahead, Central meanwhile, has taken over as a are starting to show.
These are markets with many years of organic growth still ahead of them.
In the medium term, additional This years growth is due to three main factors.
growth will come from turning round the recent big acquisitions, Miller and Peroni, First, weve seen sound operational performances which we know have the potential to produce strong, sustainable profits.
from each of our businesses.
Secondly, our For the longer term, we are building on our positions in the large, emerging turnaround programme at Miller is starting to markets of China and India, both of which deliver results.
And thirdly, weve benefited from are capable of generating much greater value.
Depending on economic growth, the strength of the rand.
there may also be opportunities in Africa.
In the longer term we also expect to see a natural consumer drift towards higher value, international brands.
Our global platform will give us the ability to distribute and develop our own portfolio of international premium beers, so securing a further source of earnings.
We believe this pattern of growth differentiates SABMiller from all its competitors.
It also provides a framework for reporting our progress in the past year.
6 SABMiller plc elements of the culture we intend to create.
Chief Weve tackled the problems at Miller in the only way we know by analysing executives the problem, asking the right questions, applying our knowledge of the beer business and building capability.
review The result is a stronger, more focused business.
Miller Lite is leading the recovery and in the coming months, Weve tackled the problems at Miller in the The plan has four areas of focus: brands, only way we know by sales and distribution, costs and analysing the problem, productivity and organisational capability.
Each is important and our eventual asking the right success will depend on all these elements working together.
questions, applying our Within the brands, a huge amount of knowledge of the beer research was conducted into what the Miller brands stood for and what they business and building could be made to stand for.
This led to a repositioning and advertising messages capability.
The result initially focused on the Miller name itself and then on Miller Lite.
The Atkinsis a stronger, more inspired low-carbohydrate trend has focused business.
put a fair wind behind Miller Lite and were using this, while it lasts, to build momentum.
We are now turning our attention to Miller Genuine Draft and well be looking for positive signs in the the rest of the portfolio.
rest of the brand portfolio.
Within distribution, our success The Miller acquisition was followed Top: Norman Adami, president and chief depends on good execution in the in May 2003 by our purchase of Peroni executive, Miller Brewing Company and Graham Mackay, chief executive, SABMiller millions of transactions that have to in Italy.
Integration of the business into plc, tour Milwaukee Brewery, USA: Middle: take place every week.
Again weve SABMiller is at much the same point that Our leading Polish brand Tyskie sells more done a lot of analysis, segmenting and Miller was a year ago, although Peronis than any other of our brands in Europe: prioritising the US market by channel key brands were always in better shape.
Bottom: Castle Lager deliveries in Cape Town, South Africa.
and by geography and then aligning The analysis stage is almost complete, all marketing and sales activities but implementation still lies ahead.
Weve had great support were confident of generating value, will lead to better prices and that a from our wholesalers who are now particularly as the Italian market grows growing beer culture will further our working with us in each of these areas and consolidates.
aim of building Snow into a strong to implement local market plans.
process will be rolled out countrywide Large, emerging markets While we purchased a 29% interest over the next 18 months.
Were currently one of the leading in Harbin Brewery earlier in the year, we For better costs and productivity, international brewers in the worlds have recently announced our intention to weve reorganised Millers head office, largest beer market, China.
Our joint dispose of this interest at a substantial re-aligned its management structures venture, China Resources Breweries, has profit.
We are selling into an offer being and closed the Tumwater brewery to a 10% share of the Chinese beer market made for the shares of Harbin at a price improve capacity utilisation.
and a record of being one of the most that we believe more than fully values the The last of our four areas of focus is profitable.
Having grown organically potential of the company.
organisational capability where we aim and through acquisitions, it now has 32 In India, weve consolidated our to instil a new performance culture.
breweries and a strong regional presence position through the Shaw Wallace joint Again its going to take time, but the in second tier regions and cities.
venture which we are in the process of Miller team has made exceptional strides The Chinese beer market is still at completing.
Through the joint venture in clarifying accountabilities, investing an early stage of development.
However, we will have breweries in several states in new skills and putting in place the were confident that consolidation across India and a 33% market share, SABMiller plc 7 which will make us the number two Our success will depend on knowing how to player in the country.
Its a good base, but we still have much to do in terms run a beer business better than our competitors of improving the product, developing and extracting maximum value from the assets our brands and introducing modern manufacturing and marketing.
India is a highly regulated market with ingrained ways of operating, but theres no doubt it offers huge potential for growth.
Its also possible that a period of political stability and economic growth could provide opportunities in Africa 17% of world beer sales, however that which are not visible today.
figure has risen to 40% today and is forecast to top 50% in five years time.
International premium brands We believe that the first phase of The final contributor to growth is consolidation, where larger established exploiting the potential of our players buy underperforming local international premium brands.
The assets, is now over and that we are well premium sector is growing faster than into the second phase of consolidation, the total beer market and accounts for largely defined by mergers of relative a disproportionate share of its profits.
equals: a phase that arguably began We therefore see good opportunities for with the Miller transaction.
brands such as Miller Genuine Draft, Today we are established in the Pilsner Urquell, Nastro Azzurro and worlds top tier and believe that we have Castle.
Our approach is to refine and the scale and the efficiencies we need to develop our local brand portfolios and keep growing organically.
If other valueenhance them with our international adding opportunities come along, we will brands where appropriate.
Miller Genuine of course consider their merits but we Draft, for example, is already doing well dont need another landscape-changing in Russia and South Africa and is likely merger or acquisition.
Our focus, now, to be suited to Chinese tastes.
will be on raising the performance of our existing businesses.
The global marketplace Quite simply, our success will Over the last 12 months there has been depend on knowing how to run a beer further restructuring in the global beer business better than our competitors industry.
Only 15 years ago, the worlds and extracting maximum value from five largest brewers accounted for about the assets now in place.
The groups beer businesses around the world are already some of the most efficient and we intend to turn our best local practices The premium sector into common global practices.
is growing faster Prospects We are well positioned by virtue of than the total beer our geographic reach and balance, the quality of our businesses and our market and accounts financial strength to continue to deliver for a disproportionate value to shareholders.
The 2004 results reflect strong performances across the share of its profits.
group and, for the coming year, we believe were in a good position to We therefore see good continue to generate growth in earnings.
opportunities for brands such as Miller Genuine Draft, Pilsner Urquell, Nastro Azzurro Graham Mackay and Castle.
