4 Chief Executives Review I am pleased to report another year of good In our established markets such as the UK, We have continued to expand our range of progress in a challenging market.
Our CRM applications as well as tools for Mainland Europe and North America, much achievements this year have resulted in a of the growth in the software sector is being reporting, analytics and forecasting.
29% increase in turnover and 1.2 million driven by SMEs extending business process Our portfolio of CRM products ACT!, new customers joining us during the period.
We are meeting SMEs ACCPAC CRM and SalesLogix allows our We have successfully integrated three changing needs by offering complementary customers to select the most appropriate acquisitions during the period and significantly products for sales and customer service, solution based on their type of business, increased their operating margins.
On an industry-specific production processes and how they manage customer relationships organic basis, turnover grew 6%.
and whether they wish to access their In emerging markets such as Africa and software via internet or on the desktop.
Business Philosophy Asia, growth is being driven by small Sage provides accounting and business Services development businesses computerising their business management software and related services We have introduced new service offerings processes for the first time.
Our model of to the small and medium-sized business for those 1.3 million businesses that expanding by acquiring a leading local community worldwide.
Our mission is to subscribe to our customer support services.
player in accounting or payroll software automate business processes in order to Our premium support services are used by allows us to choose the ideal time to enter help the customers we serve run their Paul Walker, Chief Executive 265,000 of our customers and provide these markets and ensures that Sage businesses more efficiently, helping them We have benefited this year from small and increasing levels of assistance with solutions meet the unique needs of these to gain greater insight into their business medium-sized businesses becoming more regulatory compliance, management local businesses.
activities and providing them with real and active in the IT market, as well as a boost in reporting and information technology lasting benefits.
revenues from software support contracts We add value to new acquisitions by bringing issues.
Support revenues grew 11% and three major acquisitions.
operational excellence to their local initiatives With the benefit of local understanding and organically in the year.
and helping them to introduce models to insight, we provide software and services manage their customer service and support Reseller channel that are relevant, practical and useful for related activities more effectively.
These are Over 900,000 of our customers have more the demands of todays SME business strategies that have been proven to deliver than 25 employees.
Handling on average 29,000 Five year support contract growth growth in our established markets over the still using small business software and customers calls a day allows us to have a Support contract growth past decade.
have the potential to migrate to a more profound understanding of their needs.
Together 0.75m 1.00m 1.25m 1.50m We offer outstanding customer service and Customer growth with our 21,000 reseller partners and our customer-centric approach is designed Our product range closely reflects the supported by over 40,000 accountants, we to engender customer loyalty, whilst at the business requirements of SMEs and therefore addressed this demand by helping 70,000 2004 same time setting us apart from our we continue to attract large numbers of new of our customers migrate in the year to new competition.
The quality of our products customers.
During the year, our businesses products.
Our improved growth in 2004 and service encourages recommendation attracted 269,000 new customers and our 2003 was largely due to higher revenues in our by our customers, as well as by over acquisitions brought a further 903,000 channel-based mid-market businesses.
customers, increasing the customer base We have continued to enhance our 2002 to 4.4 million 2003: 3.2 million.
Our devolved organisation strategy is based relationships with our reseller partners on nurturing the entrepreneurship, innovation and have been more proactive in facilitating Software development and team spirit of our people, allowing us to 2001 We have continued to strengthen our their own marketing and sales strategies.
leverage the power of local expertise.
Our We continue to provide quality leads from product portfolio.
Over 29% of software local focus allows us to develop compelling revenue 2003: 26% was re-invested in within our own customer base to support 2000 products tailored to the local market, which their activities.
the year in order to develop either new or differentiate us from our competition.
upgraded solutions for our customers.
Operational Review The mid-market portfolio was enhanced by Germany and Switzerland demonstrated the release of a new product, Mid Market strong bottom-line performance, showing UK and Ireland Solution MMS.
This product has been 16% organic growth in operating profit.
UK revenues were 185.7m 2003: developed in order to allow rapid and easy 170.2m and represented 27% of Group Previous acquisitions, Coala 2001 and upgrades in the future.
It has been well revenues.
Organic revenue growth was 8%, Gandke & Schubert 2002 showed received by our reseller partners, not only improving from 7% in the first half of the increased contributions from their serviceas an upgrade option, but also as a solution year to 10% in the second half.
for small business customers seeking to programme of regular upgrades to our move to a more sophisticated solution.
A key acquisition in Spain, SP, contributed principal accounting and payroll products, Two complementary products were also revenue of 23.9m.
This reflects a strong together with the introduction of new released: ACT!
Professional for advanced UK: Visions reseller partner event contribution from support revenues.
An accounting and complementary products, During the year reseller partner management was sales contact management and Financial operating margin of 23% was achieved resulted in strong software revenue growth.
simplified and communication made clearer.
Forecasting for cash flow modelling.
through the profitability of the support The UK operating margin remained at 39%.
business and with the benefit of a Overall, CRM revenues increased 13% year on Whilst the programme of investment in new rationalisation of product development.
year and now represent 6% of UK revenues.
products and services continued, profitability was sustained by high margin sales to existing Mainland Europe customers and effective cost management.
Revenues in Mainland Europe were 170.3m Organic operating profit grew 9%.
2003: 139.6m, representing 25% of The four Newcastle-based operations Group turnover.
Organic revenue growth was moved to a single, purpose-built facility 5%, improving from 3% in the first half of as part of a 70m investment.
the year to 7% in the second half.
Support revenue growth was underpinned The operating margin rose to 24% 2003: by improved customer service and retention.
This resulted from the focus on Customers took up additional support high-margin sales to existing customers UK: Mid Market Solution contracts, either wanting to use their and effective cost management.
Organic Launched in November 2003, Mid Market Solution software more effectively, or to comply with operating profit grew 20%.
contributed to improved UK mid-market revenues.
new regulations such as government webRevenue growth was based principally on based payroll filing.
The quality of customer strong progress in initiatives to help service in the UK was recognised by the customers migrate to more sophisticated 2004 European Call Centre Award for Best software and support.
migrated to higher-end products and The consolidation of a number of midservices.
Additionally, new revenue sources market activities into one organisation has were established by a number of innovative helped to strengthen channel confidence.
new software and service offerings.
These Our revenues from the UK mid-market ranged from simple invoicing solutions business were substantially improved, for newly-formed SMEs to integrated showing 15% growth compared to the accounting, payroll and verticals for prior year.
Foreign currency results for the prior year have been retranslated at current year exchange rates to facilitate comparison of certain of the results.
France: added value support Premium support contracts in France include Optima, Proxima and Maxima.
1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 5 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report 6 Chief Executives Review continued North America Revenues for the Mid-market Division were Africa, Australia and Asia North American revenues were 287.0m 201.1m 2003: 138.8m including These regions contributed revenues of 2003: 221.3m and now represent 42% acquisitions.
Core accounting revenues the 44.6m 2003: 2.1m at an operating of Group revenues.
Organic revenue growth MAS range and related products grew 5% margin of 26% 2003: 33%.
was 5%, improving from 3% in the first organically.
This divisions CRM revenues The South African and Australian half of the year to 7% in the second half.
were affected by the delay in shipment of businesses of Softline, aquired in November the SalesLogix upgrade.
SalesLogix The operating margin reduced to 22% 2003, together contributed revenues of revenues declined 12% for the full year, but 2003: 25% as a result of the initial dilutive 34.9m.
The operating margin at 24% US: Launch of ACT!
2005 showed improvement in the second half of effect of acquisitions.
Excluding acquisitions, reflected the focus placed by these A significantly enhanced version of ACT!
was the year compared to the first half.
Organic businesses on growing support penetration launched at New Yorks Times Square in August 2004. operating profit grew 5%.
Two major acquisitions in the region made and on selling complementary products significant contributions.
ACCPAC such as payroll to their customer bases.
Our North American business has two contributed revenues in North America of divisions: one dedicated to small ACCPAC contributed revenues of 7.8m at 24.7m at an operating margin of 11%.
businesses and one addressing mid-market an operating margin of 32%.
The principal Timberline acquired late in 2003 businesses.
Revenues for the Small contribution was from its market leading contributed revenues of 33.8m at an Business Division were 85.9m 2003: business in South-East Asia.
Key products in this business are showed improvement in margins compared Peachtree accounting and ACT!
and customer management software, which both grew revenues by 9%.
In November 2004, we acquired Federal Liaison Services, Inc. FLS, for an Industry-specific versions of the Peachtree enterprise value of 9.7 million.
FLSs Accounting product were introduced for technology will enhance our payroll service manufacturers, distributors and accountants.
by automating the payment and reporting of These provided migration opportunities for US: Peachtree verticals tax obligations.
Peachtree Premium Accounting launched in November 2003 Our Timberline customer support centre introduced industry-specific features for the first time.
contact and customer was acclaimed in the 2004 Global Call management product family was enhanced Centre of the Year Awards for its overall with the most expansive architecture and commitment to improving customer service features improvements in the products and consistent performance in the delivery 17-year history.
US: Timberline Provides solutions for the construction and real estate industries in North America.
Acquisitions SP ACCPAC We completed three important acquisitions SP was acquired in October 2003 and is ACCPAC was acquired in March 2004 and is during the year and one at the end of the the market leader in the SME market in a leading vendor of accounting and CRM previous year.
This business has benefited from solutions.
This acquisition has strengthened we added 903,000 new customers to the sharing best practice with our other our market position in the US and has Group.
During the year, significant progress European businesses in customer support established a significant presence for the first was made in integrating and developing and product development, the latter time in Canada and South-East Asia.
In its each of these businesses.
resulting in the launch of a new product for first six months, ACCPAC contributed the mid-market.
In its first 11 months in the revenue of 34.2m, and operating profit of Timberline Group, SP contributed revenue of 23.9m 4.1m.
ACCPACs CRM product expands The 2004 financial year showed the first and an operating profit of 5.4m.
our portfolio of CRM solutions for our material contribution from Timberline, which customer base.
Softline Softline Softline was acquired in November 2003 Timberline provides solutions dedicated to Leader in the small business market in South Africa, with Paul Walker and is the market leader in the SME market the needs of North American SMEs in the its Pastel product and the payroll market in Australia.
Chief Executive in South Africa, as well as being market Acquired in November 2003. construction and real estate industries.
By leader in the specialist payroll and combining Timberlines leading product and accountants markets in Australia.
Since its reseller partner community with our acquisition, Softlines businesses have customer base marketing skills, we have focussed on opportunities to offer more begun to address migration opportunities support to existing customers and to attract for our existing customers.
In its first mid-market customers with enhanced complete year in the Group, Timberline accounting and payroll products.
In its first contributed revenue of 33.8m, 12% of 10 months in the Group, Softline contributed North American revenues and operating revenue of 39.1m and operating profit of profit of 4.2m.
8.5m, including small contributions from its North American operations.
SP Leader in the small business market in Spain.
ACCPAC 1 Overview 21 Corporate Governance Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses A leading vendor of accounting and CRM solutions in the US, 2 Chairmans Statement 25 Remuneration Report 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds Canada and South-East Asia.
4 Chief Executives Review 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 37 Notes to the Accounts 8 Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Independent Auditors Report 12 Directors and Advisers 34 Company Balance Sheet 63 Notice of Meeting 7 14 Financial Review 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 65 Financial Calendar 16 Directors Report
