6 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 Chief Executives Questions and Answers On an underlying basis operating profit grew in each division: UK 11% International 1% BBH 12% In the UK there has been a strong turnaround with continuing momentum in brands, service and efficiency.
Our International businesses have demonstrated a robust performance in markets where volumes are generally depressed and at BBH there has been renewed volume and market share growth.
S&N has a clear strategy to improve efficiency through greater integration of our operations, to drive volume and value through brand investment and innovation, and to develop its positions in a number of fast growing markets.
Tony Froggatt, Chief Executive Executive Management Group Tony Froggatt Chief Executive UK France Greater Asian John Dunsmore Didier Lefvre Europe USA Development John Nicolson Markets John Hunt Finance Ian McHoul IS Simon Ricketts HR Tony Graham Operations Stephen Glancey Marketing Gary Guthrie On 28 June 2004 Legal we implemented a new Peter Kennerley management structure Corporate which provides a stronger Development operational focus on Tom Ward S&Ns key markets.
Scottish & Newcastle plc 2004 7 What progress have you made in representing a total of 12,000 outlets, You are still a business that is 2004 and how do you see the future?
some of which were new to S&N.
And heavily dependent on mature Im very pleased with our business S&N Pub Enterprises were appointed markets.
performance across the Group where to run an additional 364 leased pubs In 2004 we had organic volume growth we have seen improvements against all which secured the supply of an of 4.5%.
Not bad for a company our key operational measures.
This has incremental 100,000 barrels of beer.
S&N been due to a combination of improving is active in four of the top five markets In Russia we increased investment operational efficiency and good progress forecast to grow fastest in terms of in advertising and promotion with new on key brands across the Group.
absolute volume in the next five years, campaigns and more point of sale namely Russia, the Ukraine, the USA We have increased our investment in material including chiller cabinets.
We have also announced India and purchased a stake in We also introduced new packaging plans to increase our investment in Chongqing Beer Company in China, for Baltika No.
As a result, BBH India, which is forecast to grow 60% building on strong existing partnerships.
beer volumes in Russia increased by by 2010, although from a small base.
We have also restructured our Executive 18% in 2004 whilst Baltika volumes Management Group to provide a increased by 13% overall and by In these markets we have strong stronger operational focus on our key 25% in the second half of the year.
BBH is the market leader markets and the growth markets in Asia.
in Russia with 34% share and United But arent you sacrificing margin Breweries is the market leader in S&N has a clear strategy to improve to gain these extra volumes?
India with 51% market share, whilst efficiency through greater integration Not at all.
Overall our gross margin in Chongqing Beer Company is the fifth of our operations, to drive volume and both the UK and Russia has improved largest brewer in China.
I am sure you value through brand investment and and our operating profit is substantially will continue to see a strong contribution innovation, and to develop its positions ahead on a comparable basis.
The UK from these and other venture markets in a number of fast growing markets.
business has strong brand growth, in the future.
Our performance in 2004 gives me efficiency gains through scale advantage confidence this strategy is the right and distribution growth.
In Russia our one to drive growth and sustained net margin has fallen but is still high You have talked before about value creation at S&N.
compared to many other markets.
measuring yourself against certain The investments we have made in key performance indicators.
But isnt most of this performance marketing, sales and distribution in How are you progressing?
How the last two years have given genuine The results for 2004 show good can you continue to grow the momentum to BBH which I expect to progress against our key measures.
see maintained in the coming years.
Organic growth in beer volume was In the last year we have focused on 4.5% and led to comparable sales improving our operational efficiency and Your profits in Continental Europe growth of 2.9% excluding the 32% taking surplus assets out of the business were only up 1% is S&N really reduction in Finnish excise duty.
so that we can reinvest those resources adding value to these businesses?
Greater efficiency and a renewed focus in our brands and our customers.
In Our businesses in Continental Europe on our premium brands led to an 2004 we increased spend on advertising have performed exceptionally well improvement in gross margin of 70 and promotion A&P by 17%: we also against very tough comparatives basis points and even though we substantially increased our spend on in 2003.
For example, we had a increased investment in our brands by innovation.
I am confident we will see particularly strong performance in 17%, improved efficiency throughout the benefit of this investment in brands Portugal with Sagres volumes up the business enabled us to increase coming through in the next few years.
In France our premium brands net margin by 45 basis points.
These continued to grow volume and value good operational results, combined Can we see any benefit of share and in Finland improved efficiency with a better asset utilisation and this increased spend coming and good mix management contributed management of working capital, through already?
to an improvement in gross margin produced strong free cash flow of Yes.
For example, in the UK where of 1.3% points.
220m before a special pension we increased A&P spend by more than contribution of 200m.
Return on 20%, or 1.5%pts of net sales, volumes Throughout 2004 we have been invested capital increased to 6.5%.
of our top four brands have increased implementing programmes to share best by 4.5% in a flat market.
In the autumn practice across the Group, especially we also finalised new long-term supply in terms of marketing, brand innovation, agreements with four of the biggest operational efficiency and procurement national pub customers in the UK, and I am sure we will begin to see results from these soon.
