4 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Group results are ahead of a year ago and our core businesses water, waste and laboratories are in good shape.
These three businesses accounted for 83% of Group revenues and over 90% of Group Operating Profit.
Turnover by business % of group total in 2003 2004 4 1 3 1 Water 45% 956.7m 2 Waste 30% 633.1m 3Services 18% 381.2m 2 4Others 7% 147.1m measured against the RPI Index.
We are on track to deliver all our Our aim is to establish Severn Trent as the capital investment obligations.
UKs leading supplier of environmental goods and services, and as a major provider of Our final business plan as submitted to Ofwat for the next five year environmental solutions to the large and period aims to achieve the right balance between customer and investor expectations.
Our ambition is to deliver noticeable service growing US market.
improvements to our customers whilst maintaining household bills that deliver value for money.
At the same time we aim to achieve appropriate financial returns to our investors all of this, of course, against a background of financial prudence and careful balance sheet management.
For the average bill our final business plan would mean an increase of 57 per household by 2009 2010 in real terms.
On the basis I am pleased to report a good all-round set of results for my last full of all the plans submitted to the Regulator, this would leave Severn year as Group Chief Executive.
Our success has been achieved by Trent with the lowest average household bill for any water and concentrating on our five strategic fundamentals: sewerage company by 2009 2010.
Giving priority resources and management attention to the core businesses of water, waste and laboratories Waste In terms of acquisitions, focusing significant attention on UK waste, We are now starting to see legislative and regulatory change with smaller or bolt on acquisitions in laboratories impacting on the way we handle and treat our waste.
Improving or disposing of underperforming assets Driving for cost reduction and operating efficiencies in all In the industrial commercial sector where the waste generated businesses represents 79% of the UKs total waste tonnage, tighter packaging Exploiting Group synergies, in areas like business-wide cross regulations are being implemented.
To help customers, Biffa has a selling initiatives, and better integrating the Groups purchasing, well established compliance scheme called Biffpack that has seen human resources and operating assets membership grow by 10% in the past year.
Water The Landfill Directive requires 65% of bio-degradable municipal Severn Trent has benefited from the price increase from December waste to be diverted from landfill by 2020.
Responsibility to ensure 2002s successful interim price determination IDoK and also from this happens has been assigned to each Waste Disposal Authority continuing efforts and initiatives to manage costs and control upward and 25 year PFI treatment and disposal contracts are now being let, pressures in the business.
with Biffa well placed to compete for them.
Water remains firmly on track to out-perform against its regulatory Biffa is well positioned to take advantage of these future contract for the current five year period and meet its own stretching opportunities, particularly now that the acquisition of Hales has targets.
On the operating expenditure front, were confident of firmly established Biffa as one of the largest integrated waste achieving 75 million of gross operating cost efficiencies by the final management companies in the UK.
Against this industry framework, Biffa has achieved a solid overall The business continues to deliver efficiencies against its 2 billion result, particularly in light of the uncertain economic background.
investment programme and were confident we will deliver average This reflects the strength of Biffas management and its integrated capital expenditure efficiencies of around 5% over the AMP3 period, Collection, Landfill and Special Waste business model.
5 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Services Outlook Excluding the impact of exchange rates, turnover and profit before The past years results have clearly benefited from a focused interest, tax and goodwill amortisation improved.
This satisfactory strategy, disciplined management and tight cost controls throughout result principally reflects the P&K mould testing acquisition in April the business and we are confident that we have the right platform last year, which has enhanced our core laboratories business and for the future.
also the significant management actions taken in 2002 2003 in our Water Purification Division to rationalise and improve the cost base As this is my last report as Group Chief Executive I must stress that and re-focus the business in growth segments.
everything Severn Trent has achieved has been made possible by the enthusiasm and skill of all my colleagues.
I shall miss them Severn Trent Laboratories continued to drive forward with its core greatly but I know they will give my successor the same excellence strategies of firstly, maximising the base business share in the and dedication which will serve the Group well in the future.
traditional, routine environmental testing areas by low cost, high quality service turnround and secondly, expanding into higher growth, more attractive new areas of testing such as mould, and specialist microbiology.
Our remaining US businesses, Water Purification and Operating Services, made significant strides over the year, probably the most progress of any of our businesses.
Robert Walker Group Chief Executive Water Purification particularly has made significant improvements.
This partly reflects the downsizing in 2002 and more effective IT systems and manufacturing processes, but most recently it reflects more aggressive and targeted sales efforts behind new and higher margin products and technologies.
The Operating Services business continues to strengthen.
Contract Operations has delivered organic growth in revenue and we believe this is now the third largest business of its type in the US.
The division is currently bidding on $200 million of new business potential in the next six months in addition to the recently signed $65 million Fresh Kills Landfill contract in New York.
Core Businesses We are confident that our core businesses of water, waste and laboratories are in fine shape to take the group forward.
They each share common characteristics of leadership, scale and low cost advantage: among the best management teams in each sector: consistent strong past performance and long-term opportunities for profitable growth.
