6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 04 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chief Executive Officers review Chief Executive Officers review Key milestones We achieved a lot this year.
Our operating profits were good and we made real progress with our new business strategy, which I outlined in this section of last years report.
In particular: we increased turnover from continuing operations: we turned in a solid financial performance with a very strong cash generation from operating activities of 273.7 million: we paid our first dividend: we moved our pipeline forward, and obtained six new product approvals or line extensions in Europe and the US: and we made the business more focused, strengthened the management team and increased our R&D capabilities.
You may remember that last year I described how we intended to change the structure of the Group, so that we could work more laterally and internationally across the organisation, rather than in isolated silos.
We wanted simpler reporting lines, and a business model that brought our drug development and commercial Matthew Emmens activities closer together, and that is what we Chief Executive Officer now have.
As a result we are more competitive, more accountable and more attuned to the particular needs of the specialist doctors who are our main customers.
Our technological and R&D efforts are now concentrated on highpotential treatments that are in the later stages of development, which significantly reduces our risk profile.
As a result, we had six projects in registration by January 2004, two more in Phase 3 of development, and two in Phase 2, and by the end of the year we had received six drug approvals in Europe and in the US, including: FOSRENOL in both the US and in Europe: PENTASA 500mg in the US: ADDERALL XR for adult patients in the US: EQUETRO in the US: and XAGRID in Europe.
04 6169 UK GAAP 2004. qxd 7 12 05 1:57 PM Page 05 Shire Pharmaceuticals Group plc Chief Executive Officers review Shire has a particularly strong portfolio of Corporate social responsibility late stage projects.
METHYPATCH MTS We take a practical and contemporary approach METHYPATCH for ADHD is now in registration to corporate social responsibility and this is and we plan to register three more products an area where a lot has been achieved in the in the US by 2006: SPD503 guanfacine and last year, for instance: SPD465 longer acting ADDERALL XR both for the treatment of ADHD and SPD476 for we appointed a Global Environment and ulcerative colitis.
Health and Safety Officer for the Group: Shires strategy we completed a risk management exercise: We are a specialty pharmaceutical company and that focuses on meeting the needs of the specialist physician.
Geographically, our key we took on a range of community initiatives markets are the US and the larger European in both Philadelphia and Basingstoke.
markets of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Spain.
Angus Russell, our Chief Financial Officer, leads the committee that looks after corporate We deliberately concentrate our R&D resources social responsibility, and monitors the progress on products that are in the late stages of were making.
As last year, we will be issuing development.
This is where we expect to get a separate report on this whole area, which you the optimum combination of better returns, can download from the website, or request from more predictability, and lower risk.
We are quite our Corporate Communications Department.
open about the fact that we dont compete with the very large pharmaceutical companies The future the products we want are those that could In last years report I said that we were going to achieve sales of between $150 million and reinforce our position in the market and make $500 million at their peak.
In practice we Shire one of the leading specialty pharmaceutical do this by adding one or two new projects companies in the world.
Thats what weve done to the pipeline every year.
We also look for and will strive to maintain.
projects where we can fully exploit the intellectual property involved, which means that we actively Our operating profits are very strong, the look for licensing opportunities.
This is why I have business is growing and thats despite all the stepped up our Business Development efforts work done to reorganise the Company this year.
this year, by bringing in Barbara Deptula to head This time last year I predicted a promising future up Business Development.
In addition, Eliseo and we can see the proof of this in six product Salinas has joined us to head up the R&D function.
approvals and in the strength of our pipeline.
Patent challenges Our strategy is simple, but it is compelling and In todays markets, we know that manufacturers it is working.
This is largely due to the dedication of generic drugs will challenge our portfolio.
and professionalism of all Shire employees, and But as I said last year, we are determined this report gives me the chance to thank them all.
to defend our intellectual property vigorously and we will continue to file new patents on our projects and products.
