14 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Chief Executives review The sales growth in 2004 of 8%, or 11% organic growth at constant currencies, was a result of new products and applications, increased sales coverage in Asia and recovery in many of our markets.
Gross margins were maintained at 57% as a result of the strong underlying operating performance.
Operating profits grew by 9%, or 25% organic growth at constant currencies.
However, with higher interest costs the resulting growth in profit before tax was 4%.
Earnings per share at 32.1p 2003: 32.1p were affected by the increased tax rate of 24% in 2004 compared with 21% in 2003.
The increase was the result of improved performance in the US and the recognition of a deferred tax asset of 12 million in Denmark.
The underlying tax charge is expected to increase gradually towards the weighted average tax rate currently 31.6% over the next three years.
Asia continued to experience high growth in sales, up 16% compared with the prior year, or 23% at constant currencies, with another good year in China.
Asia now represents 24% of total sales, compared with 12% in 1999.
North America enjoyed a recovery with healthy growth of 12% at constant currencies although translated into sterling this resulted in an increase of only 1%.
Sales growth in 2004 of 8%, or 11% organic European sales grew by 9% compared with the prior year and by growth at constant currencies, was a result 11% at constant currencies.
The weakened US dollar has been a major feature for Spectris of new products and applications, increased over the past three years.
At 2002 average rates 1 $1.5, sales coverage in Asia and recovery in many operating margins in 2004 would have improved by approximately of our markets.
two percentage points compared with 2002.
Good geographical sales coverage at European businesses such as PANalytical, Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration, BTG and Malvern gave rise to a greater exposure to the dollar in 2004.
Chief Executives review Spectris plc Annual report 2004 15 Operational improvements yielding results 1999 12% 42% 20% 26% On a day-to-day basis Spectris companies operate in a relatively 2004 11% 36% 21% 32% autonomous way.
Nevertheless, they have common strategic Employee profile % total headcount themes and share best practice across the group.
2004 was another Admin Marketing R&D productive year in this regard, with the following areas delivering Operations Customer-facing further results: The increased focus on sales and marketing, particularly in Asia, has resulted in a change in the staff mix over the past few years, with a higher proportion of customer-facing employees.
Realignment of customer-facing personnel There has been a further increase in the proportion of customer-facing personnel from 31% of total employees in 2003 to 32% in 2004.
This increase, compared with a gure of 26% in 1999, reects a higher degree of outsourcing and the shift in staff mix to focus on sales and marketing, with the primary emphasis on continuing to extend coverage in Asia.
Continuous improvement in the quality of business In spite of currency pressures and some material cost ination gross margins improved, reecting management actions to improve the product mix.
efficiency and effectiveness in sales, marketing and supply Strong organic sales growth for the second year running was achieved with only a marginal increase in headcount, excluding additions from bolt-on acquisitions.
The result is sales growth and expanding underlying operating margins.
R&D and innovation leading to new business and increased competitiveness 2004 was a productive year in terms of new product introductions and penetration of new applications into high quality business areas.
Examples include a proprietary small, at microphone for acoustic measurement in automotive and aerospace applications: a hand-held scanner for reading 2D bar codes for parts tracking, particularly in the electronics industry: a portable gas analyser for measuring oxygen, targeted at the oil and gas and medical industries: and a remote wind turbine monitoring solution for the power industry.
Expenditure on new product development in 2004 totalled 35 million.
Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibrations new surface microphone is just 2.5mm high, enabling it to measure noise directly on at surfaces, for example windows, in automotive and aerospace applications.
16 Spectris plc Annual report 2004 Sector performance Electronic controls reported sales growth of 6% from 132.1 million to 139.7 million with operating profits up 9% from 15.8 million to 17.2 million.
At constant currencies, sales grew by 12% and operating profit by 16%.
Operating margins increased to 12.3% from 12.0% in 2003.
All four companies increased sales and profits at constant currencies and performance improvements were particularly notable at Microscan and HBM.
Microscan has steadily improved its market position and 2004 was no exception.
HBMs progressive transfer of load cell production to China is expected to be completed in 2005.
An impressive list of new products was introduced, including new human-machine interface controls from Red Lion and a range of force transducers from HBM.
In-line instrumentation achieved sales growth of 9% from 182.0 million to 198.4 million whilst operating profit declined by Brel & Kjr Vibros systems have found new applications in the 7% from 22.3 million to 20.8 million.
Operating margins were power industry, in particular for the remote condition monitoring of wind turbines.
The decline in operating profit resulted from a significant adverse currency effect and the year-on-year impact of a bolt-on acquisition for Loma which added 10 million in sales but incurred restructuring and integration costs of 1.1 million.
At constant currencies, sales grew by 15% and operating profit grew by 4%.
BTG made good progress despite mixed conditions in the pulp and paper market, which accounts for nearly all of its business.
Ircon, NDC and Servomex delivered solid performances.
Beta LaserMike still suffers from weakness in the wire and cable markets, a reection of the continuing low levels of investment in telecommunications infrastructure, but made progress in the year.
New products were introduced by all the companies in this sector, and in particular at Brel & Kjr Vibro, where the launch of new remote condition monitoring equipment opened up new opportunities in the power market.
00 26 01 30 02 30 03 34 04 35 Research & development m Continued investment in R&D and innovation has resulted in new business and increased competitiveness for Spectris companies.
Chief Executives review Spectris plc Annual report 2004 17 Process technology reported sales growth of 9% from The key priorities going forward are to maintain 253.9 million to 276.1 million.
Operating profit grew by 25% organic sales growth momentum, deliver high from 21.7 million to 27.2 million and operating margins levels of cash and build on existing margin increased from 8.5% to 9.9%.
All five companies grew sales, profits improvement trends in 2005 and beyond.
The impact of exchange rates was absorbed, with sales, at constant currencies, increasing by 15% and operating profit by 44%.
The supplier issues experienced in the second quarter did not impede shipments in the second half.
Bolt-on acquisitions for Particle Measuring Systems, Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and Malvern contributed 10.5 million of sales.
Innovation featured strongly, typied by a new environmental acoustics analyser from Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration and a new range of X-ray analysers from PANalytical making specic inroads in the minerals and materials market.
The pharmaceuticals and materials research markets, such as nanomaterials, continue to be potential growth areas for PANalytical, Malvern and Particle Measuring Systems.
Organic growth and margin improvements 2005 will benefit from actions taken in 2004 to improve margins and operational gearing will continue to be a factor.
Material cost increases are expected to have only a marginal effect.
In addition, management has already taken further actions in the European operations to reduce operating costs and, as a consequence, to improve the level of natural hedging.
HBM, for example, is moving standard load cell production to its facility in China and Servomex will start final assembly there.
Further sales coverage in Asia is another major factor, as is the healthy pipeline of new products and applications.
Management actions to improve the product mix will provide further margin support.
A continued focus on cash generation and new treasury processes will help to improve return on net operating assets as well as reducing interest costs.
In summary, the key priorities going forward are to maintain organic sales growth momentum, deliver high levels of cash and build on existing margin improvement trends in 2005 and beyond.
Hans Nilsson Chief Executive Microscan launched a hand-held scanner for reading 2D bar codes for parts tracking, particularly in the electronics industry.
