A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 6 chief executives review I am pleased that in 2004 we increased the sales and profits of our industrial steam and pumping businesses: both businesses are world leaders in their respective niche markets.
88% of our sales were outside the UK and we grew organic global sales by 8% which translates to an increase of 4% in sterling.
Operating profits increased by 12% despite adverse exchange rate movements of 3.75 million, although the profit increase included the nonrepeat of the factory closure costs 1.5 million in 2003.
The pre-tax profit rose by 14%, a good overall result.
M. J. D. Steel, Chief Executive The two businesses have achieved their market enables sensitive, abrasive, corrosive or valuable media leading positions by developing a network of over 40 to be pumped safely, quietly and without sales companies serving all the world's major industrial contamination.
These attributes are required in an economies.
This network supports over 1,000 sales increasing number of industrial and commercial and service engineers, whose task is to advise and applications and the steady expansion of its product help an increasing number of industrial users to range, in terms of flow rates and pressure bands, allows improve the efficiency of their systems or the quality of Watson-Marlow Bredel to address a widening market.
Both businesses serve a broad range of industries including food, beverages, The Spirax Sarco business has, through focused pharmaceuticals, electronics, biotechnology, oil, attention on its chosen market, built its strong position chemicals, pulp and paper, rubber, plastics, water in the steam-using industries in both the long treatment and many others.
This very broad spread of established and the newly developing and thus more users means that no industrial sector accounts for dynamic economies of the world.
There are also more than 10% of our sales and no single customer significant parts of the product range which are accounts for more than 1% of our sales: this diversity relatively recent additions and which offer further provides stability to our business.
Watson-Marlow Bredel has, through selective Steam is a highly effective medium for the transfer of acquisition, product development and geographical large amounts of heat energy in a wide variety of expansion, grown rapidly to lead the world market for industrial processes.
The essence of the Spirax Sarco peristaltic pumps.
This is the fastest growing segment business is to know and understand the customers' of the world pumping market.
"The peristaltic principle steam ""loop"", from the application of raw heat to water 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 7 in the boiler, through distributing the steam to the point and operating profits earned outside the UK."
Our where it gives up its heat to the process, to recycling of manufacturing base is well spread across the world but, the hot condensate to the boiler.
The steam system can despite this, the transaction impact and the translation therefore be made to operate at maximum efficiency, impact together reduced operating profit by 3.75 thereby giving the customer increased throughput million: the adverse translation effect on sales was 13 through their process, or lower costs, or better product million 4%.
This came from the roughly 10% devaluation quality, or a combination of all three.
The use of steam in 2004 of the US dollar and related weakness in the is evolving, for example with increasing hygiene South American and some Asian currencies.
Also, regulations, global warming controls and deregulation sterling was slightly stronger against the euro.
of the power generation industry: all enhance steam's attraction compared with other heat transfer media.
Turnover increased to 326 million from 314 million in 2003, an increase of 4% organic growth of 8% at The sales and marketing philosophies of our peristaltic constant exchange rates.
This was a robust underlying pumping and steam businesses are shared and are performance in which we gained market share.
The founded on our detailed and specialist technical organic growth in sales was achieved in all geographic knowledge, both of the product itself and of its regions but the main gains were in Asia and the application in detail in the end user's plant.
It follows Americas, which is a continuation of the trends from that education and training of both our own engineers 2003.
We continued the gradual increase in the and our customers' staff is central to our success.
We number of sales and service engineers.
The programme run extensive training programmes and have 35 of product developments also enhanced the offering to training centres worldwide dedicated to this objective.
customers as well as challenging our competitors.
The websites of Watson-Marlow Bredel www.
com united kingdom provide ample evidence of our ability to provide 12% americas significant benefits to our customers and hence long 26% term growth for the Group.
trading 37% continental The second half of 2004 continued the good growth europe 25% experienced in the first half.
The market background asia, australia and africa against which we have been operating has, for the most part, been positive.
The North American economies were buoyant despite pre-election caution in the USA, geographical analysis of turnover and the South American markets followed suit.
The Continental European markets were, by contrast, The Group's operating profit increased by 12% in 2004 generally weak, being negatively affected by the major from 45.8 million in 2003 to 51.1 million, a record economies of France, Germany and Italy, although there figure.
The 2003 operating profit included a charge of were some bright spots elsewhere.
The UK continued to 1.5 million for the closure of a small factory in Spain: be a dull market with the manufacturing base weakening on the other hand, the 2004 operating profit is reached and little sign of any change for the better, other than after taking the 3.75 million adverse exchange from continued government spending, particularly on movement effect which is mentioned above.
So, the the National Health Service.
The Asian economies underlying operating profit increase was 16%.
This mostly continued their strong growth, with China still came partly from the sales increases in the Americas, growing fast despite the government's measures to take Asia and, to a lesser extent, in Continental Europe and the heat out of the economy.
the UK and partly from active cost control, including raw material resourcing which counteracted the steel Exchange rates have again moved against sterling based price increases that came through in 2004.
We also businesses such as Spirax with over 80% of turnover improved productivity in the Group as a whole.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 5 A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 8 chief executives review continued The operating profit margin increased from 14.6% in 2003 to 15.7% in 2004, a stronger increase than in the previous two years.
In October 2004, we completed the acquisition of Eirdata Environmental Services for an initial consideration of 1.2 million.
This is a small company based in the Republic of Ireland providing system and utility auditing and servicing for the pharmaceutical industry and which will boost our steam system service presence in both the Republic of Ireland and the UK.
Watson-Marlow 520U R2 pump united kingdom Operating profit 2004 8,732 2003 8,021 Turnover 2004 97,419 2003 92,370 Turnover includes intra-group sales, see page 45.
Turnover in the UK domestic market grew by 2% in 2004 to 39.9 million.
The UK industrial and commercial steam using and pumping markets remained weak, with some customers closing or consolidating plants.
Our sales teams focused on areas of opportunity such as OEMs, turnkey projects, steam system management, prefabricated units and silicone tubing.
Demand on the UK factories, which are suppliers to our sales companies worldwide as well as to the domestic market, was constrained as a result of our stock reduction activities in the steam business, but was well ahead in Watson-Marlow as a result of the good demand for the new pump range and expanding tubing sales.
Operating profits in the UK were 8.7 million, up 9% on 2003.
DIVA flowmeter 6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 9 continental europe Operating profit 2004 18,866 2003 16,439 Turnover 2004 149,334 2003 146,408 Turnover includes intra-group sales, see page 45.
Sales to third party customers in Continental Europe Hygromatik, M&M and Bredel in Europe all did well increased by 3% from 117.4 million in 2003 to 121.2 although the Spirax Sarco Italian sales were flat and million in 2004: at constant exchange rates the French sales were only slightly up, a creditable position increase was 5%, which was achieved in spite of the in lacklustre markets.
The main reductions were in the subdued state of the major continental markets.
The Czech Republic, where the sales were good but below major economies are not showing consistent signs of an exceptional pre-EU accession year in 2003, and in returning to growth and probably will not do so until the Spain and Finland where the markets were difficult and restrictive regulatory systems impacting on business sales were down.
In these difficult conditions, our sales teams did well to increase demand through focused The factories in France and the Netherlands saw good sales management, concentrating on the Group-wide demand, particularly from Asia and the Americas, and sales initiatives and local actions such as targeting the increased their profits.
OEM, oil and petrochemicals, and pulp and paper markets.
Operating profits in Continental Europe were 18.9 million in 2004 which represents an increase of 15% on The sales growth in Continental Europe was relatively 2003.
The 2003 figure included the 1.5 million charge widely spread.
In Germany, despite the difficult for closure costs of the small Spanish factory: the profit conditions, the Spirax Sarco business gained market increase excluding this charge would have been 5%, share.
Norway and Sweden grew strongly, particularly and, at constant exchange rates, would have been 8%.
We also made gains in The operating profit margin improved to 12.6% from Denmark, Poland, Portugal and Switzerland.
Engineered Systems, UK Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 A R 2004 9 3 05 03:51 pm Page 10 chief executives review continued asia, australasia and africa Operating profit 2004 12,201 2003 10,955 Turnover 2004 73,161 2003 67,145 Turnover includes intra-group sales, see page 45.
The economies in Asia and Australasia continued their result of successes with sales initiatives and some recent growth record and trading conditions through good project wins.
Elsewhere, there were good sales 2004 were positive despite the high oil price and the increases in Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan and UK Chinese government's measures to slow the economy exports, particularly to the Middle East.
Our sales companies achieved good sales and profits growth based on both the market activity and Operating profit for the region was 12.2 million, which our own sales development actions.
Third party sales compares with 11.0 million last year, an increase of were 80.2 million, up from 73.3 million in 2003, an 11%.
The effect of the adverse exchange rate increase of 9%.
The weakness of the Asian currencies movements both transaction and translation has undermined the sterling results from this part of the significantly reduced the sterling value of the profit, world and the sales at constant exchange were ahead which at constant exchange would have given an by 15%.
The growth in sales was broadly spread increase of 23% over 2003, a strong result.
The across the region, with China and India producing the operating profit margin in 2004 was 16.7%, more or biggest increases, and Japan also growing well, which less unchanged from 2003, the benefit of the extra was the result of strategic actions taken by the volumes having been largely offset by the adverse effect management team.
Korean sales were ahead as a of exchange rate movements on the gross margin.
americas Operating profit 2004 11,301 2003 10,335 Turnover 2004 88,578 2003 87,962 Turnover includes intra-group sales, see page 45.
Turnover in the Americas increased in 2004 over 2003 underlying growth, and some good OEM and project by 10% at constant currency, a good increase, which orders partially compensated for the large project was, however, almost totally eliminated by the orders received in 2003: the profit was adversely weakness of the US dollar and the other Americas affected by the weak dollar.
currencies, so the sterling result does not reflect the hard work and success of our companies in the year.
All Canada produced a very good result and our Mexican the markets in the Americas were busy, although there joint venture improved sales and profits following the are some concerns, particularly in Latin America, that management changes.
the current levels of activity might not be sustained.
The operating profit for the Americas was 11.3 Our businesses in the USA both performed well.
The million, up 9% from 10.3 million in 2003 despite a Spirax Sarco company built up sales in steam system significant exchange hit.
The operating profit margin services, prefabricated units and exports to Latin improved to 12.8% in 2004 from 11.7%, the increased America, and like for like profits were well ahead.
The sales and overhead controls more than compensating Watson-Marlow Bredel business produced solid for the exchange hit on the gross margin.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2004 10 3 05 05:20 pm Page 11 tubes and hoses is advancing and our talented and balance sheet and cash flow expert team of sales engineers are successfully We finished 2004 with capital employed net assets converting users of other pump types to the peristaltic excluding net cash debt and goodwill of 167 million, principle.
So the market is expanding, hence the which was virtually unchanged from a year earlier continuing growth prospects.
despite the 8% underlying increase in business levels.
Total working capital continued to be closely controlled, We will also continue to improve the way we organise in particular stock values were marginally lower ourselves from a sales structure and management representing a good improvement compared with the point of view, as well as production and product increased sales which were reflected in higher debtors.
The advances in communications and IT There was only a small increase in net fixed assets.
The also open up opportunities for us to improve our overall return on capital employed improved again from product development processes and production 28% to 31% during the year, reflecting the increased efficiency, and build on the effectiveness of the global operating profit and broadly unchanged capital sales organisation which is unique to our Group and employed, a pleasing outcome for the year.
which is in touch with the large number of end user customers.
Cash flow for the year was also good.
The cash inflow from operating activities rose to 63.2 million 2003: These opportunities, either in the form of sales and 53.4 million.
Net capital expenditure increased to marketing openings or improving internal efficiencies, 14.1 million 2003: 11.9 million and taxation will allow us to achieve long term growth organically payments were higher, reflecting the profit increase.
and by suitable acquisitions as and when appropriate There was a small outflow of 0.8 million in respect of opportunities arise.
In the short term we are aware that acquisitions.
During the year, the opening net debt of there are doubts regarding the strength of some of the 14.4 million was eliminated due to the good trading world economies as evidenced by the recent downturn cash flows and we finished 2004 with a small net cash in the OECD leading indicators.
International Financial Reporting Standards will apply chairman's retirement for 2005, with comparative figures for 2004 restated Finally, in the Chairman's statement, Tim Fortune onto the new basis.
We have been working to confirms that he will be retiring from the Board on 12th prepare for these changes and we are well on target May after 27 years with the Group.
Tim started as to meet the required timetable.
The adoption of IFRS Production Director in the Cheltenham operating will have some impact on the presentation of the company.
In 1983 he joined the main Board as Group primary financial statements but does not change the Manufacturing Director, he became Chief Executive in economics, risk profile or cash flows of the business.
Throughout this The main areas affected will be share-based time with Spirax, Tim's hallmark has been his payments, pensions, goodwill, R&D and energetic and enthusiastic questioning of everything, consolidation of subsidiaries which affects the allied to a constant quest for improvement.
He has presentation of our minority investments in Mexico nurtured the Group's vision and clarity of purpose.
Under his stewardship the Group has made great strides and we thank him for the good shape in which he leaves Spirax.
looking ahead The markets which are served by the Spirax Sarco steam business are very diverse both geographically and industrially and, although we are the leading specialists in the world in this focused market, we still have a relatively small market share.
In addition, some of the current trends such as greater regulation of environmental issues, health, safety and hygiene, increasing outsourcing and slimming down by customers are all tending to increase demand for the knowledge, service and support that we provide.
There M. J. D. Steel, Chief Executive are also markets, both geographical and industrial, where we are not as strong as we could be.
All of which means that the long term growth of the past has the potential to continue into the future.
The Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pumping business has a high share of the focused industrial and laboratory markets but the technology of the pumps, Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9
