Chief Executives Statement A lot of detailed work and discussion has yet to take place during the remainder of the Scottish and Southern Energys strategy distribution price control review for 2005 continues to be focused on the delivery of to 2010, involving companies, the industry consistent, year-on-year real increases in the regulator, Ofgem, and other stakeholders, dividend payable to shareholders, supported particularly on the cost of capital.
It is by growth in earnings per share.
Sustainable encouraging that Ofgem has said that a key growth is best achieved through effective priority in the distribution price control for management of core businesses, supplemented 2005 to 2010 is to protect the interests of by the disciplined delivery of well-founded customers by ensuring that there is sufficient investment plans and, where appropriate, scope for companies to invest in their by carefully-selected acquisitions.
networks to safeguard security of supply and meet future demands from generation directly The speed and the extent of change connected to the distribution network.
currently taking place in the UK energy We attach the highest Ofgem has also acknowledged that the UKs sector has opened up a series of major priority to enhancing transmission system needs to be reinforced opportunities for SSE, and our emphasis on value by managing our to facilitate the addition of new renewable maintaining financial strength will enable us existing businesses well generation.
The first vital step in this is the to exploit those opportunities in full over the need to replace the existing transmission line next few years.
Against this background, through operational between the Highlands and the central belt of there are four areas in which our business excellence.
Where growth Scotland with an upgraded line.
This has to can enhance and create value for opportunities arise, we be built if national targets for the generation shareholders in the future: will only exploit them to of electricity from renewable sources are to the extent that they be achieved.
maintaining and investing in our match our existing areas electricity networks: In keeping with our commitment to take of activity, typically in proper account of the interests of theadding to our leading-edge generation the energy and utility communities in which we operate, we are portfolio: fields in the UK.
undertaking extensive consultations on the selection of a route for the new line andgrowing our energy supply business: and expect to submit an application before the Ian Marchant end of 2004 for consent to build it.
developing our growing presence in Chief Executive businesses such as contracting, new Major upgrades of the electricity network connections and gas storage.
will lead to an increase in our Regulated Asset Base, and the investment The delivery of strong performance in each opportunities that are now apparent in our of these areas will underpin future growth distribution and transmission networks are in the dividend and earnings per share.
the most significant since well before the privatisation of the UKs electricity Maintaining and investing in our industry.
Our focus will be on delivering the electricity networks necessary investment programmes in an We believe that a key corporate efficient and effective manner.
responsibility is to maintain and operate a safe and reliable electricity network and, Adding to our leading-edge in line with this, it is encouraging that our generation portfolio performance across a range of measures There is now under way a clear shift continues to be good.
This performance towards energy sources and generation has been achieved while maintaining a technologies that produce less, or no, downward pressure on costs, and confirms carbon emissions.
This has been reinforced that our electricity networks are among by the progress made towards implementing the most efficient in the world.
the European Unions emissions trading scheme and by the UK governments Investment is now the key issue facing decision to extend its target for electricity electricity network companies in the UK.
generated from renewable sources to 15% Since the start of the present price by 2015.
The EU Renewables Directive control period in 2000, our electricity aims at increasing the share of electricity networks have benefited from investment produced from renewable sources in the EU totalling 602.9m, including 252.9m to 22% by 2010. on network expansion.
Looking ahead, as the House of Commons SSE is uniquely placed to take advantage Trade and Industry Select Committee made of these developments.
The high thermal clear in its Report in March 2004, there efficiency of our gas-fired power stations needs to be greater emphasis on ensuring that means that they require less fuel to generate electricity network owners have the financial a given amount of electricity, and we resources necessary to secure a viable longcontinue to have the most efficient portfolio term electricity supply.
The Committee also of stations in the UK among major pointed out that extra investment is required generators.
They are, therefore, less exposed to ensure that the network is ready for the to high wholesale gas prices and produce anticipated changes to electricity generation fewer emissions than other thermal power over the next decade.
This, combined with the fact we Scottish and Southern Energy plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 continue to have the largest renewable Supply customer numbers million 04 5.25 generation capacity in the country, means 03 4.85 we are well-placed for the introduction of 02 4.63 01 4.73 the emissions trading scheme in 2005.
00 3.62 Our generation portfolio has been consent in future years.
The development strengthened by the acquisition of 100% of this capacity, if consented, will require ownership of the 688MW Medway Power investment of around 300m in addition to Station in November 2003, for 241.1m.
the 200m already earmarked, over the This enabled us to add another modern, next five years.
flexible and efficient power station to our group of generation assets.
It also gives us In April 2004, the Highland Council accepted the economic benefit from having a 100% that the development of the 100MW hydrointerest in Medways contracts to supply electric station planned for Glendoe at Loch power, as well as the ability to meet these and Ness should proceed and the planning other generation requirements more flexibly.
application is now with Scottish Ministers The purchase of the 120MW gas-fired power for determination.
We have also secured station at Cardenden, in Fife, for 12.5m in planning permission to develop 7MW of new February 2004 will provide further diversity hydro-electric capacity at Fasnakyle, the of plant mix within our generation portfolio, output of which should qualify for ROCs.
particularly in the mid-merit sector.
The All of this work should enable SSE to have station successfully generated electricity in more than 1,000MW of ROC-qualifying May 2004 as part of its planned return to generation capacity by 2008. full service for the coming winter.
Both acquisitions emphasise our commitment Our decision, announced in November 2003, to acquiring only assets which are closely to terminate the structural agreements with aligned to existing businesses and Scottish Power, put in place at privatisation, operations and which do not represent will release flexible gas-fired and hydro a major diversification from our core areas generation capacity to deploy in the market.
At the same time it will result in a net loss of income, of less than 10m a year on The introduction of the new British average, through to 2012.
Electricity Trading and Transmission Arrangements BETTA in April 2005 will In the future, however, the profitability of create a single, unified electricity market our generation activities will receive a major across Great Britain.
BETTA will extend the boost from Ofgems agreement in November electricity trading arrangements currently 2003 that Hydro Benefit should be operating in England and Wales to Scotland abolished.
This was a formula-based and will require the creation of a single payment made by our generation business system operator responsible for real-time to subsidise the relatively high cost of balancing of the supply and demand of distributing electricity in the north of electricity across the three electricity Scotland.
The abolition of Hydro Benefit transmission networks in Britain.
A unified will increase SSEs profit from generation Investment in renewable electricity market across Britain should be activities by around 37m a year from energy which qualifies beneficial to the market and to SSE.
2005 06. for the premium price associated with Renewable SSE intends to remain the UKs largest Ofgems recognition that the maintenance Obligation Certificates generator of electricity from renewable of Hydro Benefit would be incompatible sources, and to that end we have now with European Union law was a welcome ROCs is expected to be secured planning permission to develop development, as was the swift action by the a major driver of value 162MW of new wind energy capacity.
UK government to establish an alternative creation in the next few Planning applications have been submitted mechanism to limit the cost to customers years.
Our strong balance to the relevant authorities in respect of a of electricity distribution in the north of sheet means we have the further 120MW of new wind farm capacity.
The outcome, therefore, is one ability to invest in this All of these developments will require which protects the interests of customers investment of around 200m.
and is also positive for SSE.
It is also an outstanding opportunity example of the benefits to be derived from for growth, and we are Investment in renewable energy which ensuring the business is focused on the now planning the next qualifies for the premium price associated effective management of key issues, and phase of our investment.
with Renewable Obligation Certificates from active and constructive engagement ROCs is expected to be a major driver of with key stakeholders.
value creation in the next few years.
Our strong balance sheet means we have the Growing our energy supply business ability to invest in this outstanding The achievement of organic growth by opportunity for growth, and we are now managing core businesses well is central planning the next phase of our investment in to our strategy for enhancing value, as our wind energy.
We expect to submit planning supply business illustrates.
It has continued applications in respect of a further 200MW its recent track record of growth and is of capacity at five sites during 2004 05. now larger than ever before, with 5.55m A number of other sites are also being customers an increase of one million, developed, with a view to seeking planning or 22%, since the start of 2002.
We gained Scottish and Southern Energy plc 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Chief Executives Statement continued With the UK set to become a net importer of gas within the next few years, the need 400,000 customers during 2003 04 for, and the value of, gas storage facilities andthen acquired more than 300,000 from is likely to be greater than ever before.
Atlantic Electric & Gas in April 2004.
Since we acquired the UKs largest onshore gas storage facility at Hornsea in 2002, Ofgems review of competition in energy demand for its facilities has been high.
With supply, published in April 2004, confirmed the acquisition of Hornsea came the rights that competition is working, and our to develop a new gas storage facility at recent growth has been achieved in a nearby Aldbrough.
We have entered into a challenging environment.
joint venture with Statoil UK to develop what will overtake Hornsea as the largest Our long-term success as an energy supplier facility of its type in the UK.
Construction depends on safeguarding our reputation for of the project, of which SSE will own two excellent customer service.
It is this thirds and in which we are investing reputation which has helped our three 150m, started in March 2004. strong regional brands Southern Electric, SWALEC and Scottish Hydro Electric to The progress of our gas storage business be more successful at retaining customers is an illustration of how value for in their traditional areas than any other shareholders can be created through suppliers of electricity.
The leading carefully-selected acquisitions and through independent study, by JD Power, confirmed the implementation of well-founded that SSE continues to have the highest investment opportunities.
customer satisfaction rating among electricity suppliers in the UK.
In addition, The acquisition of Neoscorp Ltd in April we have secured a 23% reduction in the 2003 has enabled us to create an enlarged number of customer complaints in the telecoms business, with the addition of a year, despite the significant growth in further 4,500km of fibre network, forming customer numbers.
Although sales growth was lower than expected in 2003 04, we It is important to maximise the value to be now have a national telecoms network, a derived from the significantly enlarged UK-wide sales force and a competitive range customer base which has been built up since of products targeted at commercial and the start of 2002.
This will be achieved by public sector customers.
This puts us in a further strengthening relationships with good position to achieve faster sales growth customers through the development of an going forward.
expanded range of energy products and providing a selection of additional energyStrategy related services from other parts of SSE, Our focus continues to be on sustainable such as domestic appliances and electrical long-term real dividend growth.
Looking ahead, the Consequently, we attach the highest focus of our retail appliance business will importance to enhancing value by managing be on supporting our energy supply brands.
our existing businesses well through The leading independent operational excellence.
Where growth study, by JD Power, Developing our other businesses opportunities arise, we will only exploit confirmed that SSE Over a number of years we have been them to maximise shareholder return in continues to have the focused on developing our growing existing areas of activity, typically in the highest customer presence in our non-utility businesses energy and utility sectors in the UK.
contracting and new connections, gas satisfaction among storage and telecommunications.
This same rigour applies to merger electricity suppliers in the Combined, these businesses have achieved and acquisition opportunities.
In addition, we have significant growth in recent years and we expanded through the incremental addition secured a 23% reduction believe that important developments in of assets which have been successfully in the number of customer their markets mean they are well-placed integrated into our existing businesses.
complaints, despite the for further growth through exploitation As demonstrated during 2003 04, of new opportunities.
we will continue with this disciplined significant growth in approach towards all existing and future customer numbers.
The extension of the Private Finance acquisition possibilities.
Initiative PFI to street lighting has enabled our contracting businesses, in partnership There have been, and continue to be, with the asset finance division of The Royal material changes in the energy sector in Bank of Scotland, to secure PFI contracts the UK in legislation, regulation, and in worth a total of 350m to replace and the market as a whole which are creating maintain street lights for three large local substantial opportunities.
We are also able to provide a balance sheet strength, the financial one-stop service for major building projects, discipline and the operational excellence to delivering fully funded projects from exploit these opportunities and so continue conception to completion and beyond.
This to deliver significant value for shareholders provides a unique proposition which sets our in the future.
business apart from other contractors.
Scottish and Southern Energy plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2004
