Chief Executives review Stagecoachs development has always been driven by our ability to identify I am delighted that South West Trains has proved to be part of the new ideas and growth opportunities at an early stage and to deliver them solution by joining with the infrastructure operator, Network Rail, to open quickly.
I am delighted that this year we have demonstrated yet again that the UKs first integrated operations control centre at Waterloo station in we are at the cutting edge of new thinking in the provision of high London.
This has set the standard for similar centres elsewhere in the quality bus and rail services.
Similarly, both the Department for Transport and the Scottish Executive have adopted our Kick Start proposals for targeted funding Innovation can only become a reality with strong, effective management to support the introduction of new bus services.
We also welcome the and a team of talented and committed people that understand our Governments commitment to quality partnerships and structural stability customers needs.
These qualities have underpinned our progress and in the UK Bus industry.
success in the past 12 months as we attract more people to bus and rail The past year has seen the completion of a major restructuring of our travel and deliver increased value to our shareholders.
We now have an established core of more Our focus on new business development through investment in research robust businesses, centred on our North East and North Central regions is driving growth, particularly in our UK Bus networks.
This year, we have of the United States, and Canada.
As promised a year ago, the operating launched two UK transport firsts megabus.
com, the countrys first low profit of our North American business has been maintained on a cost internet bus network, and Yellow Taxibus, an innovative demand significantly smaller base of operations and I am confident the business responsive service in Fife, Scotland.
These projects are part of our strategy can make an increased contribution to earnings moving forward.
to tap into new markets and drive organic growth in our business.
In New Zealand, we had a particularly successful financial year in 2002 03 Megabus.
com is an excellent example of our ability to stay ahead of the as a result of the increased traffic associated with the Americas Cup yacht competition by researching, developing and implementing new ideas race in Auckland.
This year, without an uplift from such a major quickly.
Within less than a year, we have built an inter-city network that international event and despite a challenging operating environment, we covers more than 20 routes in Scotland, England and Wales.
Passenger have seen further passenger growth over our combined New Zealand numbers and revenues are ahead of our expectations.
operations, which continue to generate good returns for the Group.
We are working hard to refresh our provincial bus networks and have The Group has made a promising start to the current financial year and trading is in line with our expectations.
continued to invest in new vehicles during the year to 30 April 2004.
In London, where we operate a large number of contracts on behalf of Across all its businesses, Stagecoach has always retained a commitment Transport for London TfL, we have grown turnover this year by over to good environmental stewardship as part of its day-to-day public 19%.
Even with significant development of new services and increased cost transport provision.
We have set ourselves some challenging targets for pressures, we have increased our margins within our UK Bus division.
the year ahead as part of a new wide-ranging Group environmental policy.
Our trial of a next generation fuel additive product in our UK Bus Our Rail division has delivered an outstanding performance, with operating division has potential to deliver significant cuts in fuel consumption and profits up 15.4%.
The new three-year franchise at South West Trains has vehicle emissions that could have positive implications for the whole of started positively.
Over the past year, there has been a notable reduction the bus industry.
in the number of delay minutes attributed to South West Trains.
This step-change in quality is all the more impressive having been achieved The hard work and loyalty of all our people and their positive response to while managing the introduction of a new fleet of trains.
Passengers are our strategy has ensured Stagecoach has made a fast recovery.
Now that benefiting from record levels of investment as 40-year-old slam door we are firmly back on track, our challenge is to reposition the Group as a carriages are replaced by the state-of-the-art Desiro fleet.
leading UK-based public transport specialist and continue to generate growth and shareholder value.
I am confident the foundations we have At our joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, we have strengthened the put in place will ensure we are well placed for further success.
management team, which remains firmly focused on successfully renegotiating the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
Two-and-a-half years ago, Stagecoach launched its proposals for improved integration on the UK railways in our policy paper, A Platform for Change.
Gradually, our analysis of the issues and our thinking on the way forward for the countrys fragmented rail network has gathered support Brian Souter and we have updated these ideas as part of our contribution to the Chief Executive Governments rail review.
