Group On a number of fronts, 2004 marked All our businesses are built on strong a turning point for SMG, as we put the brands, occupying powerful positions advertising downturn behind us, further in their respective markets, and we are restored the Groups balance sheet determined to capitalise on these strengths strength and enjoyed a return to growth as advertising markets continue to improve.
In each area we have continued to invest in new opportunities so that not only will Overall, we saw strong growth in revenues we benefit from the cyclical upturn but up 7% on a like for like basis to 201.2m also from the many new revenue streams driven by a solid performance in Television, and business developments which we are supported by encouraging growth from only beginning to explore.
This converted into an increase of 9% in like for like Once again, SMGs staff on whom we pre-tax profits to 17.5m, although progress depend to create our content and satisfy was held back by further investment in the needs of our viewers, listeners and our outdoor advertising business and by advertisers, have displayed their enthusiasm, variability in some advertising markets, energy and passion to perform at the particularly Radio.
I would like to personally thank them for their continued hard work and commitment to making SMG stand out in an ever more competitive media landscape.
chief executives review 05 Television Scottish TV and Grampian TV performed Our focus remains on creating a service exceptionally well in 2004.
Airtime sales tailored for Scots built on the best of grew by 8%, well ahead of ITV1 and national television blended with high outperforming the commercial television quality local programmes.
This resulted from two key the only regional producer of drama and factors a very strong performance by continue to complement the ITV Network our Scottish-based airtime sales team schedule with local programming to ensure dedicated to serving local advertisers: the popularity of Scottish TV and Grampian and a more favourable mix of national TV in a multi-channel world.
We currently advertisers seeking more balanced, await the outcome of the review of public truly national campaigns.
service broadcasting by our regulator, Ofcom, and we are hopeful that this will Grampian TV and Scottish TV continue provide the opportunity and the funding to enjoy a privileged place in the hearts for us to service the needs of the Scottish and minds of the Scottish viewing public.
viewing public even better as we move With a 32% audience share, they remain towards digital switchover.
the most popular peak-time stations in Scotland once again performing ahead SMG Television Productions, our network of the ITV Network overall and some programme production arm, grew turnover 7% ahead of our nearest competitor, by 10% and has significantly expanded its BBC1 Scotland.
customer base over the past two years.
06 We are now making high quality programmes for all of the UKs major networks thereby reducing our reliance on ITV.
Hit shows in 2004 included: Taggart ITV1 : Our Daughter Holly ITV1 : 25 Years of the Comedy Store BBC1 : Extreme Earnings Per Share Health C4 : Woolamaloo Five : So You Think Youre Safe Sky One : High School Project USA Living TV.
Our facilities hire and channel management business, SMG Broadcast & Event Solutions, gathers momentum from the growth of multi-channel television and the media requirements of major events.
During the year we concluded a major four-year, 10m contract with Setanta for its subscription-based Scottish football channels, which creates an excellent platform for further development.
07 Radio Virgin Radio had a challenging year as comparable sound quality, is high quality audience measurement issues and an and very competitive, making us market uneven radio advertising market combined leader in London for 25-34 year old men.
to impact on the stations revenues.
Although Virgin Radios audience figures Allied to the quality of our programming, returned to more normal levels in the the strength of the Virgin Radio brand second half, the national radio advertising provides us with an enviable position market weakened, particularly in the fourth as digital technology opens up the radio quarter.
RAJAR has moved to strengthen its market.
Virgin Radios premier position in investment in research to ensure it reaches internet listening stands testimony to the its target survey levels and to cope with value of the brand in the most competitive the increasing number of radio stations.
Volatility may continue but we believe that RAJARs actions should see the more We are ensuring that Virgin Radio is extreme variances being smoothed out.
available on as many digital platforms as possible including DAB, satellite and Musically, rock continues its revival and through mobile telephony.
In addition, Virgin Radio matches its playlist precisely in October 2004 we launched two new to its target audience of 25-44 year olds, services digitally in London and online alternating between todays best music Virgin Radio Classic Rock and Virgin Radio and classic tracks.
The quality of the AM Groove.
Each is targeted on a slightly signal, on which the station broadcasts different demographic than the main nationally, creates inevitable audience service to increase our range of music erosion but in London on FM Virgin Radio and appeal to new advertisers.
These continues to perform strongly.
London new services are already generating is the most competitive radio market in over one million listening hours per week the UK and Virgin Radios audience has despite their limited distribution and performed in line with the commercial we are generating good demand from radio market and significantly ahead of its advertisers reinforcing our view principal competitors.
This confirms that of Virgin Radios excellent potential our programming, when listened to in in a digital world.
08 09 10 Out of Home Our Out of Home Division recognises that The continued investment in panel build lifestyles for consumers are changing and in our core six sheet inventory and in our that advertisers need more varied ways newer format large-scale Backlight panels of reaching them.
Primesight, our outdoor holds back profitability.
However, we are business, and the well-known cinema now the third largest operator in the six advertising business, Pearl & Dean, have sheet market and have market-leading bucked the trend through the advertising positions in petrol stations, health clubs downturn.
Primesight has more than and convenience stores.
Our Backlight doubled its number of panels to over estate now numbers over 70 panels 12,500 since 1999.
In 2004 this expansion and we expect this business to move helped Primesight to grow revenues by 16% into profitability in 2005. twice the rate of growth of the outdoor market as a whole.
11 12 Pearl & Deans revenues grew by 5%, Conclusion which was ahead of the cinema market SMG is in good shape to capitalise on as a whole but was heavily weighted to the advertising upturn and the many new the second half due to the pattern of opportunities that are created by changing film releases.
Total cinema admissions technology, lifestyle and customers increased, to 171 million resuming demands.
With a strengthened balance the growth pattern of recent years.
sheet, strong brands, healthy market We anticipate further growth in admissions positions and committed people working in 2005 on the back of an encouraging throughout the Group, we are determined film release schedule featuring a number to succeed.
In doing so, we will create of sequels, which play particularly well and enhance shareholder value.
with advertisers who welcome a degree of certainty over the demographics and Andrew Flanagan size of audiences that such movies attract.
Chief Executive Good progress on renewing contracts such as Vue and Apollo and excellent growth in the independent sector was offset more recently by the loss of the UGC contract following a change of control.
This will not take effect until 2006 and we do not anticipate a significant profit impact from this contract loss.
