more value We supply information that is vital its marketing team around these to health.
Our analysis of this data to business decision-making but it is segments.
Each team has to know its contributes to the debate on our insights that help clients build clients directly and TNS has built a future policies in this area.
and maintain real competitive programme called the beat to give TNS Media Intelligence has also advantage.
We live in a world where them the skills and confidence to responded to this challenge.
markets are shifting, the number of develop these relationships.
Built Obesity is just one of the issues products keeps growing and tastes around an innovative handbook, tracked daily by its newly launched are changing.
More information is workshops and mentoring, TNS is European Media Digest.
now available at a click of a mouse helping to give our client the than a person could access in a confidence to take its consumer In all these examples, we are lifetime just a few years ago.
delivering added value to our clients.
This enables us to With all this information Hidden insights differentiate ourselves from our whether it is in healthcare, telecoms, In Germany, TNS Infratest worked competitors, helping to build automotive or media, how do with a major automotive genuine competitive advantage.
companies discover what is really manufacturer that owned data from going on?
What do we do to make two ongoing surveys, one covering sure our clients get the insight and the rational aspects of car purchases, Giving clients clarity they need to give their the other reporting on emotional business edge business the edge?
We integrated Looking these findings to identify the At TNS we look behind the underlying structure of this market behind the numbers numbers, between the lines, beyond across both rational and emotional the trends.
At TNS we think between the lines needs, relating them to customer differently.
That is what makes us satisfaction.
This allows the client to beyond the trends the sixth sense of business.
This is understand the implications for its more than just a phrase: it Thinking differently strategic development insights that represents the way we run our had not previously been available.
We look at how we can incorporate the thinking behind Tackling topical issues the sixth sense of business into A big issue for consumer goods everything we do.
We examine clients is what they should do about client relationships, communicarising obesity levels.
Within tions, knowledge management, Worldpanel, we have talked to products and services, to see how governments, manufacturers and they can be improved.
retailers to understand their concerns.
In response, we have In New Zealand, the TNS added the measurement of body relationship with Vodafone mass index information to many of illustrates how we put this thinking our panel services across the world into practice.
Over the past two and are introducing additional years, we have helped our client questions on exercise and attitudes segment its client base and organise 19 the sixth sense of business
