Chief Executives review In the last 12 months, we have made significant progress across all aspects of our operational performance and have taken some significant steps towards stability and future growth.
Significant progress since completion of Strong execution against In particular, in August 2003, we became financial restructuring product roadmaps the first strategic supplier to be selected to We completed our financial restructuring Over 50% of our research & development participate in BTs 21st Century Network and re-listing in May 2003 and this has investment is focused on next-generation project, with the award of a three-year frame provided Marconi with a solid foundation products, which are yet to be launched or contract for the supply of our Access Hub from which to develop our ongoing business.
have been commercially available for less and associated services.
We are seeing an We have emerged as a sustainable, focused than two years.
During the last 12 months, increasing level of interest for carrier-grade company built around our strengths: leadingin particular, we have: softswitching from many customers in Europe edge products and services, loyal customers and Asia Pacific.
This will be an important Launched a complete new range of who see us as partners who add value, and a component of next-generation networks.
next-generation SDH and DWDM optical proud team of people who are results driven We have initial network deployments transmission products with enhanced data and prepared to go the extra mile to achieve with Jersey Telecom and Kingston functionality, which will optimise network success.
In the last 12 months, we have Communications and have been selected efficiency and lower operating costs: made significant progress across all aspects to support BT in its next-generation Public of our operational performance and have Increased the range of services that Switched Telephone Networks PSTN taken some significant steps towards stability operators can offer across our leading-edge transformation trial.
We believe that this is a and future growth.
Access Hub platform, with the launch of terrific endorsement of the capabilities of our VDSL and Ethernet line cards that allow products and are increasingly confident that Next-generation networks operators to achieve significant cost savings we have a strong differentiated softswitch.
Whilst our major telecommunications and create new revenue opportunities by In the US, we continue to benefit from customers continue to exercise tight control combining voice and data services across increased sales to the Federal Government, over capital expenditure on network a common platform: and who awarded us a new $33 million order for equipment and services, we have experienced additional units of the BXR-48000 in the final Launched the second release of our increasing stability in demand throughout the quarter.
In addition, we have signed a number BXR-48000 multi-service switch router that course of the year.
This translated to three of major long-term service contracts in the UK, incorporates enhanced Internet Protocol quarters of modest sequential sales growth Germany and the Middle East.
capabilities, allowing carriers to support their from Continuing Operations to 378 million existing telephony services and revenue in the final quarter of the year from the All operational targets delivered streams while introducing new broadband seasonally low first quarter of 342 million.
At the time of our re-listing, we committed services and applying traditional service to three main operational targets and have More importantly, we have observed a marked guarantees across them.
devoted time and resource to focus the increase in tender activity and product trials More information on these and other product organisation on their successful delivery across most geographic areas, with customers developments can be found in the Technology through a series of cost reduction and cash particularly focused on the deployment of overview on page 24. generation initiatives.
We reviewed progress access networks to deliver new broadband throughout the year on a regular basis at both services and 3G for mobile operators.
Significant contract renewals Executive Committee and Board meetings.
We have been talking to network operators and new business wins We increased adjusted gross margin for some time now about next-generation We have dedicated resources focused on before exceptional items from 22.5% in the networks and are encouraged to see a customer satisfaction and aim to continuously first quarter to 31.5% in the fourth quarter common view emerging in the industry.
improve the quality of service we provide from our Continuing Operations.
Even when This centres on the provision of voice, data to our customers.
We believe that this, excluding the one percentage point benefit of and video services across single product combined with our strong product offering a non-recurring high margin software sale in platforms.
We believe that this is a clear is key to our continued success in our the final quarter of the year, we exceeded our endorsement of our next-generation network competitive marketplace.
vision and we have strong products today and During the year we signed frame contract 1 innovative product developments planned, Similarly, at 387 million, we were slightly renewals for optical transmission equipment which position us well to compete ahead of our 390 million target exit rate for with Belgacom and Telecom Italia and in this space.
operating costs before share options, goodwill recorded new optical business wins with amortisation and exceptional items by Telstra Australia and TeliaSonera 31 March 2004.
We continued to build on our initial achievements in broadband access.
4 As a result, as shown in more detail on associated interest charge.
To this end, we In the first quarter of the year, we expect a page 14, we were able to record our first continue to manage our US-based Outside combination of lower sales volumes and less operating profit before goodwill amortisation Plant & Power business for value and to favourable business mix to lead to a slight and exceptional items in the last quarter.
pursue further releases of performance bond reduction in adjusted gross margin.
final quarter, we expect our planned cost In addition, we generated positive operating savings to enable us to generate an adjusted cash flow before exceptional items, as FY05 outlook and business priorities gross margin in the mid-thirties.
This phasing targeted, in each of the four quarters of the Focusing now on the financial year ahead, translates to a full year target margin in the financial year, recording a total operating we continue to see stability in market region of 33%.
cash inflow of 151 million for the year as conditions and based on our view of activity a whole before exceptional cash costs of under existing frame contracts and our order To maximise conversion of our operating 166 million relating to our operational and pipeline, we see potential for low single digit result into positive operating cash flow financial restructuring.
percentage growth in sales compared to the before exceptional items A discussion of the main drivers contributing 1,453 million for Continuing Operations We will continue to focus on operating cash to these positive trends as well as recorded in the year ended 31 March 2004 at generation through improved operational 4 reconciliation to UK GAAP measures can be constant currency.
We expect this to be performance and continued tight management found in the Operating and financial review on driven mainly by incremental sales of our of working capital.
Access Hub product as BT begins to deploy Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to all its next-generation network.
our shareholders, customers, supply partners Substantial progress on Notes reduction We have three main operational priorities: and last but definitely not least everyone who Overall, we exceeded our cash generation works for Marconi for their continued support plans during the year.
This was mainly a result To capture market share today through and for their contribution to making the last of successful business disposals from which next-generation contract wins that will year one of real achievement.
With your we generated cash proceeds of 228 million translate to growth opportunities for the continued support Marconi will deliver another 2 and strong operating cash inflows.
business in the medium-term strong year of progress.
Through a series of mandatory redemptions In particular, we aim to defend our leading In summary, our fourth quarter results, with the and market repurchases, we made substantial position in European optical networks, while achievement of all of our operational targets progress towards the paydown of the new aggressively growing our share of the represent a significant milestone in our Junior and Senior Notes issued at the time broadband access market in Europe and recovery.
We delivered profit, our sales have of our financial restructuring.
Indeed, by selected territories in Asia Pacific.
We will stabilised and we have cash in the bank.
31 March 2004, we had paid down the Junior exploit opportunities for growth in the field of All of our energy is now turned to delivering Notes in full and reduced the amount of Senior value-added services as well as in broadband profitable growth.
With over routing & switching where we are particularly 500 million of cash in the bank, this gives us focused on government, security and a solid net cash balance of over 200 million, surveillance activities.
compared to 25 million pro forma net debt at 3 31 March 2003.
To further improve our adjusted gross margin before exceptional items Since joining Marconi in October 2003 as and maintain our tight control on Chief Financial Officer, one of Pavi Binnings operating costs first priorities has been to oversee a detailed Mike Parton We are targeting a four percentage point review of our capital structure, which was Chief Executive improvement in adjusted gross margin for the completed in May 2004.
This resulted in the year as a whole which we expect to achieve Boards decision to confirm our strategy to mainly through further benefits from our continue to focus on the paydown of our outsourced manufacturing arrangements and Senior Notes in order to eliminate the product cost reductions.
In addition, we will benefit from a further two percentage point increase resulting from a cost reclassification effective from 1 April 2004 see page 12.
1 calculated as Q4 operating costs before share option costs, goodwill amortisation, non-recurring costs, exceptional items and after further savings that would have been acheived in the quarter, if all cost savings had occurred at the beginning of the quarter multiplied by four.
2 before exceptional items see page 50.
3 as reported in note 1 of the 2002-03 Annual Report.
4 see page 8 for average rates applied.
