TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Chief executives review For the year ended 31 December 2004 Results The company enjoyed a further year of strong performance in 2004.
Operating profit before amortisation of goodwill of 17.4 million 2003: 15.3 million rose 14 per cent to 218.2 million from 191.4 million in 2003.
Turnover Brick matching increased by 9 per cent to 1,826.6 million from Build the Dream 1,678.3 million.
Sales growth was again driven by our Website advice ongoing programme of investment in the acquisition of E commerce independent merchants and in the opening of new Estimating brown-field sites.
Indeed, in 2004 the company achieved a record number of one-off branch services openings.
Group like-for-like sales were up 1.8 per cent.
Forest products Heavyside The overall operating margin, before goodwill amortisation, for the year moved up again, from Land finding service 11.4 per cent to 11.9 per cent, as a result of further improvements in procurement, overhead Lightside efficiencies gained as the group grew and our overall culture of continuous improvement.
Online account management City Plumbing Supplies CPS and Commercial Ceiling Factors CCF performed well during Paint mixing a period of considerable restructuring in both businesses.
Jayhard and B&G have now been fully Plumbing and integrated into the CPS management structure and significant investment was made in the heating acquired branches last year, with further similar investment planned for 2005.
Gross profit as a Self build advice percentage of sales improved further on a like-for-like basis.
Timber Toolhire Developments The past year saw significant growth in the rate of addition of one-off branches, both from the acquisition of smaller independent businesses and from the opening of brown-field sites.
In all 67 new sites were added.
The company completed 16 consolidations, mostly within the plumbing and heating network, as opportunities were taken to reduce operating costs while maintaining sales.
The net addition to the branch total was 51.
6 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The brick library at Travis Perkins, Northampton Decorating centres are available in many branches 7 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The acquisition of 30 mixed merchant branches and the opening of 21 brown-field sites filled a number of key gaps in the geographic coverage of the Travis Perkins brand.
At the same time a further 3 outlets were added to the Keyline branch network.
The groups specialist network of plumbing and heating branches under the CPS brand increased by a net 1 branch, comprising 4 acquired branches, 9 brown-field openings and 12 consolidations.
The total amount spent on acquisitions was 39 million.
By the end of 2004 the group was trading from 751 outlets compared with 700 a year earlier.
Branch improvements We have continued to invest in the branch network in order to ensure continuous improvement in customer facilities.
During the year redevelopment projects were carried out at numerous Travis Perkins branches, including those in Caerphilly, Gastard, Erdington, Shepshed, Crosby, Oswestry, Northampton, Cromer, Slough, Urmston, Forfar and Watford.
The upgrading of Keyline branches continued, with refurbishments at Colchester, Swindon, Elgin, Norwich and Kingswinford.
Two CCF branches were moved into larger, improved units in Nottingham and Cardiff.
A major upgrading programme of bathroom showroom facilities at more than 25 CPS branches was also completed during the year.
Information technology We have continued to invest in the quality of our information technology infrastructure, notably through the installation across the branch network of over four thousand new PCs, together with supporting server capacity.
Having achieved chip and pin accreditation, the introduction of this technology for debit and credit card authorisation across the group was included in the PC rollout programme, along with the replacement of all of our point-of-sale scanners.
Wireless terminals have been added to the control systems at our distribution centre in Brackmills, resulting in increased efficiency and throughput.
We are also in the process of piloting the use of wireless hand-held terminals in a number of our branches.
The groups websites have been given a new look and an enhanced range of facilities, on a consistent basis, for the various brands.
A more comprehensive section on financial and corporate information has also been included.
8 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC A new on-line training initiative was launched during the year.
As a result suppliers can now upload training material direct to our intranet systems and all branch staff are now able to access it via the upgraded PC network.
This has improved the effectiveness of product training programmes across the group.
Customer service We have continued to monitor seven key customer service performance indicators, derived from data captured by our information systems, and extended the methodology to monitor suppliers on issues that can assist in improving further our customer service performance.
The information collected is made available in real time to our suppliers via an extranet system, thereby ensuring fast and effective feedback.
Health and safety The company remains committed to achieving and maintaining high standards in health and safety.
Last year two extensive audits of health and safety practice were conducted.
One, our own internal health and safety audit, has resulted in each of our branches now being able to produce a health and safety action plan for the year.
In addition, our Lead Authority, Northampton Borough Council, carried out a detailed review of our health and safety practices and produced a safety management review together with recommendations for improvement.
The conclusions of these audits, together with a detailed analysis of accident causations, will form the basis of our health and safety action plan for 2005 and beyond.
Environment Our environmental management system accreditation to ISO 14001 was maintained during the year.
Over the past three years of our first environmental improvement plan, good progress has been made in reducing adverse impact on the environment, particularly in the areas of timber certification, waste management, volatile organic compound emissions and CO emissions.
A new improvement plan will be produced in the first part of this year and new targets 2 will be set to reduce further our environmental impact.
Timber procurement has continued to be a major focus of attention and we have increased further the percentage of products procured from sources certified to recognised forestry standards.
Chain of custody accreditation for both Forest Stewardship Council FSC and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC schemes has now been achieved for all Travis Perkins and Keyline branches selling timber products.
9 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Future expansion We see significant additional scope for profitable growth of the Travis Perkins, Keyline, CCF and CPS brands through the continued strategy of acquisition of regional groups and independent merchants, and the opening of brown-field sites.
Aggregates Blocks The acquisition of Wickes was announced on 16 December 2004 and, following shareholder Bricks approval and Office of Fair Trading clearance, was completed on 11 February 2005.
This Cement acquisition further strengthens our position in the builders merchant market, as approximately one Drainage third of Wickes sales are to tradesmen, and provides us with a new platform for growth in the UKs Estimating expanding DIY sector.
In addition, we foresee substantial synergy benefits being achieved from services improvements in procurement, logistics, and other process efficiencies.
Roofing materials Timber After another year of good progress, we remain confident of our ability to achieve further growth in the future.
Staff On behalf of the board, I would like to thank all our employees for their contribution to the success of the company during 2004.
Cement mixers Geoff Cooper Chief Executive Gardening 4 March 2005 equipment Hand tools Heaters and dehumidifiers Mini diggers Mini towers Nail guns Protective equipment Power tools Routers Sanders Saws Scaffolding, ladders and steps 10 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The loft conversion takes shape An extensive range of tools are available for hire 11
