Pg 10 Chief Executives statement Furthermore, we achieved all of our stated financial targets as follows: Incremental net cost savings of 23 million, representing annualised savings of 28 million in 2004.
The Group is on track to deliver a minimum of 7 million incremental net cost savings in 2005, contributing to net annualised cost savings of at least 35 million in 2005 The final dividend has been increased by 11.7% which coupled with the increased interim dividend of 7.3% represents an increase in the total dividend of 10.4% Net debt reduced by 154.7 million to 450.4 million 2004 results Two years ago we set out to fundamentally transform the While we surpassed all our financial targets, the six-monthly performance of Trinity Mirror by running the Group more effectively market share performance of the Daily Mirror was disappointing.
and efficiently as a portfolio of publishing businesses.
To improve Although market share stabilised at around 19.5% by the end performance we first needed to lay a rm foundation for future of 2004, it fell by 0.8% during the year.
This was principally growth, principally through a combination of tighter cost as a result of an estimated 3% loss of circulation following management and a more focused publishing approach the publication in May of the fake Iraq prisoner abuse pictures.
In the highly competitive Sunday tabloid market, which is driven This was to be achieved through the implementation of by substantial promotional activity, the Sunday Mirror improved our performance-based strategy Stabilise Revitalise Grow.
its six-monthly average market share from 15.6% to 15.9% The strategy was designed to deliver better performance from while The People lost 0.7% market share from 10.5% to 9.8%.
individual brands and businesses, while increasing the value of the Group by capturing the full benets of scale, sharing Looking forward, maintaining market share for the Groups best practice and ensuring the right level of focus, performance National titles will remain a key focus.
However the emphasis measures and incentives were in place.
will be on building profitability and enhancing shareholder value, rather than maintaining market share at any cost in a market Im delighted to report that in 2004, the first full year of our new characterised by significant price-cutting and marketing activity.
strategy, the Group has delivered signicantly improved results ahead of market expectations.
For the second year running In our Regionals business we continued to focus on operating we have delivered robust profit growth, along with improvements margin as a key growth lever.
A combination of revenue growth, to both margin and revenue growth.
tight cost management and a focus on growth initiatives saw margin improve by 4.2% to 27.9%.
Excluding the additional weeks trading in 2004, the margin improved by 3.9% to 27.6%.
The drive to further improve margin, both through top and bottom line benets, will remain a key area of focus during 2005.
For the second year running we have delivered robust profit growth.
On a like-for-like, pre exceptional items basis as dened in footnotes 1 and 2 on page 17, and including the benefit of the additional weeks trading.
Pg 11 page HEAD Pg 12 Building a platform for growth The last year has been one of substantial change and progress for the Group as we continued to strengthen our financial position while building a robust platform for growth.
In addition to our financial position, we also strengthened our management and operational structures within the core business.
In the Regionals division we appointed a new Managing Director who will manage the business through a newly created Regionals Executive Board.
The Executive Board consists of senior management drawn from within the division and the corporate centre Two new Managing Directors were appointed in the Midlands and in the North West A new senior post of Newspaper Sales Director has been created in the Regionals business to focus on driving and improving circulation performance across the division In the Nationals division, both the UK and Scottish operations are now overseen by a single Managing Director During the year we commenced work on designing a new suite Our print sites have been brought together as a single of training programmes for our senior managers, a key plank network reporting to a new Director of Manufacturing in our strategy of attracting and retaining top talent and integral The central development team was strengthened to ensure to our succession management planning.
The first programme we have the skills and resources to drive further growth focuses on Leadership Development and is designed to equip our senior managers with the skills to successfully lead their businesses In May 2004 we held our second Group-wide senior in what is a highly competitive media environment.
The first two management conference attended by our top 65 managers.
leadership courses were held in November 2004 and February Once again, it proved to be a successful forum for us to meet 2005, with a further programme scheduled for April 2005. as a senior team, to discuss and debate opportunities and challenges, and ensure the necessary performance momentum I am pleased at the progress we have made in increasing our was in place to deliver success in 2004 and beyond.
focus on driving top-line revenues, both in the core business and from developing new activities.
Examples can be seen across the Group and range from the creation of new standard advertising platforms for the Regional titles, significant growth in digital revenues and increased revenues from our Metro titles.
In our Nationals division we achieved year-on-year growth in advertising revenues for the first time since 2000, a significant achievement.
In order to harness the benets of our scale, in 2004 we established a Group-wide Advertising Board, comprising senior Ad Directors from across the business.
The objectives of the Board are to drive higher performance across the advertising function through the sharing of best practice, to co-ordinate sales activity with key clients and to oversee the installation of a common advertising system for the Group which commences roll-out in 2005.
Through various initiatives, including cross-selling between our Regional and National titles, the Advertising Board has already begun to drive incremental revenues.
Pg 13 Circulation revenues benefited both from our continuing policy of increasing cover prices on a little and often basis across the Group, and from a drive for greater efficiencies in the supply chain, covering all newstrade activities from distribution and trade Our 2004 results benefited from increased operational efficiencies marketing through to retail and home delivery.
2004 saw the following completion of the centralisation of our Finance, successful re-negotiation of long-term contracts with our wholesale HR and IT functions.
This has the dual benefit of allowing local partners, for the first time on a Group-wide basis.
We are now management to focus on driving publishing initiatives within their evaluating the potential benets of moving some of our internal markets, while being supported by improved Group management Regional distribution network to our wholesale partners.
Excellent progress was made during the year on the creation A continued focus on cost management underpins our 2004 of our Manufacturing network, bringing together all of our printing results and is now embedded in the corporate culture of the assets into a singly-managed entity reporting to our new Director Group.
This is best demonstrated by the higher than targeted of Manufacturing.
The number of print sites across the Group cost savings achieved in the year.
was reduced from twelve to nine, contributing to better operational efficiencies and signicantly reduced future capital requirements.
Our network approach to Manufacturing has enabled the Group to drive new printing revenues and in particular to secure a new 15-year contract with Guardian Media Group to print its regional titles in the North of England.
The same contract also halved the 45 million capital expenditure requirement for four new full-colour presses in our Oldham print facility.
The creation of the network has also saved a further 30 million of future capital expenditure through the closure of two plants in Hudderseld and Chester.
The newspapers previously printed at these sites are now using print facilities in Oldham, Liverpool, Birmingham and Scotland and have benefited from a switch to tabloid format, with increased colour, making them more attractive to readers and advertisers alike.
Excellent progress was made during the year on the creation of our Manufacturing network.
Pg 14 We have focused attention on driving growth initiatives.
Growth initiatives As the performance of the business has stabilised and improved, we have focused attention on driving growth initiatives, seeking to grow revenues both from the core business and from new products and revenue streams, building on our competencies, market positions and customer relationships.
During 2004 a number of our Regional titles were relaunched Building upon our core competencies and strong market positions, in a new compact format, with benets seen to both circulation we have also begun to explore new activities.
A good example and advertising revenues, including a positive impact on circulation of this approach is The One Directory, a business-to-consumer volumes.
We also successfully launched a new free newspaper directory launched in 2004 in Edinburgh and Glasgow.
The One in Maidenhead in October of 2004.
2005 will see a continued Directorys unique combination of editorial and classied content focus on the management of the portfolio, strengthening our has secured new revenue and delivered profit in its first year.
existing assets and market positions while seeking out new We are now considering further roll-out of this new brand, opportunities to grow.
Our digital activities have been the focus of extensive work Looking forward into 2005 and beyond we shall continue to during this year and will form a key pillar of our strategy improve the core business while seeking new opportunities for going forward.
In our Regionals division we have focused on growth beyond our existing operations, as long as they satisfy becoming a true multi-platform local publishing and advertising our key objective of enhancing shareholder value.
The performance of digital media activities in our Regionals division has been signicantly improved, with strong 2004 was a year of growth and progress.
We look forward revenue growth of 60.5%, and profits seen for the first time to 2005 with confidence.
The Groups commitment to sh4 is beginning to pay real dividends with the recent NORAS survey rating sh4 as the UKs most popular website for job seekers.
The online activities of our Sports division also continued to show good growth, with profits up over 100%.
New digital launches included a Scottish recruitment website, ScotCareers, and a new public sector recruitment website in Wales.
Sly Bailey Operating and financial review Financial highlights Group 17 18 Regionals Nationals 20 23 Sports 27 Magazines and Exhibitions Financial review 29 31 Corporate responsibility 34 Investor Relations report 41 Pg 16 Operating and financial review 2004 was the first full year of our strategy and the Group has delivered significantly improved results.
