Chief Executives Review Our vision is to be an independent oil and gas Group, with a balanced portfolio of Exploration and Production assets.
Our focus is on gas in the UK Southern North Sea and oil in West Africa, with an ongoing appraisal and development programme in South Asia.
Tullow is a focused oil and gas group, with a balanced portfolio of assets and solid cash flow, giving us strong financial capability.
While we have been laying strategic foundations for many years, the Group was transformed during 2004 by acquisitions and development programmes in the UK North Sea and Africa.
It is timely in this context to reflect on Tullows growth strategy and what we believe differentiates us from our peers.
I believe Tullow has unique characteristics which have enabled us to build a strong portfolio of assets and deliver a superior performance.
ENTREPRENEURIAL SPIRIT From its first success in Senegal in the mid eighties to the record $570 million acquisition of Energy Africa in 2004, Tullow has demonstrated a creative and flexible approach to acquisitions and development.
This has positioned the Group well to take advantage of strategic opportunities as major oil companies dispose of assets in mature or established areas of operation, and when exploration and new venture opportunities arise in under-explored regions.
STRONG RELATIONSHIPS We build strong relationships.
We work hard to be good partners, employers and operators in the countries and local communities where we are active.
This is reflected in the strength of our relationships with all our partners and our track record in the areas where we work and contribute.
Our objective is to be the partner of choice in our core areas of operation.
DEVELOPMENT FOCUS Tullow has a strong management team and flat decision-making structures, enabling the Group to review and respond swiftly to any business development opportunities that may arise.
The Tullow team comprises a balanced combination of professional management and industry experts, giving Tullow a depth of expertise and knowledge that enables the Group to deliver added value and strong operational performance from its assets.
8 DIVERSE PORTFOLIO FINANCIAL CAPACITY Tullow has built a diverse portfolio of assets.
The Group operates We have a conservative approach to financing.
Our balance sheet in three strategic core areas, NW Europe, Africa and South Asia.
is healthy with low levels of net debt and the Group has strong The assets are a mixture of oil and gas in mature and developing cash flow.
These factors enable us to fund our growth strategy markets, with a balance between exploration and production.
and maintain a progressive dividend policy.
The strength of this portfolio approach benefits the Group in todays environment of strong global resource pricing and CONSISTENT GROWTH STRATEGY provides protection in the event of a significant economic or The Groups growth strategy has four principal drivers: market shock.
Exploitation and expansion of Tullows current reserve base ACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT A combination of developments and snuggle exploration Our strategy is to focus on those assets where over time we can close to our existing infrastructure, balanced with high impact exert material influence or have control.
Against a background of and higher risk prospects consolidation and development opportunity within the industry, we Selective acquisitions to complement our existing strong continually review our portfolio in relation to Tullows long term footprint within our three core areas of operation, and objectives.
Our aim is to build strong positions in core areas, to consolidate niche positions in developing regions and to dispose Maximisation and consolidation of Tullows existing asset base of assets in which we cannot achieve our objective of material through operational innovation and active portfolio management.
In line with this strategy, Tullow recently agreed to dispose of its offshore assets in Congo Brazzaville OUTLOOK and its Alba and Caledonia assets in the UK.
Today Tullow has more than 90 exploration and production licences in 16 countries and the Groups reserves are over MATERIAL INFLUENCE 320 mmboe.
Quality assets, the current expectation of continued In all of our activities we target a material equity participation strength in oil and gas pricing and our unique characteristics and aligned joint venture partnerships.
In addition, we look for will continue, I believe, to deliver long term growth and superior opportunities with upside exploration and development potential.
Through this we believe we can improve performance and add value with operational innovation, cost reduction and increased production output.
Since the Energy Africa acquisition in May 2004, production from those assets has increased by 20%.
In 2004, our first full year as operator of the Hewett offshore fields and the Bacton Gas Terminal, we achieved a 25% reduction in operating costs whilst maintaining high standards of EHS.
9 Operations Review In 2004 we also reorganised the Groups operational structure Tullow reorganised and on a regional basis to run the enlarged business efficiently and to enhance operational reporting and accountability.
The new strengthened the Groups production and development structure has five business units UK, Gabon, West African Joint Ventures, Kudu and South Asia operational structure in aligned with the Groups three core areas of operation.
Overall, the significant level of achievement at all our operations 2004, integrating Energy in 2004, together with the new organisational structure, delivered increased production and reserves and provides a strong platform Africa and building a strong for future growth and development of the Group.
At year end, the production portfolio comprised 25 fields located in six countries, platform for future growth producing over 56,000 boepd.
2004 TURNOVER BY CORE AREA million % NW EUROPE 116.3 52 AFRICA 107.5 47 SOUTH ASIA 1.5 1 TOTAL 225.3 100 Production and Development 2004 TURNOVER BY SALES AND TARIFF million % 2004 has been an exceptional year for Tullows production and OIL AND GAS SALES 215.8 96 development businesses with the acquisition and integration TARIFF INCOME 9.5 4 of Energy Africa, and the agreement to acquire the operated TOTAL 225.3 100 Schooner and Ketch assets in the UK.
In addition, we invested 69 million in the future production growth of the Group.
Key operational highlights for the year include: 2005 OPERATIONAL OUTLOOK Looking forward, 2005 will be a year of consolidation and delivery NW EUROPE on our enlarged portfolio of assets, while we continue to grow UK The completion of our first year as operator of the and develop the business.
The focus of the production and Hewett-Bacton assets and the sanction of Tullows first development team will be: offshore development, Horne & Wren.
Integration of the Schooner and Ketch assets aquisition completed 31 March 2005 and initiation of the field AFRICA re-developments planned for the end of the third quarter 2005 Gabon From the beginning of 2004 to the end of the first quarter 2005, 15 development wells were drilled, increasing Effective and timely execution of key developments at production by 25%.
Horne & Wren and Munro in the UK, West Espoir in Cte dIvoire, Okume Complex in Equatorial Guinea and MBoundi West Africa Joint Ventures The developments of West Espoir in in Congo Brazzaville Cte dIvoire and the Okume Complex in Equatorial Guinea were sanctioned and a further 28 development wells were drilled.
Completion of the Kudu offshore Namibia FEED in preparation for project sanction Kudu Significant progress was made with the Kudu offshore development plans in Namibia, leading to the award of the Appraisal of the Bangora and Lalmai discoveries in Bangladesh Front End Engineering Design FEED contract to the Wood and the sanction of the Chachar development in Pakistan Group in March 2005.
Continuing to build and diversify Tullows operating activities both organically and through acquisition.
SOUTH ASIA Bangladesh The discovery of the Bangora and Lalmai Tullow clearly recognises the risks associated with an increase gas fields during the year and the development of a 2005 in operational activity and the growing diversification of our asset appraisal programme that includes early gas production.
Throughout the Group we will continue to strive for Pakistan Activities in the area were reviewed and excellence in the EHS and CSR aspects of our businesses, with refocused and good progress was made on the Chachar due consideration for our staff and contractors, local communities field development planning.
10 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 PAUL McDADE AND ADRIAN NEL Going forward the exploration risk-reward profile will be enhanced Exploration by farmouts in the UK North Sea, Romania, Gabon, Equatorial Guinea, Mauritania and in Pakistan.
Tullows exploration strategy is to achieve significant growth in its reserve base at a finding cost appropriate to the various fiscal In 2004, Tullow participated in a total of 16 exploration wells, regimes in which these projects are located and operated.
This nine were drilled in regions where Tullow already has production strategy has three primary components: operations with the remaining seven in Bangladesh, Mauritania, 1 To grow our prospect inventories in areas of relatively low Egypt, Morocco and Uganda.
Of these 16 wells, there were risk where Tullow enjoys a competitive advantage.
These seven discoveries located in the UK, Bangladesh, Gabon, Congo are currently the Southern Gas Basin of the UK North Sea Brazzaville and Equatorial Guinea.
In 2005, Tullow plans to and Gabon, which together account for more than 70% of invest up to 40 million on exploration activities that include 2004 total production.
2004 PRODUCTION BY CORE AREA 2 To expand our prospect inventory in areas with the boepd % possibility to deliver significant reserve growth in the NW EUROPE 20,500 51 medium term.
Tullow will seek equity levels that could provide AFRICA 19,200 47 net reserves of over 20 mmbbl for individual prospects, in SOUTH ASIA 900 2 acreage with upside potential.
Outside the UK and Gabon TOTAL 40,600 100 the drilling programme will target higher risk-reward prospects with significant reserve potential.
2004 COMMERCIAL RESERVES BY CORE AREA 3 To maintain an active new ventures programme to build a mmboe % portfolio capable of yielding significant additional reserves NW EUROPE 36.6 21 in the future.
To achieve this, Tullow is aggressively pursuing AFRICA 120.8 70 new opportunities and accelerating work programmes in SOUTH ASIA 16.0 9 currently held acreage in Gabon and Cte dIvoire.
The Group is also targeting further licence agreements in Pakistan and TOTAL 173.4 100 new acreage in the Ivorian-Ghanian basin and other countries on the West African margin.
Exploration, by its very nature, carries risk and, in addition to the REALISED GAS PRICE 22.9 p therm primary strategies outlined above, Tullow actively manages its REALISED OIL PRICE 34.1 $ bbl exploration risk by farming out interests in licences where value OPERATING COSTS 4.4 boe has been added through geological and geophysical surveys.
11 Operations Review NW Europe The Groups interests in NW Europe are almost exclusively in Development Strategy the UK, where Tullow is active in both oil and gas, with a primary focus on gas in the SNS.
The Group has been involved in the The Group intends to grow as a leading producer and operator SNS since the acquisition of a portfolio of gas assets from BP in of gas in the UK market via: 2001.
Since then, Tullow has materially extended and enhanced Bolt-on acquisitions of assets where Tullow has the technical its position in both the Thames Hewett and CMS areas through and operational expertise to improve efficiency, returns and exploration drilling, active development, participation in licensing overall production output rounds and a series of bolt-on acquisitions.
A further significant step was taken with the completion of the acquisition of the Development of fallow fields where it can apply new Schooner and Ketch assets on 31 March 2005. technologies and take advantage of its ownership in adjacent infrastructure to bring the gas to market In parallel, Tullow has continued to strengthen its operator Snuggle exploration and infill field development to positions with 35% of its production operated in 2004, in enhance production comparison with 25% in 2003.
This will increase substantially in 2005 to over 60% of its production operated, giving Tullow Expansion of third party business to capitalise on the Groups the benefit of greater autonomy in managing its production infrastructure ownership in the area.
The Group targets material equity participation and aligned joint Outside the SNS Gas Basin, the acquisition of Energy Africa venture partnerships.
To enhance overall performance and cash in 2004 added the producing Alba and Caledonia oil fields to flow, Tullows aim is to invest in gas fields that are not fully Tullows portfolio.
Following the successful completion of the contracted to give maximum flexibility to the Groups gas Alba Extreme South development in 2004, and in recognition of marketing activities.
the relatively modest equities held and the Groups strategy of active portfolio management, Tullow took the decision to dispose of these interests.
In April 2005, Tullow agreed to sell its 2004 Review interests in the two fields to ITOCHU Corporation for a total headline consideration of $112 million 59 million.
The Groups UK operations had a very good year highlighted by the sanction of Tullows first operated offshore development, In addition to those divested interests, the Energy Africa portfolio the securing of the Arthur field third party gas for the Thames also provided a number of Northern and Central North Sea oil Pipeline System and the completion of the first year as operator exploration licences.
There is an ongoing programme of work of the Hewett-Bacton Terminal and offshore fields.
The UK on these licences with an objective of commencing exploration operations also achieved full ISO 14001 accreditation with drilling in 2006. certification of the Bacton Terminal.
In 2004, the regional gas market reached a stage where the UK is now a net importer of 12 NORTHERN E NORTH SEA NW EUROPE E EXPLORATION COUNTRY ACTIVITIES PRODUCING TULLOW % FIELDS D DEVELOPMENT United Kingdom P PRODUCTION CMS AREA E D P Boulton 9.50 CMS III 14.10 Ketch 100.00 Murdoch 34.00 Schooner 90.35 THAMES HEWETT E D P Gawain 50.00 AREA Hewett Fields 38.82 Horne & Wren 50.00 Orwell 100.00 Thames Fields 66.67 CENTRAL NORTH SEA E P Alba 8.00 Caledonia 10.06 SOUTH CENTRAL E GRABEN AREA NORTHERN E NORTH SEA E CENTRAL NORTH SEA P Fields due on-stream in June 2005 The sale of these assets was agreed in April 2005 St. Fergus Cruden Bay Aberdeen SOUTH CENTRAL E GRABEN AREA E CMS AREA D P E D THAMES HEWETT AREA Theddlethorpe P 13 Bacton NW Europe The offshore Thames Facilities provide processing, compression PRODUCTION 2004 2003 boepd boepd and export for Tullows Thames Area, Gawain and Orwell fields.
OIL 3,700 30 The long term operating strategy for the Thames Complex GAS 16,800 19,470 facilities is to utilise the considerable processing and compression TOTAL 20,500 19,500 capacity of the facilities for tie-back of surrounding satellite fields.
Considerable work was undertaken on the facilities during the % of Group Total 51% 79% year to prepare for first gas from the third party Arthur field and the start of production from the Tullow operated Horne & Wren development.
TURNOVER 2004 2003 million million Tullows first UK operated development, the Horne & Wren project, TURNOVER 116.3 104.9 is due on stream in June 2005 at a rate of approximately % of Group Total 52% 79% 90 mmscfd.
Tullow first acquired an interest in the Horne & Wren discoveries as part of the assets acquired from BP in 2001 and subsequently entered into a series of deals that resulted in Tullow COMMERCIAL RESERVES 2004 2003 owning 100% of the equity.
In order to manage the risk exposure mmboe mmboe on this project and to align Tullow with an existing partner in OIL 14.6 Thames, part of the equity was sold to Centrica in October 2004.
GAS 22.0 24.8 The Field Development Plan FDP for the project was approved by TOTAL 36.6 24.8 the DTI in October 2004.
The development comprises a normally % of Group Total 21% 35% unmanned installation NUI located between the Horne & Wren discoveries with a single horizontal well drilled into each reservoir.
Both of these development wells were successfully drilled through gas to satisfy indigenous demand and has experienced a the reservoir sections at the end of 2004, and are suspended substantial increase in gas prices, against a background of a pending tie-in to the platform which arrived on site in April 2005. sustained high global resource price environment.
Overall in 2004 The gas will be exported from the NUI via a new 10 pipeline to the NW Europe core area accounted for 52% of Group turnover the Thames platform where it will be processed and compressed and 51% of Group production.
for export to the Tullow operated Bacton Terminal.
THAMES HEWETT AREA The third party Arthur field was brought on stream via the In 2004, Tullow completed its first year as operator of the Thames and Bacton infrastructure at the beginning of January Hewett offshore fields and the Bacton Terminal, achieving both 2005.
The Arthur gas is processed through the Welland facilities an excellent safety record and a 25% reduction in operating following cessation of production from that field.
Tullow also began reviewing drilling opportunities to example of the re-use of such facilities to enable further satellite further enhance the production performance and reserve fields to be developed.
Production from the Arthur field is recovery of the Hewett complex.
14 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 currently around 85 mmscfd and will add incremental tariff in the CMS area.
The gas initially in place GIIP for the Schooner revenues and help to extend the life of both the Thames and Ketch fields is in excess of 1,500 bcf, of which only 350 bcf complex and the Bacton Terminal.
has so far been recovered.
Tullow plans a work programme to substantially increase existing production levels and achieve During the latter part of 2004, the feasibility of tying back the ultimate recovery of 50% of GIIP.
The work programme includes 49 28-14 Thames L discovery to the Thames facilities was working over and sidetracking existing wells and drilling new investigated.
Development plans for this discovery, and further wells to access previously undrained compartments in the fields.
tie-back opportunities, are currently being evaluated.
The A rig has been secured and the drilling and workover activities potential development of the Fizzy discovery was studied are planned to commence on the Ketch field at the end of the in 2004 and development plans are under consideration.
The Group acquired a further 50% of the Orwell field, increasing In addition to the producing assets, the acquisition included Tullows equity to 100%.
This acquisition provides full control of minority interests in the Topaz, Marjan, and 44 27-1 discoveries both the production of this field and the use of this important as well as acreage with attractive exploration upside, principally infrastructure, which lies 4 km from the UK Dutch boundary.
from the Schooner Extension prospect, immediately southeast of the Schooner field.
Tullow plans a fast-track subsurface evaluation nd These development activities are in parallel with plans for the of this prospect and two adjacent 22 Licensing Round blocks.
Groups first operated UK exploration well in 2005 on the Oval It is currently expected that the Schooner Extension prospect Prospect in block 54 1a, which if successful could be tied back will be drilled in early 2006. to existing infrastructure.
Following the success of the Munro exploration well in block CMS AREA 44 17b in March 2004, Tullow is now participating in the The CMS area fields have performed well throughout 2004, fast-track development of this discovery.
Project sanction was and have benefited from the improved performance of the CMS achieved in October 2004, and the development plan is to facilities.
The fifth and final field of the CMS III development, sidetrack the suspended exploration well and tie it back to the Boulton H, commenced production early in 2004.
A number of Tullow owned CMS infrastructure.
The project is on track for first the CMS and CMS III fields have been evaluated for infill drilling gas in October 2005 at an expected rate of around 80 mmscfd.
potential and plans for 2005 include an infill well on the McAdam field, and a workover sidetrack on the Murdoch field, each having Tullow was also involved in exploration activity in the CMS the potential to enhance both production and reserve recovery.
In September 2004, Tullow was awarded nd seven operated blocks in the 22 Licensing Round.
The West The acquisition of the Schooner and Ketch fields, completed in Boulton exploration well is currently being drilled and a further March 2005, brings considerable additional proven producing exploration well on the K3 prospect is planned for the third assets and major development and exploration upside.
If successful, the wells will be tied back to strongly enhances Tullows position in the SNS, and in particular the CMS infrastructure.
15 NW Europe During 2004 Tullow took part in negotiations aimed at increasing First gas from the Horne & Wren development in the second the capacity of the CMS infrastructure to handle low specification quarter of 2005 gas.
This initiative will provide further capacity to process gas, Exploration drilling in both the Thames Hewett and CMS areas which may result from Tullows ongoing exploration programme, rd as well as new third party gas developments.
The Group is Participation in the 23 Licensing Round.
currently in active negotiations with a number of third party field owners on potential future CMS tariff business.
In the Thames Hewett area Tullow will continue to build its equity and operating presence, actively drill and develop reserves and UK OIL ASSETS seek to attract third party business to utilise its infrastructure.
In early 2005 Tullow reached agreement to sell its minority In the CMS Area the Group will continue to build upon its position stakes in the Alba and Caledonia oil fields in the Central North in the region through a combination of field development, Sea as part of the active management of its portfolio of assets.
exploration and infill drilling, licensing rounds, acquisitions In addition to its interests in the Alba and Caledonia oil fields, and third party tariff business.
Tullow also has several exploration licences in both the Central and Northern North Sea.
The recent focus there has been on the Over the past number of years the UK gas market reached the three Tullow operated blocks in the southern part of the Central stage where it is now a net importer of gas to satisfy indigenous Graben.
A major seismic acquisition and reprocessing project in demand.
This resulted in a substantial increase in UK gas 2003 and 2004 resulted in a high quality seismic database, from prices in 2004, a position that is likely to be sustained for the which the Group is now evaluating exploration opportunities with foreseeable future.
While a number of initiatives are currently a view to commencing drilling in 2006.
The operated acreage in planned to increase national supply capability, Tullow believes the North Viking Graben is currently under evaluation, as is a five the prospects for independent producers in the UK gas market block tranche of non-operated acreage in the South Viking Graben.
2005 Operational Outlook The Group has planned an active programme for its UK assets ROMANIA in 2005.
This includes an ongoing programme of cost reduction Tullow also operates two licences in Romania where there and operational innovation and many critical development and is an ongoing exploration programme that includes the exploration initiatives which include: Costisa-1 exploration well, which is currently being drilled.
Commencement of work on the Schooner and Ketch assets 16 17 Operations Review Africa In May 2004 Tullow acquired Energy Africa and this acquisition Tullows strategy is to focus on those assets where opportunities had a major impact on the Groups operations in its Africa exist to exert material influence or control.
Therefore, as part core area.
As part of the integration process, three business of the integration process, Tullow identified that the Congo units were created to manage Tullows considerably expanded Brazzaville offshore assets did not fit with its longer term production and development activities across Africa.
These are strategy and agreement has been reached to sell them to Total the Gabon, West African Joint Ventures and Kudu Business Units.
for a total headline consideration of $72 million 38 million.
GABON KUDU The Gabon Business Unit manages a combination of Tullows Tullow acquired a 90% equity interest and the operatorship of legacy position in Gabon and the portfolio of production, the Kudu development through the Energy Africa acquisition.
development and exploration assets acquired as part of the This giant gas field is located 130 km offshore Namibia and has Energy Africa transaction.
This business unit produces more GIIP of up to 9 tcf.
The Kudu field is being developed as a gas-tothan 30% of the Groups overall production and has interests power project, initially utilising approximately 1 tcf of the gas in in eight producing fields, five exploration licences, two of which place.
Further appraisal of the fields considerable upside are operated, and two potentially commercial undeveloped potential is currently being investigated.
fields, along with back-in options on three exploration licences.
WEST AFRICAN JOINT VENTURES Development Strategy This business unit manages Tullows joint venture production and development activities in: In the Africa core area, there are important development opportunities for Tullow.
Within the region there are significant Congo Brazzaville onshore MBoundi development under-explored areas, major companies are starting to exit the Equatorial Guinea offshore Ceiba field and Okume Complex more mature fields and licensing of some areas and countries has only just begun.
The combined Tullow and Energy Africa Cte dIvoire offshore East Espoir field and West portfolio of assets provides the building blocks to implement Espoir development.
and accelerate the Groups growth strategy in the region.
This strategy is underpinned by strong relationships with partners and Tullow and Energy Africa management and technical teams governments and extensive management and technical know-how.
have been integrated to ensure maximum operational and The Group also has a material competitive advantage with its organisational synergy across these key production and expansive portfolio spanning a number of countries, giving Tullow development assets.
a broad and deep reach to participate where opportunities arise.
18 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report 2004 E EXPLORATION E MOROCCO D DEVELOPMENT P PRODUCTION E EGYPT E MAURITANIA E SENEGAL CTE DIVOIRE E D E P CAMEROON E E D EQUATORIAL GUINEA UGANDA P E GABON E D D P P CONGO BRAZZAVILLE AFRICA COUNTRY ACTIVITIES PRODUCING TULLOW % FIELDS Cameroon E Congo E D P NKossa 4.00 Brazzaville MBoundi 11.00 Cote dIvoire E D P Espoir 21.33 D Egypt E NAMIBIA Equatorial Guinea E D P Ceiba 14.25 Gabon E D P Echira 40.00 Etame 7.50 Limande 40.00 Niungo 40.00 Tchatamba Marin 25.00 Tchatamba South 25.00 Tchatamba West 25.00 Turnix 27.50 Mauritania E Morocco E Namibia D Senegal E Uganda E The sale of this asset was agreed in April 2005 19 Africa The Africa core area growth strategy is to: PRODUCTION 2004 2003 boepd boepd Capitalise on the Groups experience, knowledge, technical OIL 18,800 3,525 expertise and track record gained over 15 years on the ground GAS 400 475 in the region TOTAL 19,200 4,000 Benefit from the opportunities that arise as the major companies % of Group Total 47% 16% change their policies for West African development.
Tullow has a strong set of transferable skills with its track record and experience in the development of its UK gas business TURNOVER 2004 2003 million million Target near-shore development projects and exploration projects TURNOVER 107.5 22.4 of up to 50 million barrels with associated upside potential % of Group Total 47% 17% Work hard to extract additional value from the Groups existing portfolio of assets through operational innovation.
COMMERCIAL RESERVES 2004 2003 As with the UK, the Group targets material equity participation mmboe mmboe and aligned joint ventures, although in the Africa core area the OIL 116.1 17.8 implementation of this is evolving in line with the development GAS 4.7 6.2 of Tullows presence in the region.
TOTAL 120.8 24.0 % of Group Total 70% 34% 2004 Review by 25%, to an average of over 19,000 bopd at the end of the The Groups position in Africa changed dramatically in 2004 as a first quarter 2005. direct result of the Energy Africa transaction and the subsequent integration and enhancement of these assets in the seven In the offshore Tchatamba South field, Tullow participated in an months that followed.
Overall, in 2004 Africa accounted for infill development programme, drilling one well and side-tracking 47% of Group turnover and 47% of Group production.
another to enhance production levels.
As a result, total production from the three Tchatamba fields has been maintained throughout GABON 2004 at a gross level of around 32,000 bopd, halting the This business unit comprises eight producing fields and five declining production trend of previous years.
exploration licences and accounts for over 30% of the Groups overall production.
Production was significantly enhanced during On the onshore Niungo field, 10 development wells were drilled the year due to active development and appraisal drilling and and brought on stream during 2004, almost doubling daily optimisation of production facilities.
This increased net production production to 14,000 bopd by early 2005.
The development and 20 appraisal drilling programme was extended in January 2005 to Kiarsseny blocks in 2005, with further wells likely in early 2006. drill up to five further wells, with the expectation that this will increase both reserves and daily production.
Four of the five WEST AFRICAN JOINT VENTURES wells have been drilled successfully and the first of these This business unit manages the Groups significant joint venture was brought on stream during March 2005. production and development assets in Congo Brazzaville, Equatorial Guinea and Cte dIvoire.
Production from the Etame field, which remained steady at over 14,000 bopd gross during 2003, increased to over 19,000 bopd CONGO BRAZZAVILLE gross following the successful drilling of the Etame-5 development Production from the MBoundi onshore development has well.
Plans are now at an advanced stage for the drilling of a increased from 7,200 bopd in early 2004, when this field was further development well, Etame-6, in mid-2005.
Following a originally acquired by Energy Africa, to in excess of 35,000 bopd.
successful exploration effort in 2004, the Avouma discovery, Three drilling rigs were active throughout 2004 with 16 new wells in which Tullow has a 7.5% back-in right, is now expected to drilled and brought on stream.
The requirement for a fourth rig be granted development approval in April 2005 and to come is currently under review.
To meet the increased production on stream via the Etame facilities by mid-2006.
processing demands, the facilities were initially upgraded to allow production of 40,000 bopd and a further upgrade to In August 2004 Tullow increased its equity in the Limande field 60,000 bopd has recently been completed.
During the year from 20% to 40% in exchange for its 40% interest in the Moukouti 3D seismic data were acquired to define the field which extends and Ganga fields and a cash consideration.
While production from beyond the previous 3D survey.
Interpretation of this data is the Limande field fell somewhat short of expectation during scheduled to begin in mid-2005 and is expected to support the 2004, a workover and a potential new production well are drilling of extensions to the field.
Up to 23 production wells are expected to address this situation in 2005. planned for 2005 as well as pilot projects to investigate and optimise pressure maintenance via water and gas injection.
A successful offshore development well in the Turnix field was completed in 2004, which tapped a previously undrained part of the In 2004 development activity on the offshore NKossa field structure.
This has increased gross field production from a 2004 increased production to 44,400 bpd of oil and LPG through average of 4,500 bopd to in excess of 8,000 bopd in early 2005. an intensive and successful drilling and workover campaign.
A successful appraisal well, Mobim-1 was also drilled in close With the exception of the Avouma discovery, exploration proximity to the existing Moho and Bilondo discoveries and work during the year consisted primarily of the acquisition a revised development plan was submitted to the Congolese and reprocessing of 2D and 3D seismic data on four of the five authorities with an objective of first oil production in 2008. existing exploration licences.
An exploration well drilled on the In addition a successful exploration well KX-2 was drilled on Topaze prospect in the Kiarsseny block found no significant the Lianzi prospect in the K A-IMI Licence.
At present, three further exploration wells equity interests, these offshore assets were not central to the are expected to be drilled on the Tullow operated Akoum and 21 Africa Groups long term strategy in the region and agreements were CTE DIVOIRE entered into to dispose of them in April 2005.
East Espoir production for 2004 averaged 20,200 boepd including gas sales of 11.9 mmscfd.
An upgrade of the facilities, EQUATORIAL GUINEA to increase pressure maintenance via water injection from The Ceiba field produced an average of 36,800 bopd during 60,000 bwpd to 70,000 bwpd was implemented in November 2004, including contributions from three new production wells.
2004 and the benefits are apparent from the recent production At the end of 2004 the field production and injection rates were performance.
A four well infill programme to offset natural decline approximately 40,000 bopd and 110,000 bwpd respectively from was recently initiated and is expected to further increase production 10 producer and five injector wells.
Further investments were during the second half of 2005.
In addition, an agreement to made in the subsea infrastructure to facilitate tie back of future sell a gross 25% interest in the CI-26 gas export pipeline to the injection and production wells planned for 2005.
Development Baobab joint venture was finalised.
drilling is planned to continue throughout 2005 and production is forecast to remain at current levels.
All major contracts for the West Espoir development plan had been awarded by the end of May 2004.
The drilling of five The development plan for the Okume Complex was sanctioned production and two water injection wells is scheduled to follow by the joint venture partners and submitted to the Government in the infill drilling campaign at East Espoir.
The West Espoir mid-2004, with approval received in August 2004.
This complex, facilities will consist of a 12-slot tripod wellhead tower, identical formerly known as Northern Block G, comprises four fields, Elon, to that at East Espoir, and which is currently being constructed in Okume, Ebano and Oveng.
The integrated development plan is Sardinia.
The oil and gas production will be exported 5 km to the based on a combination of two tension leg platforms TLPs, four Espoir FPSO for process and export.
The project is progressing fixed platforms and the drilling of over 40 wells.
Drilling is planned within budget and is on schedule for first oil in April 2006. to commence mid-2006, with first oil production expected at the end of that year.
The project is currently on time and on budget.
In the fourth quarter of 2004, the Acajou 2-X exploration well, targeting a potential northern extension of the 2003 Acajou In 2004 an active exploration programme continued in Block G discovery, was abandoned as a dry hole.
Subsequently, an with two exploration wells, G-17 and G-19, in January and exploitation licence application over the Acajou discovery was November respectively.
G-17 was abandoned while G-19 was submitted to the authorities.
This development proposal envisages a discovery, successfully testing the Akom North satellite a single sub-sea production well tied back 11 km to the East accumulation.
This has now been incorporated in the Okume Espoir FPSO and exported via the existing Espoir facilities.
The Block F and L partners agreed to a joint farmout focusing on several prospects that are shared Tullow had significant success in its efforts to expand its between the two blocks.
At the end of the year this process exploration portfolio in Cte dIvoire with the negotiation and was still in progress.
signing of the CI-107 and CI-108 exploration PSCs in May 2004.
Tullow holds 90% in both permits and will acquire seismic over them during 2005.
22 KUDU 2005 Operational Outlook The giant Kudu gas field was previously considered to be stranded gas but changes in the Namibian and South African In Gabon, numerous opportunities in exploration, development power market resulted in the signing of a Joint Development and production are being examined with a view to enhancing and Agreement and Memorandum of Understanding in July 2004 adding value to the Groups assets.
In 2005 Tullow will actively between Tullow, Namcor, Nampower and Eskom.
During the year pursue a range of new business opportunities and operational the pre-FEED concept selection studies were completed and these performance enhancement programmes, with the goal of becoming defined a subsea development tied back to a Floating Production a significant production operator in Gabon over the coming years.
Vessel or directly to shore as the preferred options.
Since then further significant progress has been made including: The West Africa Joint Ventures business unit will be investing over 70 million or approximately 70% of Tullows 2005 Approval by the Ministry of Mines and Energy of an development capital expenditure budget on significant onshore Environmental Impact Assessment and offshore work programmes.
The highlights of the programme The award of the FEED contract to Wood Group in March 2005 are enhanced production and up to 23 new production wells planned on the MBoundi field, the drilling of further injection Selection of the power station site and associated and production wells on the Ceiba and East Espoir fields, and pipeline and transmission route the West Espoir and Okume Complex developments.
There is Preparation for the submission of the Production Licence also a range of appraisal and exploration activities in progress application which is scheduled for May 2005. to enhance the production and reserve capacity of these assets.
Tullow is currently negotiating the Heads of Agreement for the gas There is an active work programme at Kudu which will continue sales agreement and assessing various financing structures for throughout 2005, with several key milestones targeted during the project.
This work programme will continue throughout 2005 the year.
Overall 2005 is expected to be an exciting year for the with a final investment decision targeted for early 2006.
As the phase one Kudu gas-to-power project will only utilise around 1 tcf of the potential 9 tcf of GIIP, Tullow has initiated further studies to determine the optimum development options for the additional gas resources.
The outcome of these studies will determine the appraisal drilling programme, planned for 2006.
23 Operations Review South Asia Tullow has been active in South Asia since 1990 when the Group Establishing a larger exploration portfolio with the objective signed its first licence in Pakistan.
Tullow started gas production of drilling high impact prospects there in 1999 and at present is assessing potential opportunities Targeting the growing regional energy demand.
for further development of existing discoveries, combined with an ongoing exploration and new venture programme.
PRODUCTION 2004 2003 boepd boepd Tullow has had exploration interests in Bangladesh since 1997.
OIL In April 2001 the Group signed the onshore Block 9 PSC and in GAS 900 1,300 2004 made two gas discoveries.
First gas production is expected TOTAL 900 1,300 in 2005, in parallel with an appraisal programme to determine the full reserve potential.
% of Group Total 2% 5% The main area of focus for the Group in India is in the Cambay Basin, immediately south of recent discoveries in Rajasthan, TURNOVER 2004 2003 where Tullow has a 50% interest in the CB-ON-1 block.
million million Reappraisal of existing seismic data and the acquisition TURNOVER 1.5 2.3 of new seismic data is scheduled for 2005.
% of Group Total 1% 2% Development Strategy RESERVES 2004 2003 mmboe mmboe In 2004 Tullow undertook a strategic review of its South OIL Asia core area to ascertain options for the development of GAS 16.0 21.4 this region, in the context of the newly enlarged Group and the TOTAL 16.0 21.4 major gas discoveries in Bangladesh during the year.
Given the % of Group Total 9% 31% Groups history in and knowledge of the area, Tullow believes that considerable opportunities exist in South Asia and that further growth can be achieved by: 2004 Review Capitalising on the Groups extensive acreage where there is major exploration potential 2004 was an exciting and challenging year in South Asia with a strategic review of operations and two important gas Progressing existing development and appraisal projects discoveries.
Overall this core area accounted for 1% of Group turnover and 2% of Group production in 2004.
24 E D P PAKISTAN E D E BANGLADESH INDIA E EXPLORATION D DEVELOPMENT P PRODUCTION SOUTH ASIA COUNTRY ACTIVITIES PRODUCING TULLOW % FIELDS Bangladesh E D India E Pakistan E D P Sara 38.18 Suri 38.18 25 South Asia This programme involves a long term test on the Bangora-1 PAKISTAN discovery, that will deliver gas into the market, acquisition of In 2004, production from the Sara and Suri fields in Pakistan 2D and 3D seismic data as well as a multi-well drilling campaign.
declined and the Sara-1 well ceased to produce.
During the year, This programme will establish the extent and productivity of Tullow conducted reservoir simulation studies to identify potential the reservoirs and ultimate reserve potential.
opportunities for further development drilling on the two fields and the results of those studies are currently being analysed.
In Blocks 17 and 18, Tullow secured an additional two year extension to the PSC and this licence now expires in May 2006.
Tullow also reviewed its plans for the Sara West discovery during Additional technical work has been carried out and integrated the year, and found that under the existing licence terms any into the regional geological framework.
Tullow has recently signed development was unlikely to be commercial.
As a result discussions a Memorandum of Understanding with a prospective are currently under way with the Government and other parties, partner and discussions are ongoing.
to determine if an alternative approach has the potential to commercialise this discovery.
INDIA The main area of focus for the Group in India is on block CB-ON-1, The development plan for the Chachar field in Pakistan is situated in the Cambay Basin within Gujarat State, immediately currently being finalised following development approval from the south of the recent substantial discoveries in the Sanchor Basin Government for production of up to 30 mmscfd.
Sales from the in Rajasthan.
In April 2005 Tullow obtained Government approval field are expected to commence in early 2006. to acquire a 50% interest in the block.
Reprocessing of existing seismic and evaluation of existing well data commenced in 2004 There was also considerable exploration and new venture activity and acquisition of new seismic data is scheduled for 2005. in Pakistan in 2004.
This included the acquisition of seismic data on the Nawabshah block with drilling expected in the third quarter of 2005.
These seismic data will facilitate evaluation of several 2005 Operational Outlook leads which are on trend with the discoveries on adjacent acreage.
Evaluation of the potential of the New Block B continued and 2005 is expected to be a year of good progress for the South negotiations to commence work in Block 28 are ongoing.
The objective in Pakistan is to bring Chachar to new venture activity also resulted in the recent award of the development sanction and to review the further development Kohat exploration block.
potential of Sara and Suri, while continuing to focus on establishing a high impact exploration portfolio.
In Bangladesh BANGLADESH Tullow has an extensive appraisal programme planned for 2005 In Bangladesh there was intense activity in Block 9.
A three well which includes early production from Bangora-1, the acquisition drilling programme resulted in two discoveries Bangora-1 and of new 2D and 3D seismic data and the planning of appraisal Lalmai-3 and one dry hole, Rasulpur.
An appraisal programme drilling on the Bangora and Lalmai discoveries.
In India, the for the discoveries, which are 40 km apart and on the same Group will continue the technical evaluation of CB-ON-1.
structural feature, was submitted and approved by the Government.
26 The Lalmai discovery, in eastern Bangladesh, is located on a hilltop.
Prior to drilling the only access was an earthen track, which passed through a mahogany tree plantation.
In order to give equipment access to the well site, the earthen track was widened and resurfaced, with the minimum of tree felling.
The local community and relevant Government departments approved all the work carried out, and the trees felled during the process were donated to the local mosque.
More than 100 local people were employed during the construction and upgrading phases.
Longer term the overall area will benefit from the improved access.
