10 Chief Executives Review Clive Hollick Chief Executive By any measure the financial results for 2004 were impressive consolidation and growth opportunity might lie outside the revenues, profits, margins, cash flow and dividends were all group and be achieved through a sale on terms which well ahead of the previous year.
Strong economic growth in ensure that our shareholders receive the full measure of the US, UK and Asia all helped, but the successful investment these combination benefits.
If we are successful in achieving in new products and our push into new markets is delivering this outcome at NOP a business we have steadily built up steady, sustainable revenue growth.
over the last 20 years our shareholders can expect to receive a substantial part of the value released through a The hard work put in over the last few years to improve return of capital.
productivity across the board, to invest in innovation and to offer our clients a greater range of products in print, events Malcolm Wall and I are both bowing out of United after or online is boosting our market shares, improving yields and many hugely enjoyable, challenging and generally successful lifting margins.
The increasing investment in both years.
We are proud of the business we have helped to build acquisitions and organics is delivering an excellent return and grateful to our colleagues, customers and shareholders and providing the group with a more stable and predictable for their support and encouragement.
David Levin joins as mix of profits.
Technology print revenues are still in modest CEO in April with an illustrious record and a fine reputation.
decline, but the 30 per cent growth online is an important He will lead a fine team, brimful of talent and ideas.
The pointer to the potential in this sector.
Healthcare is now one businesses are in great shape and in 2004 demonstrated of our largest sectors and, with signs of a good recovery in their ability to deliver outstanding results.
continuing medical education in the US, is set to be a key I would like to pay a most heartfelt tribute to all of my profit driver in the next few years.
The growth in our colleagues and friends right across the group for your construction and built environment sector in the UK is a text tremendous achievements, not only in 2004 but, in many book example of driving for operating excellence, and at the cases, stretching over decades.
I have had the privilege of same time investing in and integrating successfully several witnessing at first hand the pride, the determination and the key acquisitions.
PR Newswire has also made important passion you have brought to your business.
I have productivity gains in its core business, invested well to experienced the thrill and the fun of working with you to launch new products and turned its loss making help to build those businesses.
I enjoyed every minute of it international business into profit.
and for that I thank you all.
The year has started well, order books are healthy and the pursuit of new growth opportunities through greater investment is being vigorously pursued.
Further offshoring and outsourcing will bring useful margin gains over the coming years.
In all of our businesses we are seeking to use our financial strength and proven ability to invest and acquire successfully to pursue growth through consolidation and greater product and geographic coverage.
Usually this will be pursued within our group, but sometimes, as in the case of NOP, the most compelling 11 BY ANY MEASURE THE FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2004 WERE IMPRESSIVE revenues, profits, margins, cash flow and dividends were all well ahead of the previous year.
Strong economic growth in the US, UK and Asia all helped, but the successful investment in new products and our push into new markets is delivering steady, sustainable revenue growth.
I HAVE EXPERIENCED THE THRILL AND THE FUN of working with you to help to build those businesses.
I enjoyed every minute of it and for that I thank you all.
I WOULD LIKE TO PAY A MOST HEARTFELT TRIBUTE TO ALL OF MY COLLEAGUES AND FRIENDS RIGHT ACROSS THE GROUP FOR YOUR TREMENDOUS ACHIEVEMENTS, NOT ONLY IN 2004 BUT, IN MANY CASES, STRETCHING OVER DECADES.
I HAVE HAD THE PRIVILEGE OF WITNESSING AT FIRST HAND THE PRIDE, THE DETERMINATION AND THE PASSION YOU HAVE BROUGHT TO YOUR BUSINESS.
