Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review achieving high quality growth DURING 2004, ULTRA 12.4% 15.5% INVESTED A TOTAL OF Sales Profits 44 MILLION IN Reecting increased battlespace and Profits before tax and goodwill ACQUISITIONS, RESEARCH airport IT activity and deliveries of amortisation increased by 15.5% to equipment for military vehicles 39.7m 2003: 34.4m AND DEVELOPMENT, CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND NEW BUSINESS increase in earnings per share to 44.1p 44.0m 2003: 37.8m in acquisitions, resources to implement its strategy for the DEVELOPMENT.
research and development, capital foreseeable future.
expenditure and new business development.
Operating cash ow was again excellent at 2004 ACQUISITIONS The benefits of such investments include a 46.9m 2003: 48.3m.
Conversion of The Group made two acquisitions in 2004, direct effect on the winning of new operating profit to operating cash ow DNE Systems Inc. DNE and Videcom for a contracts in the year and also a contribution was 111%, giving an average conversion over total cash cost of 23.3m, financed using to the Groups long-term positioning for the last five years of 106%.
Net debt at the Ultras existing banking facilities.
year end reduced to 23.2m 2003: 30.3m DNE strengthens Ultras tactical despite investing 23.3m after expenses on In Ultras largest markets, the UK and US communications capability within the two acquisitions during the year.
In addition, defence sector, there is a growing emphasis battlespace IT sector and is now part of the the Group invested 20.7m 2003: 19.5m in on electronic systems for military platforms, Tactical & Sonar Systems division of Ultra.
research & development, capital expenditure battlespace IT and homeland security.
The Based in Wallingford, Connecticut, USA, and new business development.
Interest paid businesses acquired by Ultra in recent years DNE provides specialist equipment to was covered 15 times by operating profit.
operate mainly in these growth sectors.
Ultra facilitate the transmission of data over is well placed to benefit from this market Ultra had net current liabilities at the year end satellite and terrestrial radio links and to growth by continuing successfully to develop of 33.9m compared with net current assets achieve interoperability between commercial innovative solutions to meet customer needs.
The Groups and military communication interfaces for banking facility matures in December 2005, In the civil air transport sector the recovery of modern and legacy systems.
with 48.1m 2003: nil of the loan therefore the aftermarket and the increase in orders Videcom, now co-located at our facility in Investment falling due within one year.
In preliminary and production schedules for civil aircraft Loudwater, Buckinghamshire, UK, has a discussions, all of the banks providing Ultras continues as passenger numbers rise.
Demand strong capability in airport IT systems and strategy existing facility have expressed a desire to for airport IT systems is seeing strong growth, complements Ultras product portfolio with participate in a future arrangement.
The Board driven by investment in new airport facilities Ultra invests to broaden its portfolio of flight check-in, aircraft passenger seat is confident that new funding arrangements both in the UK and overseas.
In the UK rail products and capabilities allocation, baggage reconciliation and will be secured in a timely manner.
sector, following recent rapid growth, activity departure control systems.
The products are is expected to reduce in 2005.
Worldwide, There was a 5.4% increase in the Groups used in a wide variety of airports around the however, investment in mass transit system order book in the year, with a closing value world and Videcom has a presence in the infrastructure is increasing as a solution to Ultra made excellent progress in 2004, contracts in 2004 that will support the There was a further increase in the Groups of 395.4m, maintaining historic levels of rapidly growing Chinese market.
achieving high growth in sales and profits.
continued progress of the Group.
operating margin to 13.3% 2003: 13.2%, firm order cover for the coming year and benefit by offering the combined range of The three acquisitions made in the second driven mainly by a combination of increased providing in total equivalent cover of Ultras confidence in its ability to deliver products to its airline and airport customers.
GROUP RESULTS half of 2003 performed well and the volume, effective execution of development approximately 14 months of future sales.
growth is underpinned by a number of key Sales increased to 320m, a rise of 12.4% AIRCRAFT & VEHICLE SYSTEMS Groups investment in two further contracts and a continuing focus on cost factors.
The Group has achieved year-on-year over the prior year, and this was achieved INVESTING IN GROWING MARKETS Aircraft & Vehicle Systems comprises five acquisitions during 2004 strengthens Ultras control.
Operating profit rose by 13.1% to success despite significant changes in despite the significant weakening of the Ultras continuing success is driven by its businesses in the UK and US that supply position in the growth sectors of battlespace 42.5m 2003: 37.5m, while profit before foreign exchange rates and whilst US dollar.
At constant currencies, sales investment strategy.
Ultra invests in order to advanced technology products and software IT and airport systems.
In 2004 the Group tax and goodwill amortisation increased by experiencing full market cycles in both the growth reached 17%, of which 9% was deliver growth, either within existing for military aircraft and land vehicles and underpinned its position in its key sonobuoy 15.5% to 39.7m 2003: 34.4m.
A slightly civil aerospace and defence sectors.
The main drivers of the organic businesses or through the acquisition of also for civil aerospace markets.
and civil aerospace activities with the lower effective tax rate for the Group of risks will continue to be mitigated through increase were higher battlespace and airport businesses that complement and broaden signing of ten year sole source agreements.
26.0%, due partly to additional UK R&D tax robust business strategies.
Further, Ultra has Sales in the division increased by 2.6% to IT activity and deliveries of equipment for the Groups portfolio of products and Ultra also won a broad range of new credits, helped the Group achieve a 15.4% access to adequate financial and human 81.9m 2003: 79.9m.
During 2004, Ultra invested before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m before goodwill amortisation after capital expenditure and Long-Term Incentive Plan share purchase 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review 395m 111% Success 15.4% Order book Cash performance Ultras proven strategy underpins Earnings per share Maintaining historic levels of firm Operating cash ow was again further progress for the Group Earnings per share was 15.4% order cover for the coming year excellent at 46.9m 2003: 48.3m.
higher at 44.1p 2003: 38.2p Conversion of operating profit to operating cash ow was 111% THE GROUPS INVESTMENT IN TWO FURTHER ACQUISITIONS DURING 2004 STRENGTHENS ULTRAS POSITION IN THE GROWTH SECTORS OF BATTLESPACE IT AND AIRPORT SYSTEMS.
was 14.7m 2003: 13.9m giving an INFORMATION & POWER SYSTEMS contracts were secured in the UAE The Groups Surface Ship Torpedo Defence situational awareness, quicker command and products and in the acquisition of operating margin of 17.9% 2003: 17.4%.
Information & Power Systems, with the and for commercial ports in the US to system entered service with the Royal Navy control, and the synchronisation of military complementary businesses is expected to be integration of Videcom into the Airport improve homeland security.
There was a on schedule during the year and a contract effects with much improved accuracy.
funded from internal cash generation, unless The continuing recovery in air travel since the Systems business, consists of seven businesses high level of contract manufacturing for a torpedo defence technology Modern armed forces must be equipped to a truly compelling acquisition opportunity terrorist attacks of September 2001 drove the that supply information management and activity where deliveries of battlespace IT demonstrator programme for the US Navy allow the rapid deployment of light, mobile demanding additional finance arises.
The launch of new aircraft development power products for defence, commercial and equipment for the British Army Bowman was also secured.
Both Lockheed Martin and troops and to be able to exploit superior Boards prime objective is to outperform the programmes, an increase in build rates on airport applications worldwide.
General Dynamics have selected Ultras intelligence of the military situation through market in terms of annual increases in existing programmes and a rise in aftermarket torpedo defence system for the US Navys the use of battlespace IT.
shareholder value by delivering above support activity during 2004.
An important Sales increased in the division by 21.1% to Rolls-Royce placed an important order for Littoral Combat Ship.
average annual increases in earnings.
achievement in the year was the selection of 115.6m 2003: 95.5m of which 12.7% the development of a replacement control The perceived terrorist threat to individuals Ultra to supply two sub-systems on the was organic.
Operating profit increased system for the nuclear reactors that power Sales of battlespace IT equipment and to economically important assets The outlook for the Group remains Boeing 787 Dreamliner aeroplane.
The the Royal Navys submarines.
In the mediumcontributed to the growth of this division, together with the need to protect borders encouraging although in 2005 there will be will be the integrator and supply the operating margin was 12.8%, an increase term, this is expected to lead to further with deliveries of high capacity radios to the and coastlines from illegal immigrants some impact on sales and profit due to the electronic controls for the system that from 11.5% in the prior year.
orders for production and long-term support.
US Army for its Patriot missile defence and smugglers are driving an increase in weakness of the US dollar.
However, current provides electro-thermal ice protection for the systems and network access equipment for global demand for surveillance and market conditions together with recent The airport IT systems business achieved an TACTICAL & SONAR SYSTEMS wings of the 787.
In addition, Ultra teamed all the US armed services.
The award to Ultra enforcement systems.
acquisitions and contract awards provide the excellent performance which contributed Tactical & Sonar Systems, with the addition with Goodrich to provide the proximity in the UK of a contract from the US Navy for foundations for future growth.
The Board significantly to the growth of the division.
of DNE, comprises seven businesses in the With its range of niche businesses, Ultra is well sensing equipment for the 787 passenger the development of specialist cryptographic has confidence in the continued progress of Development work on the IT infrastructure UK and North America that supply tactical placed to benefit from these market forces.
cabin, cargo and landing gear doors.
Sales equipment is expected to contribute to the Group in 2005. for BAAs Terminal 5 at Heathrow Airport communications and underwater warfare In civil markets, aerospace is continuing to of these systems should commence in 2008, future growth as contracts for production proceeded well and Ultras flight information equipment to military users worldwide.
recover with both Airbus and Boeing ahead of the 787 entering service in 2009. items are secured.
This is the first time the display system was selected by BAA to be Sales in the division increased to 122.1m forecasting increased build rates, leading to US government has contracted offshore for Sales of Ultras HiPPAG for the US Navys used throughout all its operations.
further growth in original equipment sales the development of such equipment.
F A-18 E F Super Hornet aircraft achieved the airport IT system at Kansas City, for which Operating profit increased 2.7% to 13.0m and after-market support.
The growth in air record levels.
The development of HiPPAG Ultra is the integrator, neared completion and MANAGEMENT CHANGES 2003: 12.7m giving an operating margin traffic is strong, driving new airport variants for use in the munitions ejection the installation of an integrated suite of As noted in the Chairmans Statement, it of 10.7%.
At constant currencies the sales construction and refurbishment with systems of both the US Small Diameter airport IT at Oakland, California, provides is planned that the management changes growth was 19.9% and the operating profit increasing demand for airport IT systems.
Julian Blogh, Chief Executive Bomb programme and the F-35 Joint Strike another showcase for Ultras systems described last year will come into full growth was 19.2%.
Investment in rail transport and mass transit Fighter aircraft proceeded to plan.
UltraTrak, the effect after the Annual General Meeting on systems that require specialist power As anticipated, the level of sales of sonobuoys world-leading passenger baggage 22 April 2005.
Peter Macfarlane will retire In the US, Ultra is supplying its joysticks and equipment continues, although in the UK in the year was broadly unchanged from reconciliation system, was selected for all the from the Board at that time, having been related cockpit equipment for a large this will be at a lower level than experienced 2003.
Sales of anti-submarine warfare mission international airports in New Zealand, Chairman since 1994, and I will take over number of different types of unmanned in recent years.
system equipment were also at as deliveries building on the managed service provision the role.
On behalf of the Board I thank aerial vehicles and for many variants of Outlook to the RAF Nimrod programme ended.
One of Following its successful 2004, Ultra enters now operating successfully at Heathrow and Peter for his excellent contribution to the vehicle within the Future Combat System the highlights of the year was securing a 2005 with a strong balance sheet and a in Australia, as well as in the US.
development of Ultra, and we wish him well Current market conditions coupled programme.
In the UK, deliveries to BAE long-term, sole source partnering contract record order book.
Its proven strategy of in his retirement.
Douglas Caster, currently with recent acquisitions and contract Systems of the indirect vision equipment for The division benefited from a rise in with the UK Ministry of Defence for the providing niche products, being a responsive Chief Operating Officer will succeed me as awards provide the foundations for the Engineer Tank System and development government expenditure on battlespace IT supply and support of all the UKs sonobuoys.
and competent supplier and achieving Chief Executive.
future growth activity on the crew controls for the British which resulted in new sales and upgrades Ultras dominance of the sonobuoy export growth, both organically and through Armys Terrier combat engineering vehicle of the latest version of the ADSI data link PROSPECTS market continued with exports to France, acquisition, underpins further progress for progressed to plan.
processor and situational awareness In Ultras main defence markets, expenditure is Canada, Australia and Korea.
Ultras investment in new system.
Radar coastal surveillance system increasing on battlespace IT to enable better before goodwill amortisation before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m after capital expenditure and Long-Term Incentive Plan share purchase 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Chief Executives Review AIRCRAFT & VEHICLE SYSTEMS achieving success on major programmes Ultra will supply equipment worth about $100,000 on each Boeing 787 aircraft ULTRA WILL PROVIDE A NEW APPROACH TO WING ICE PROTECTION THAT INCREASES THE EFFICIENCY OF THE BOEING 787 DREAMLINER AIRCRAFT.
Ultra derives a long-term benefit from its nose of the missile.
This track record of single source position on programmes and success comes from HiPPAGs position on platforms.
Typical project lifecycles can exceed aircraft such as the US Navys F A-18E F Super fty years.
In 2004, Ultra was successful in Hornet where the in-service performance of positioning its unique products, services and HiPPAG in recent and continuing operations systems on a number of key new programmes.
Ultra continued through the year to develop a variant of HiPPAG for Ultra was selected by Boeing to supply key Boeings Small Diameter Bomb programme elements of the Wing Ice Protection System for which it will provide the permanently WIPS on its new 787 Dreamliner aircraft, available energy source for launching smart for which over 140 orders were booked by or individually targetted munitions.
Ultra will be the system integrator for WIPS which provides a new In modern warfare, there is an increasing Highlights approach to wing ice protection that increases focus on the use of unmanned vehicles for air, the operating efficiency of the aircraft.
Ultra land and sea operations.
However, these Within Ultras aircraft and vehicle leads a team including GKN Aerospace and vehicles still need to be controlled.
systems activities, successes in 2004 Thermion Systems that has been working with Throughout 2004 Ultra has continued to included the following Boeing for over two years to demonstrate upgrade its advanced ground based cockpit Long-term agreement with Airbus that Ultras innovative solution meets Boeings control system for the Predator B unmanned extended to secure Ultras position demanding requirements.
This virtual cockpit incorporates on single-aisle and long-range a number of Ultras new and innovative aircraft for at least 10 years Ultras success with WIPS on the 787 aircraft technologies that improve the humanadds to Boeings earlier selection of a team of Ultras Internet-based collaborative computer interface and make piloting the Goodrich and Ultra to supply the proximity working environment endorsed by Predator easier.
Many similar products have sensor system for the same aircraft.
This a contract from the UK Government also been adopted for use on the various Communications Head Quarters system monitors the position of the aircrafts armoured vehicles within the US Armys doors, thrust reversers and landing gear.
Ultras innovative virtual cockpit Combined with WIPS, the value to Ultra for for the Predator B unmanned aerial each 787 aircraft is about $100,000.
Ultra has been selected to develop advanced vehicle provides realistic responses electronic control systems for new armoured to pilot inputs The successful reputation of Ultras innovative vehicle turrets being designed by CTAI, a HiPPAG airborne compressor continues to be General Dynamics, Boeing and joint venture company owned by BAE enhanced.
The Lockheed Martin programme United Defense all selected Ultra Systems and by GIAT in France.
Ultras director for a missile development programme equipment for the US Armys Future success was aided by the excellent Combat System programme said We selected Ultra to provide critical reputation that the Group has achieved in cooling for the seeker because HiPPAG has a Ultra supplies equipment worth delivering a range of equipment for the UK proven track record and offers a low-risk, over 200,000 on every Eurofighter Bowman communications programme.
In this application, Typhoon aircraft HiPPAG will generate a constant supply of pure air to cool the infra-red seeker in the Ultra provides the Predator B virtual cockpit Ultra equipment is tted to modern armoured vehicles Ultras HiPPAG is tted to F A-18 aircraft 08 08 Ultra Electr Ultra Electronics Holdings plc onics Holdings plc Ultra Electr Ultra Electronics Holdings plc onics Holdings plc 09 09 Image courtesy of US DoD Image courtesy of US DoD Image courtesy of Boeing Chief Executives Review INFORMATION SYSTEMS achieving success through effective solutions 010 1011010 Ultra has a presence in the vibrant Chinese market for airport IT systems 0110 011101 101 CONTRACTS WON BY ULTRA IN 2004 DEMONSTRATE CUSTOMER CONFIDENCE IN THE GROUPS ABILITY TO DELIVER EFFECTIVE SOLUTIONS AROUND THE WORLD.
Ultras advanced integrated Information Airports are complex operations and a Technology systems support the efficient and continuing focus on safety and security is safe operation of modern airports worldwide.
In addition to the security derived With passenger numbers rising, many airports from the positive matching of passengers and are upgrading their systems to cater for the baggage, achieved through the use of increase in traffic.
In 2004, Ultras airport IT UltraTrak, vigilance must also be exercised on business continued the strong growth that access control and surveillance systems.
Ultra was evident in 2003. was selected in 2004 to supply a combined radar and electro optical surveillance system Ultra successfully operated its UltraTrak for a major US airport.
Ultra is able to provide passenger baggage reconciliation and either a local solution such as this or a much matching system at Londons Heathrow larger integrated coastal and border system, airport throughout 2004, meeting the as demonstrated by the Group also winning Highlights required availability and reliability levels whilst a contract to supply a system linking over handling over 25 million items of baggage.
Within Ultras information systems 20 radar sites in a Middle Eastern country.
Building on this success, Ultra delivered an activities, successes in 2004 included UltraTrak solution for a number of different Ultra has a world leading ability to provide the following airports in Australia and was then selected highly cost effective surveillance systems Rolls-Royce awarded Ultra a contract later in the year to supply a similar service for able to detect very small targets using to develop a new high-integrity several international airports in New Zealand.
Global demand control system for nuclear reactors These wins demonstrate customer confidence for such solutions is increasing, driven by for Royal Navy submarines in Ultras ability to deliver effective solutions the need for military security or by the The latest software upgrade for around the world.
desire to protect, and to maintain the safe Ultras ADSI product was operation of, economically important assets In 2004, Ultra acquired the airline and airport successfully certified, triggering an such as oilfields and fishing areas.
IT systems business of Videcom.
This increase in sales of upgrades broadened Ultras range of products and Ultras Magicard range of ID card printers are Ultras world-class tactical data fusion applications in the sector and widened the used extensively as part of access control product, ADSI, is being developed geographic spread of the customer base.
Controlling access to sites is a key for airborne applications, thereby Videcom brought to Ultra a successful contributor to personal safety.
In 2004, increasing its potential market operation in the vibrant Chinese market.
With Ultras range of Magicard printers was BP selected Ultra to supply a radar the enhanced range of offerings, Ultra is augmented and new models introduced that surveillance system to enhance better able to address the growing need for provide additional features whilst continuing safety at its operations in the flexible airport IT check-in and support systems to offer as standard Ultras unique North Sea that can be shared between a number of holographic anti-counterfeiting technology.
Ultra has invested in quadrupling different airlines, including start-up, low cost The new printers allow ever-smaller the capacity of its contract operations.
Demonstrating the successful organisations to afford an access control and electronics manufacturing activity integration of the enlarged business, the first security solution using customised ID badges in the last two years contract utilising the combined capability was for all authorised personnel.
won for Montgomery Airport in the US only Ultra provides oileld surveillance systems Ultras enhanced Magicard ID printers Ultras coastal surveillance systems three months after the acquisition.
10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Chief Executives Review POWER SYSTEMS achieving success through exploiting technologies Ultras modelling capability optimised the design of a ships fide-magnetising system THE USE OF ULTRAS MODELLING CAPABILITY RESULTS IN A SYSTEM THAT IS LIGHTER AND MORE COST-EFFECTIVE THAN PREVIOUSLY POSSIBLE.
Ultra successfully shares technologies Ultras technologies transfer both ways between the US and the UK.
In its naval across the Atlantic.
Key elements of the electrical power businesses, for example, the signature management equipment supplied ability accurately and quickly to model a in the year for the Royal Navys new Type 45 ships magnetic signature during the design destroyer were designed and built by Ultra in phase has been transferred from the UK to the US.
Conversely the Group achieved a the US.
Consequently, whether a new ship is breakthrough in 2004 with its UK submarine being designed in the US or the UK, Ultra electrical power management technology personnel can work alongside the ships being purchased for the US Navys USS design team concurrently to optimise the Dolphin submarine.
vessels signature and the associated control In the UK, Ultra is developing an innovative system.
Uniquely, Ultra is able to take electric start system for ships gas turbines.
This responsibility from the outset of the project Highlights is being developed to meet the similar needs of for achieving the predicted signature levels.
both the Royal Navy and the US Navy.
Within Ultras power systems Ultras modelling capability and the resulting activities, successes in 2004 included In 2004, Ultra delivered the fourth boat set of installed system maximise the protection of the following specialised power equipment for the Virginia the ship from magnetically triggered mines.
class of submarine, the first of which entered As Londons Docklands Light This is especially important as modern service with the US Navy in the year.
Reecting Railway is extended, Ultra provides conflicts are increasingly likely to require more of its specialist transit system Ultras success on the programme, a multi-year naval operations in shallow, cluttered coastal power supplies contract was negotiated, covering the waters where the mine threat is at its equipment for an additional five boats.
This Ultra will supply the fide-magnetising highest.
The use of this modelling capability arrangement improves the visibility of business system for the UKs new aircraft also results in a system installed on board for Ultra on the Virginia class submarines, for carriers and will work with the ship that is lighter and more cost effective than designers to optimise the system which further boats are planned.
Investment in Network Rails Ultras ability to provide its customers with Southern Region power supplies the maximum stealth for its ships has is now a continuing process of helped successfully to position the Group asset renewal on a number of key programmes.
In the US, In 2004, Ultra delivered its specialist Ultra is working both on the Deepwater naval power supplies for the fourth coastguard vessel programme and on the US Navy Virginia and for the third Littoral Combat Ship, a design specifically Royal Navy Astute submarines intended to support shallow water Ultras new electric starting system operations.
This success extends for naval gas turbines successfully internationally with a position on a new completed initial testing during Spanish naval vessel, the BPE amphibious the year assault ship.
Ultra is developing equipment for the US Navy LCS programme Ultra supplies power equipment for submarines Ultras equipment fide-magnetises the Type 45 destroyer 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Image courtesy of US DoD Image of USS Dolphin courtesy of US DoD Image courtesy of BAE Systems Chief Executives Review TACTICAL SYSTEMS achieving successful network solutions Ultra supplies equipment to improve the efficiency of military satellite data links ULTRA PROVIDES A WORLD CLASS CAPABILITY TO FUSE TOGETHER INPUTS FROM MANY DIFFERENT MILITARY SENSORS AND DATA LINKS.
In modern day conflicts, the side that most systems that may use different data formats, successfully manages the timely flow of including those used by allied and coalition Highlights high-quality battlespace information is likely partners.
DNEs protocol converters, voice to have a decisive edge.
Ultra is constantly and data multiplexers and multi-service Within Ultras tactical systems activities, successes in 2004 included investing to create new battlespace IT access concentrators allow this to happen.
the following products that help deliver that advantage.
DNEs products are another key link in the Ultras innovative data link Ultras integrated microwave trunk radio communication chain that includes Ultras management and encryption system systems are an essential component of the tactical radio systems.
Key information will be used on Canadas new battlespace network.
They provide secure carried on the network includes the maritime helicopter telephone and high capacity data tactical battlespace picture.
Ultras ADSI communication services to battlefield product provides a world class capability Ultra is developing faster versions of its tactical military line-of-sight commanders.
Ultra is continually developing to fuse together the inputs from many radios to provide users with a higher its range of radios to increase the capacity different military sensors and data links in capacity system and security of the network.
Just as in the order to display a real-time view of the commercial IT world, the capabilities of the tactical battlespace.
Ultras tactical communication tactical communication system must network access equipment has been Much of the real-time information is used extensively in recent and constantly be increased to provide the gathered by sensors mounted on unmanned continuing military operations bandwidth for a broader range of data aerial vehicles.
Ultra specialises in data links including email and near-real time video.
Ultra is developing an innovative both to allow the simultaneous control of Unlike commercial systems, however, military system to allow submerged multiple remotely piloted vehicles and also to communication systems must move quickly submarines to communicate above transmit securely and robustly battlespace water without compromising stealth as the front line moves and the battle information from aircraft to ground based develops.
The speed with which a radio relay receiving equipment.
DNE provides a broad The US and South Korean armies terminal can be set up is vitally important range of data switches which are used are upgrading their communications and special operator features on Ultra radios infrastructure with Ultra radios and extensively at such ground stations.
allow the rapid and reliable creation of a placed contracts in the year To be tactically useful, communication must be dependable link.
Ultra has a world class cryptographic Ultras 2004 acquisition, DNE, based in capability and in 2004 received a development Wallingford, Connecticut, USA, designs, contract for a new system from the US Navy, a manufactures and supports battlespace IT significant win in that it was awarded offshore products that control access to military and one that has substantial potential.
DNEs award emphasises the Groups ability to offer products allow information to be shared tactical communication solutions to satisfy across multiple battlespace IT networks, current and future NATO interoperability and including legacy systems.
Whilst the most battlespace IT requirements.
advanced military communication networks provide an ever-broader range of capabilities, these must still interoperate with older Ultra supplies high-capacity tactical radio systems Ultras ADSI in operational use Ultras data links control unmanned vehicles 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Image courtesy of US DoD Image courtesy of US DoD Chief Executives Review SONAR SYSTEMS achieving success by delivering on schedule Ultras torpedo defence system entered service with the Royal Navy in 2004 ULTRA HAS DEMONSTRATED ITS ABILITY TO WIN AND SUCCESSFULLY EXECUTE CONTRACTS FOR SYSTEMS OF EVER-INCREASING SIZE.
In 2004, Ultras Surface Ship Torpedo Defence of the work to date on the UK SSTD SSTD system entered service with the Royal programme and so can now deliver a Navy, on schedule.
Ultra successfully solution optimised for the particular needs of developed this complex system in less than the US Navy.
Ultra is a world market leader three years.
Utilising a suite of advanced in specialist areas of underwater battlespace sensors towed behind the vessel, SSTD equipment, supplying towed and expendable detects and locates incoming torpedoes, torpedo countermeasures to the UK, US, gives tactical advice on ship manoeuvres and Canadian and Australian navies.
provides capabilities to decoy or defeat the In Ultras traditional market for airborne torpedo threat.
A key feature of the SSTD Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW systems, design is its stand-alone nature which makes some key milestones were reached.
In the it easy to transfer from ship to ship in a fleet.
UK, the Nimrod MRA4 aircraft flew for the This also enhances the systems export Highlights first time.
This ASW aircraft is to be fitted potential including the possibility of being with a broad range of Ultra equipment as Within Ultras sonar systems retrofitted to existing ships.
part of its mission equipment and deliveries activities, successes in 2004 included Ultras SSTD solution is simple to deploy and of these systems continued in 2004.
At the the following to operate important attributes for a key platform level, both the US, with its Boeing Ultra successfully completed a element of a ships defensive suite.
In sea MMA fixed wing programme, and Canada, series of trials of a remotely trials, the in-water elements of SSTD proved with its selection of Sikorsky to supply its operated mine destruction system to be easy to handle when being launched MHP helicopter solution, committed to for the Royal Navy and brought back on board in heavy sea procuring new ASW assets.
In the US and In 2004, Ultra delivered advanced states, greatly enhancing its utility as a Canada, Ultra worked throughout 2004 development models of a protective system for use in all weathers.
positioning its ASW mission equipment for distributed autonomous these new platforms.
underwater sensing system Ultras success in entering service on schedule with SSTD reects the Groups ability to win Ultras manufacture of sonobuoys, the Ultra delivered a new sonar-based and successfully to execute contracts for expendable acoustic sensors used in ASW system to deter sh from systems of ever-increasing size.
Ultra managed systems, was marked by consistently excellent congesting water inlets of hydroa team involving a number of international quality levels in both the US and the UK.
electric power stations defence equipment subcontractors.
Reecting Ultras continuing record of success In the UK, Ultra demonstrated the in the UK market, the MoD awarded the Also in 2004, Ultra was selected by the US feasibility of an enhanced antiGroup in 2004 a long-term partnering Navy for a development contract relating to an submarine warfare capability for contract for the supply and support of maritime patrol aircraft advanced torpedo defence system to protect sonobuoys.
This is a sole-source agreement its surface eet.
This contract was won by Ultra sold its range of active and under which Ultra will satisfy all of the MODs Ultras Ocean Systems business that was passive sonobuoys in 2004 to the requirements for an initial period of ten years.
This award demonstrates US, UK, Australia, Canada, France, the success of Ultras acquisition strategy as and Korea Ocean Systems is able to take full advantage Ultra provides equipment for modern ASW aircraft Ultra provides equipment for modern ASW helicopters Ultras equipment is tted to the new MRA4 ASW aircraft 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Image courtesy of Boeing Image courtesy of US DoD Image courtesy of BAE Systems Financial Review Financial Review Sales by destination 2003 Sales by destination 2004 sales rose by 12.4% to 319.7m, with United Kingdom 122.1m 43% United Kingdom 127.1m 39% Rest of World 26.0m 9% Rest of World 40.1m 13% North America 99.5m 35% North America 114.6m 36% Mainland Europe 36.8m 13% Mainland Europe 37.9m 12% strong cash generation ULTRA CONTINUED Sales by market sector 2003 Sales by market sector 2004 TO ACHIEVE STRONG Sonar 68.3m 24% Sonar 76.4m 24% Other civil equipment 37.3m 13% Other civil equipment 48.1m 15% GROWTH IN 2004.
Civil aircraft equipment 22.3m 8% Civil aircraft equipment 25.5m 8% ORGANIC SALES Other defence equipment 46.0m 17% Other defence equipment 42.3m 13% Military aircraft equipment 32.5m 11% Military aircraft equipment 34.6m 11% INCREASED AT Battlespace IT 78.0m 27% Battlespace IT 92.8m 29% CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES BY 8.7%, WITH AN ADDITIONAL 8.3% COMING FROM ACQUISITIONS.
The latter dollar: the majority of sales in this area come has been paying a high 7.5% interest rate business saw domestic sonobuoy sales from Ultras North American businesses.
DNE, reduced by 12m to just 15m from April recover from a low level in 2003, although acquired during the year, contributed to the 2004 onwards.
The hedging contract will total sonobuoy sales reduced slightly.
Sales of sonar and underwater mature in April 2005.
The reduction in defence systems increased to 76.4m, borrowing costs, together with the 13.1% The proportion of Ultras sales in the UK 24% of the total, driven by Ocean Systems improvement in operating profit, combined reduced from 43% to 39% in the year, acoustic countermeasures and torpedo to give an excellent 15.5% growth in profit but we still recorded a 4% increase in defence equipment.
These compensated for before tax and goodwill amortisation, to domestic revenues.
Amongst the fastest the small overall reduction in sonobuoy sales.
The interest charge growing UK businesses was Airport Systems Military aircraft equipment sales, primarily was covered 15.2 times by operating profit.
with higher activity at Londons Heathrow for Eurofighter and F A-18 E F, increased so Amortisation of goodwill rose by 1.0m to airport.
Manufacturing & Card Systems saw as to maintain an 11% share of revenues.
5.9m, which reflected a full years charge a strong performance in its UK contract As other areas increased in value, sales of for the 2003 acquisitions and a partial charge manufacturing business unit, especially on other defence equipment dropped to 13% for those acquisitions that took place in equipment for the British Armys Bowman Organic of turnover.
Profit before tax was therefore 33.8m communication system.
77% of overall sales, a shift from 79% the 2003: 29.5m, an increase of 14.6%.
growth The biggest increase occurred in sales to the previous year owing to the higher rate of ACQUISITIONS rest of the world, representing 13% of growth in the Groups civil activities.
Ultras acquisitions have all been Ultra made two acquisitions in July 2004. turnover, notably to the Middle East and the funded by internally generated cash In the civil sector, aircraft equipment sales DNE was acquired for $40.4m 22.3m and Pacific Rim countries.
2003 acquisitions were and so may be considered organic increased to 25.5m to maintain their 8% Videcom for 1.5m, both including expenses.
important contributors, with sales by SML share of Group turnover, but other civil The cash payments made during the year Technologies of radar surveillance systems to sales increased to 15% 2003: 13%.
This were 23.3m, lower than the total costs the Middle East and deliveries by Ocean TRADING RESULTS Hence, in sterling, the actual growth in reduced operating profit by 3.3m: at was due to strong sales of IT systems for shown above, because of deferred Systems of underwater countermeasures to Ultra continued to achieve strong growth in Group sales was 12.4%.
Group turnover was constant exchange rates growth would have airports and high contract manufacturing expenditure.
Both of these businesses are Australia.
Organic sales increased at constant 319.7m, compared to 284.4m in 2003. been 8.8% higher.
activity for electronics equipment producers trading in line with expectations and made a increased, as did revenues from Africa and exchange rates by 8.7%, with an additional in the UK.
Civil activities were 23% of total positive contribution to Group profits after Operating profit rose by 13.1% to 42.5m Sales to North America continued to grow the Far East for Airport Systems.
However, sales in the year.
The goodwill arising 2003: 37.5m, equivalent to an operating and represented 36% of annual turnover since all of the Groups acquisitions have been Ultras exports to Continental Europe rose from these acquisitions was 21.1m.
It was margin of 13.3%, up from the 2003 result 2003: 35%, despite the weakening in the INTEREST AND PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION funded by internally generated cash, they may but this market reduced in significance from capitalised at the time that the transactions of 13.2% and maintaining the upward trend.
Recent acquisitions Ocean Systems Interest costs reduced by 0.4m to 2.8m, also be regarded as organic.
This excellent 13% to 12% of sales.
took place and amortised during the last five This excellent level of profitability was and DNE were partly responsible for this due to lower interest rates and the underlying performance was partly offset by months of the year at a rate consistent with achieved despite negative currency effects growth, but it was encouraging to see Sales of battlespace IT equipment grew from unwinding of the fixed interest rate hedging the translation and transaction effects of the a twenty-year life.
and continuing downward market pressures existing businesses such as Advanced 27% to 29% of Group turnover in the year.
contract to which the Group committed in weaker US dollar, which reduced sales growth on selling prices.
Foreign currency factors Programming Concepts and UnderSea Sensor This was despite the impact of the weaker US 2000.
The amount of debt on which Ultra by 4.6% altogether, equivalent to 13.0m.
before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Financial Review Financial Review ONCE AGAIN CASH GENERATION WAS EXCELLENT 12.2% Growing DURING THE PAST YEAR AND THIS IS A DIRECT Dividend CONSEQUENCE OF THE EMPHASIS THAT ULTRA markets A total dividend increase of 12.2%, GIVES TO CASH MANAGEMENT.
covered 3.2 times by earnings per Ultras sales to North America share continued to grow in 2004 as did the Groups battlespace IT activity EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS on acquisitions, together with 8.5m of time.
All of the existing banks have expressed net exposure of about US $70m last year, approximately 0.7m per annum.
Ultras US The effective tax rate on profit before dividends, net debt was reduced by 7.1m to a preliminary interest in participating in a Group sales in 2004 would have been subsidiaries and Maritime Systems in Canada Headroom goodwill amortisation decreased slightly to close the year at 23.2m 2003: 30.3m.
The future facility, although formal negotiations approximately 3.8m or 1% higher had the operate defined contribution schemes and 26.0% 2003: 26.4% and earnings per balance sheet was very strong with a net have yet to take place.
The Board is confident overall hedged rate remained unchanged employees at Tactical Communication Ultras strong balance sheet share rose by 15.4% to 44.1p 2003: 38.2p.
debt:equity ratio of 29%, which leaves Ultra that new funding arrangements can be from the previous year.
Operating profit on Systems participate in a limited defined gives headroom for further The directors are proposing a final dividend of with substantial headroom on its banking secured well before the end of 2005.
At the same basis would have been 2.3m or benefit scheme.
There was an FRS17 1.0m investments and acquisitions 9.2p, bringing the total dividend to 13.8p facilities to make further acquisitions.
31 December 2004, 69% of total debt was 5% higher.
Ultras effective US dollar:sterling deficit on the Tactical Communication 2003: 12.3p, an increase of 12.2%.
The full at floating rates after taking account of the rate for 2005, based upon the forward Systems scheme at the end of 2004.
This will FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT year dividend is covered 3.2 times by earnings interest rate hedge, which applied to the first contracts currently in place, is expected to be be eliminated over the next ten years by Ultras financial instruments, other than per share, which reects the Groups policy 15m of debt.
increasing the company contributions by an derivatives, comprise borrowings, cash and of strong dividend cover.
amount that has been agreed with the trade funding consisting of debtors, FOREIGN CURRENCY PENSIONS scheme actuaries.
CASH FLOW AND BORROWINGS creditors and customer advances.
Group Ultras reported financial results are In the UK, Ultra offers company-funded 36.0m Once again cash generation was excellent policy prohibits speculative transactions and influenced by movements in exchange rates retirement benets to all its employees.
These INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING during the past year and this is a direct no trading in financial instruments is and the overall impact is a combination of benets comprise a combination of dened STANDARDS Free cash ow consequence of the emphasis that Ultra gives undertaken.
Treasury policies are determined currency translation and currency transaction benefit and dened contribution schemes, As a company listed on the London Stock In 2004, Ultras free cash ow was to cash management.
Operating cash ow by the Group Finance Director and agreed effects.
The biggest sensitivity is to the US with most staff still participating in the Ultra Exchange, Ultra is required to report its 36.0m, a new record level after capital expenditure and LTIP share by the Board.
They are reviewed regularly to and Canadian dollars.
Electronics Limited dened benefit scheme.
statutory results from 2005 onwards under purchases was 46.9m, which represents an ensure that they remain appropriate.
This scheme was closed to new entrants in International Accounting Standards.
The first The average rates used in the year to translate operating profit to cash conversion ratio of 2003 and all new joiners are invited to report to be affected will be the interim FINANCING the sales and operating profits of Ultras 111%, bringing the average rate over the become members of the Ultra Electronics results, due to be published in August 2005.
Ultras existing operations and new American and Canadian subsidiaries into past five years to 106%.
The dened benefit The Group is well advanced in preparing for acquisitions are financed through a mix of sterling weakened by 10% for the US dollar, management of working capital is the main scheme was actuarially assessed in April 2004, the changeover to the new standards and retained cash and bank borrowings.
The and 4% for the Canadian dollar, compared to reason for this achievement: overall there was when its funding level was 97% of the has compiled its 2005 budget on the new Group took out an 80m three-year revolving 2003.
For the Group as a whole, currency a reduction of 4.8m.
Although we saw Minimum Funding Requirement.
It is planned to reissue the 2004 credit facility in 2002 with a small syndicate of translation effects reduced sales by 9.2m or stocks and debtors increasing by 2.2m and Financial Reporting Standard 17 valuation of results, restated for International Accounting banks, led by The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
3% and operating profit by 1.0m or 2%.
1.7m respectively, due to growth in trading the scheme at the end of 2004 showed a Standards, during the second quarter of this The facility is denominated in sterling Some of Ultras businesses in the UK and activities, creditors and provisions for liabilities deterioration compared to December 2003, year.
This will provide a set of comparative together with US and Canadian dollars and is Canada also make sales in foreign currencies, and charges rose by 8.6m in total.
Average with a net deficit of 27.1m 2003: 19.3m, numbers against which the 2005 results can used for balance sheet hedging and mainly US dollars.
When the US dollar creditor days rose to 51 days 2003: 43 days, after deducting the associated deferred tax be compared.
Both the sterling and US weakens against local currencies this means slightly above the 47 day average over the last asset.
This deterioration occurred despite the dollar elements are used to fund day-to-day that turnover suffers from a negative five years.
There was a 5.2m investment in Stock Market recovery during the year, and working capital requirements.
The US and currency transaction effect.
This is partly xed assets during the year, virtually in line was due to using more conservative valuation Canadian dollar borrowings provide hedges relieved by sourcing materials in US dollars, with the 5.1m depreciation charge.
There assumptions, notably longer life expectancy.
for assets denominated in those currencies.
thus reducing the overall net exposure to were no major capital projects during the year The scheme is relatively immature, with just David Jeffcoat, Finance Director and A further 10m overdraft is also available for Company Secretary currency fluctuations.
The Group policy is to and the bulk of this expenditure went on 14% of the members already retired, and short-term working capital funding.
The hedge the net exposure on orders in hand upgrading the IT infrastructure.
In addition remains strongly cash positive.
In order to facility is due for renewal in December 2005 using forward foreign exchange contracts, 1.1m was spent on buying Ultra shares for maintain the schemes financial strength, and preliminary discussions have taken place typically extending 18-24 months.
Exposure the directors Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Free Ultra has committed to increase its with the syndicate members regarding new to other currencies is hedged as it arises on cash ow was 36.0m 2003: 35.7m, a contributions from 15% of pensionable pay financing arrangements, to take effect at that specific contracts.
Based upon the combined new record level.
After spending of 23.3m to 18% by 2007, a total increase of before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m after purchase of LTIP shares but before dividends, before goodwill amortisation of 5.9m 2003: 4.9m acquisitions and financing 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Ultra is a responsible citizen ULTRA BELIEVES THAT IT SHOULD AT ALL TIMES BE A RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE Benets Commitment CITIZEN AND THAT THIS CONTRIBUTES TO ULTRAS LONG-TERM SUPERIOR Ultra offers competitive benets to Ultra believes in having an efficient BUSINESS PERFORMANCE.
ULTRAS POLICIES RELATING TO ITS CORPORATE all employees, which are regularly and committed workforce RESPONSIBILITY ARE ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD WITH INDIVIDUAL BUSINESSES reviewed.
The Group believes in rewarding its employees well for TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR THEIR IMPLEMENTATION.
good performance Ultra believes that it should at all times be a Customer relationships EMPLOYEES has established a procedure enabling undergraduate students and supported other first launched in 2000 and in 2004 responsible corporate citizen.
As such the Ultra promotes good working relationships Employment practices employees to bring matters to the attention of development activities such as work placement approximately two-thirds of eligible UK Group complies with all applicable legislation with all our customers with a special Ultra believes that superior business an appropriate manager outside of their own and work shadowing during 2004. employees participated in the scheme.
in the areas of trading, employment, health emphasis on meeting our commitments.
performance can only be achieved through business in the event that they do not feel Within the UK employees are eligible to Pensions and safety and the environment.
Ultra The Group receives direct feedback on having a committed and efficient workforce.
able to approach their local line management.
participate in the Governments Home Ultras pension arrangements are discussed in further believes that, in order to achieve relationships from customers such as BAE Achieving this high quality of workforce This procedure was independently reviewed Computing Initiative.
Under the programme, the Finance Review.
superior business performance, the Group Systems where Ultra is a member of the requires Ultra to recruit widely and with no and updated during 2004.
Ultra offers a tax-exempt loan scheme for Pension management and governance is must, in certain areas, exceed the minimum Major Equipment Supply Programme MESP bias or discrimination.
It is therefore the Development and training computer equipment for employees to use at undertaken by pension trustees on behalf of standards required by law.
Ultras policies and from UK MoD Supplier Relations Group.
policy of Ultra to be an equal opportunities The Group actively supports and invests in home.
The programme was launched in 2004 members.
The UK dened benefit pension relating to its corporate responsibility are These relationships are also regularly employer and to oppose all forms of training and development linked to business as part of the UltraSelect exible benets scheme has a statement of investment generally established by the Board with recognised by other customers across the unlawful or unfair discrimination on the needs.
Each business is responsible for package and there was a high take up rate principles.
This includes a statement on socially individual businesses taking a major role in range of Ultra businesses through feedback grounds of sex, race, nationality, disability, identifying the training needs of its employees with 10% of employees participating.
A responsible investment which is delegated to their implementation.
The policies are and award processes.
sexual orientation, age, marital status, and managing its own training budget.
This computer purchase plan is also operated at the investment managers.
In addition, the For example, in 2004 Controls received a typically takes place through individual one business in North America.
trustees include company nominated and Group is a responsible employer, seeking to CUSTOMERS prestigious award from Airbus in recognition employee performance and development Benets employee elected representatives.
Ultra achieve a culture of fairness to employees Business ethics of being rated by airline operators as one of reviews, which are held at least annually.
Ultra offers competitive benets to all supports the trustees in a number of ways and of being a good place both to work and Ultra requires that the Groups employees the top ten suppliers of equipment on Airbus Specic training programmes are provided for employees, which are regularly reviewed.
The including training to the Trustee Certicate of develop a career.
Employees and applicants comply with the laws and standards of aircraft.
Also during 2004, recently acquired individuals as necessary.
"Additionally, training Group believes in rewarding its employees well Essential Pensions Knowledge standard which are treated equally and fairly in respect of conduct of the countries in which it does DNE received ""Best Value Gold Medallist programmes on management processes and for good performance."
is independently assessed by the Pensions recruitment, remuneration, training, business as well as behaving ethically and recognition from the Defense Supply Center techniques are run at Group level along with Management Institute.
There is a very high satisfaction rate among with fairness.
Directors and employees are Richmond, Virginia, while Measurement workshops on Ultras successful competitive employees based on the results of the Succession planning required to avoid personal conflicts of Systems Inc. received a Raytheon STARS Many UK businesses are accredited to the strategy process.
employee surveys conducted during 2004 see An annual organisation and succession plan interest regarding company business.
Outstanding Vendor Award in recognition Investors In People standard and are Some UK businesses run apprenticeship Employee consultation below.
All US and is produced by the Managing Director or of exemplary performance, high quality regularly audited.
In addition, all businesses are strictly required programmes and a number of businesses offer Canadian employees are offered health plans.
President of each business and is used to standards, and the ability to meet to comply fully with the relevant national In complying with the Public Interest Disclosure scholarship and tuition reimbursement In the UK employees can participate in the identify the development actions for demanding schedules.
Act 1998 in the United Kingdom, the Group programmes.
Ultra has also sponsored UltraSelect flexible benefits plan.
This was employees with high potential.
It also reviews 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility ULTRA PROMOTES GOOD WORKING RELATIONSHIPS WITH ALL ITS CUSTOMERS WITH A SPECIAL EMPHASIS ON MEETING COMMITMENTS.
the performance of the business management safety responsibility.
The Managing Directors at all times.
Progress is monitored through addition a new high technology surface Measurement Systems Inc. provided teams, defines the local annual training plan and Presidents of the operating businesses are cooperative culture which helps with annual reporting and a bi-annual audit process.
mount production line will use lead-free internships for students from the University and any planned organisation changes.
responsible for implementation of the policy.
problem solving and helps to accommodate solder thereby eliminating the risk of lead of New Haven and Fairfield University while The Chief Operating Officer, who will changes to requirements where these occur.
contamination when the circuit boards reach Sonar & Communication Systems hosted an Employee consultation Bi-annual audits by independent, external, become Chief Executive, has been appointed Gain-share arrangements are also entered the end of their life.
insight day with Brunel University for Gaining the commitment of the workforce is qualified assessors covering health and safety as the main Board member with overall into where appropriate and provide benefits young women students considering a career facilitated by effective communication and matters are conducted, the last of which environmental responsibility.
The Managing The weight of packaging used by UK for both Ultra and its suppliers and partners.
This takes a number of forms took place in 2003.
These were performed Directors and Presidents of the operating businesses is assessed and reported annually such as the bi-annual Group magazine by EEF South in the UK and NATLSCO now Supplier payment policy businesses are responsible for implementation to ensure compliance with the current Ultra News, company-wide strategy and Broadspire in North America.
Planning Operating businesses are responsible for of the policy.
performance presentations, birthday and started in 2004 on the 2005 cycle which will agreeing the terms and conditions under Bi-annual external audits covering Charitable activities communication lunches, all-hands meetings cover all Ultra businesses.
Previous audits which they conduct business transactions environmental matters are conducted by In addition to the charitable donations made and YOURviews employee surveys.
and the resulting follow-up process have with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that independent, external, qualified auditors: the by the Group, disclosed in the Directors proved effective in reaching and maintaining payments to suppliers are made in The YOURviews employee survey provides last audit was performed in 2003 by EEF Report, Ultra employees are actively high standards across all sites.
In addition, accordance with those terms, provided that local management teams with feedback and South in the UK and NATLSCO now supported in their charitable fund-raising each business is required to submit a the supplier is also complying with all an opportunity to benchmark across the Broadspire in North America.
A large number of local and separate annual report on health and safety relevant terms and conditions.
The process is typically conducted planning started on the 2005 cycle, which national charities are supported.
The results of the audits and annual actual payment performance at the end of every one to two years: during 2004 the will cover all Ultra businesses.
As with health employees at a number of businesses in the reports are reviewed by the divisional 2004 is described in the Directors Report.
survey took place in eleven businesses and and safety the audits and the resulting US raised over $13,000 for the United Way Managing Directors and Chief Operating showed high levels of employee satisfaction.
COMMUNITY follow-up process have proved effective in charity.
Charitable support led Ocean Systems Officer before a summary is submitted to the Ultra recognises the importance of being a reaching and maintaining high standards of to receive an Outstanding Leadership In the United Kingdom more formal Board for review.
responsible partner in the communities in compliance across all sites.
In addition each Award in 2004.
Several businesses also Information and Consultation practices were Health and safety of employees, visitors and which it operates and in which its employees business is required to submit an annual collect food and clothing which is distributed pilot tested during 2004 and will be formally the local community alike is taken very live.
The Group has a positive attitude to report on environmental issues.
The results of to their local communities.
introduced in 2005. seriously by the Group and the individual environmental issues and is pleased to the audits and annual reports are reviewed by At Airport Systems, employees made Health and safety businesses.
Ultras commitment to health and support selected charities and maintain links the divisional Managing Directors and Chief voluntary donations in exchange for dressing A healthy and committed workforce is safety was exemplied during 2004 by the with the local communities.
Operating Officer before a summary is casually on Fridays while at DNE, employees necessary to achieve better business results.
recognition by RoSPA of PMES through an submitted to the Board for review.
Environment volunteered to spend time each week Accordingly Ultra places great emphasis on occupational health and safety award.
Other Ultra recognises it is important, both for its The trend of improvement in recycling and mentoring and helping children in a local maintaining high standards of health and related achievements within Ultra include the employees and the communities in which it waste reduction was maintained in 2004 in school.
Other activities included, in the UK, safety.
All Ultra businesses are required to establishment of an emergency medical operates, that effective measures are in place most Ultra businesses.
Investment in new the Manchester 10km run, cancer walks have a written local policy, to have the response team and a wellness committee to to ensure that the Group minimises the plant has also helped reduce the and local fun days.
necessary resources to implement the policy, increase awareness of critical health issues.
environmental impact of its activities.
environmental impact of the Groups to provide adequate information, instruction Local links SUPPLIERS operations.
For example, a new paint spray and training for employees and to implement Ultra has a formal environmental policy that Links with local universities and other Supplier and other partner relationships gun washing machine has helped reduce monitoring of health and safety standards.
addresses compliance with environmental academic institutions are encouraged.
During Contracts with suppliers are placed following solvent usage and produces less hazardous legislation, conformity with standards for air, 2004 this has included sponsorship of The Chief Operating officer, who will become a fair, competitive tendering process on an waste while a new conformal coating waste disposal and noise, the economical use undergraduate students, work experience Chief Executive, has been appointed as the arms length basis or through formal teaming machine also reduces solvent usage and of materials and the establishment of placements, work shadowing as well as main Board member with overall health and agreements.
Conflicts of interest are avoided significantly reduces operator risk.
In appropriate environmental performance direct graduate recruitment.
For example, 24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25 Business addresses Board of Directors Tactical & Sonar Systems Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Information & Power Systems DNE Technologies Controls Division Advanced Tactical Systems 50 Barnes Park North 417 Bridport Road 3300 Duval Road, Suite 200 Wallingford Greenford Austin 01 04 05 07 08 Connecticut 06492-5912 Middlesex UB6 8UA Texas 78759 USA England USA Tel: 1 203 265 7151 Tel: 44 0 20 8813 4444 Tel: 1 512 327 6795 Fax: 1 203 265 9101 Fax: 44 0 20 8813 4351 Fax: 1 512 327 8043 Flightline Systems Datel Airport Systems 02 03 06 09 7625 Omnitech Place 1 Chain Caul Way The Oaks Victor Ashton-on-Ribble Crewe Road 01 Peter Macfarlane FCA FCT, 04 Chris Bailey FCA MCT, 07 Frank Hope PhD CPhys MInstP, New York 14564-9795 Preston PR2 2YL Wythenshawe Non Executive Chairman, age 66, qualied as Non-Executive Director, aged 58, was Managing Director, Information & Power USA England Manchester M23 9SS a Chartered Accountant with Touche Ross appointed to the board in January 2005.
Systems, age 50, started his career with Tel: 1 585 924 4000 Tel: 44 0 1772 325200 England and, after three years with Coopers & Lybrand Mr Bailey joined English China Clays plc in Tecalemit as a design engineer working on Fax: 1 585 924 5732 Fax: 44 0 1772 325201 Tel: 44 0 161 946 3600 joined Kimberley Clark, managing their 1969 becoming Finance Director of ECC robotics.
He spent 13 years with Avimo Fax: 44 0 161 946 3601 Maritime Systems Electrics Division financial affairs in Europe, Africa and the Construction Materials Ltd in 1985.
In 1994 Limited latterly as Managing Director, having 40 Atlantic Street Kingsditch Lane Command & Control Systems Middle East.
He joined Rolls Royce in 1979 as he became Group Finance Director of previously held the positions of Technical Dartmouth Cheltenham Knaves Beech Business Centre Group Treasurer and, after a period as Director CAMAS plc and in 1997, following that Director and Operations Director.
He joined Nova Scotia B2Y4N2 Gloucestershire GL51 9PG Loudwater of Corporate Development, was appointed companys merger with Bardon Group plc to Ultra in 1994 as Managing Director of the Canada England High Wycombe Finance Director in 1989.
Mr Macfarlane form Aggregate Industries plc, he became Electrics division.
Dr Hope was appointed to Tel: 1 902 466 7491 Tel: 44 0 1242 221166 Buckinghamshire HP10 9UT retired from the board of Allied Domecq plc in Group Finance Director, a position he held the board of Ultra in January 1999 and in Fax: 1 902 463 6098 Fax: 44 0 1242 221167 England 1998 where he had been initially Finance until his retirement in 2004.
Mr Bailey is also April 2000 became Managing Director of Tel: 44 0 1628 530000 Director and subsequently Chairman of two a Non-Executive Director of Rok property Aircraft & Vehicle Systems.
He was appointed Ocean Systems Measurement Systems Inc. Fax: 44 0 1628 524557 divisions.
He was appointed to the board of solutions plc with effect from 1 March 2005. to his current position in April 2004.
115 Bay State Drive 777 Commerce Drive Ultra in December 1994.
Braintree Fairfield EMS 05 Ian Grifths BSc, 08 David Jeffcoat BA FCMA, Massachusetts 02184-5203 Connecticut 06432 95 Horseblock Road 02 Julian Blogh CBE PhD CEng MIEE, Non-Executive Director, age 54, was Finance Director and Company Secretary, USA USA PO Box 640 Chief Executive, age 61, has spent most of appointed to the board in April 2003.
He is age 54, started his career as a production Tel: 1 781 848 3400 Tel: 1 203 336 4590 Yaphank his working life in the electronics industry a main board executive director of GKN plc, engineer in the car industry.
Since qualifying Fax: 1 781 843 2153 Fax: 1 203 336 5945 New York 11980 working with Ferranti Radar, Plessey Radar where he is Group Managing Director GKN as an accountant he has held senior financial USA Sonar & Communication Systems Precision Air Systems and Dowty Electronic Systems.
In this role, to which he was positions in several large corporations Tel: 1 631 345 6200 419 Bridport Road Anson Business Park Managing Director of Sonar & Communication appointed in October 2004, Mr Grifths is including GlaxoWellcome plc, where he was Fax: 1 631 345 6216 Greenford Cheltenham Road East Systems from 1987 to 1992, when he was responsible for all of GKNs Automotive Finance Director of two subsidiaries.
Before Middlesex UB6 8UA Gloucester GL2 9QN Manufacturing & Card Systems appointed Managing Director of Dowty activities world wide.
Prior to this he was Chief joining Ultra he was Group Financial Controller England England Waverley House Avionics.
He became Chief Executive of Ultra Executive of GKN Driveline, a major division of of Smiths Industries plc for three years.
He Tel: 44 0 20 8813 4567 Tel: 44 0 1452 714382 Hampshire Road Electronics when it began trading in October GKN with facilities in 30 countries designing was appointed to the board in July 2000.
Fax: 44 0 20 8813 4568 Fax: 44 0 1452 715252 Granby Estate 1993 and was also appointed Deputy and manufacturing driveline components and 09 Andrew Walker MA CEng, Weymouth Chairman in April 2004. systems.
He has been a member of the GKN Tactical Communication Systems Senior Non-Executive Director, age 53, was Dorset DT4 9XD Driveline senior management team since 1990 600 Dr Frederik Philips Boulevard 03 Douglas Caster BSc MIEE, appointed to the board in June 1996.
He is England during which time he has been responsible for Ville Saint-Laurent Chief Operating Officer, age 51, started as a Chairman of both the Audit and Tel: 44 0 1305 784738 operations in the UK, USA, and global Quebec H4M2S9 Design Engineer with Racal in 1975, before Remuneration Committees.
Joining the Fax: 44 0 1305 777904 Marketing and Engineering based in Germany.
Canada moving to Schlumberger and then to Dowty Dowty Group plc in 1978, he became an He was appointed Chief Executive of GKN Tel: 1 514 855 6363 PMES as Engineering Director of Sonar & operating board member in 1991.
Following Driveline in November 2000 and to GKN plc Fax: 1 514 855 6353 Armitage Road Communication Systems in 1988.
In 1992, TI Groups acquisition of Dowty, he became main board in January 2001.
Rugeley he became Managing Director of that Managing Director of John Crane Polymer UnderSea Sensor Systems Inc. Staffordshire WS15 1DR division and joined the board of Ultra in 06 Andy Hamment BA FRAeS, Engineering.
He was Chief Executive of South 4578 East Park 30 Drive England October 1993.
In 1999 he became Managing Group Marketing Director, age 50, started his Wales Electricity plc SWALEC from 1993 to Columbia City Tel: 44 0 1889 503300 Director of Command & Control Systems career with Hawker Siddeley before moving to 1996, and was Chief Executive of McKechnie Indiana 46725-8869 Fax: 44 0 1889 572929 with responsibility for Manufacturing & Card Schlumberger in 1980, working in plc from 1997 to 2001.
Mr Walker is also a USA Systems, PMES, and APC.
In April 2000, he procurement and then marketing at Weston Non-Executive Director of Halma plc, API Tel: 1 260 248 3500 SML Technologies was promoted to the position of Managing Aerospace before transferring to Solartron as Group plc, Manganese Bronze Holdings plc, Fax: 1 260 248 3510 316 Botley Road Director of the Information & Power Systems Aerospace Business Manager.
He joined Porvair plc and is Chairman of Bioganix Ltd. Burridge division and in April 2004 he was appointed Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of the Southampton to his current position.
He was appointed to his Hampshire SO31 1BQ current position in July 2000 and joined the England board at that time.
Tel: 44 0 1489 557373 Fax: 44 0 1489 557374 Audit and Remuneration Committee members 26 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Directors report For the year ended 31 December 2004 The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the accounts and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2004.
Details in relation to health, safety and the environment, business ethics and employment practice and employee consultation are included in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on page 22.
Principal activity Ultra Electronics is a group of businesses engaged in the design, development and manufacture of electronic systems for the international defence and aerospace markets.
Results and dividends The review of operations is contained on pages 4 to 17.
Group results and dividends are as follows: 2004 000 Balance on profit and loss account, beginning of year 34,366 Profit for the financial year 23,477 Dividends: Interim paid of 4.6p per share 3,089 Final proposed of 9.2p per share 6,157 Foreign exchange differences 196 Balance on profit and loss account, end of year 48,793 The final 2004 dividend is proposed to be paid on 6 May 2005 to shareholders on the register at 15 April 2005.
The interim dividend was paid on 27 September 2004, making a total of 13.8p 2003: 12.3p per share for the year.
Future developments A review of the activities and future developments of the Group is contained in the Chief Executives Review on pages 4 to 17.
Research and development The Directors are committed to maintaining a significant level of research and development expenditure in order to expand the Groups range of proprietary products.
During the year a total of 70.4 million 2003: 65.4 million was spent on engineering development of which 54.9 million 2003: 52.7 million was funded by customers and 15.5 million 2003: 12.7 million by the Group.
Directors and their interests The Directors who served in the year and their interests in the shares of the Company are listed on page 37.
Substantial shareholdings At 21 February 2005, the Company had been notified in accordance with Sections 198-208 of the Companies Act 1985 that the following were registered as having an interest in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Percentage of ordinary Number of 5p share capital ordinary shares Deutsche Bank AG 13.97 9,343,577 Barclays plc 5.95 3,978,477 Legal and General 3.58 2,397,439 The Aegon UK plc Group of Companies 3.18 2,106,714 Morley Fund Management 3.15 2,106,456 Sun Life Assurance 3.09 2,064,069 Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.02 2,015,937 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 27 Directors report continued Corporate governance Charitable and political contributions Combined code compliance The Group contributed 19,000 2003: 28,000 to charities and made no contributions for political purposes in The Group complies with the Combined Code provisions on Corporate Governance issued in June 1998.
During the past either year.
year it has operated all of the procedures necessary to follow the 1999 internal control guidelines and has maintained a reporting process in accordance with them.
During 2004, the Group was close to full compliance with the provisions Supplier payment policy of the new Combined Code the Code on Corporate Governance that was published in July 2003.
A summary of the Operating divisions are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which they conduct business Groups compliance position follows, with details of the exceptions.
It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those Main Board terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
The Board deals with the important aspects of the Groups affairs including setting and monitoring strategy, reviewing Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2004 were 51 days 2003: 43 days, based on the ratio of performance, ensuring that the Group has adequate financial resources and reporting to shareholders.
The Board has Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by suppliers.
The Company had no established Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, to which certain key responsibilities are delegated.
These trade creditors at either year-end.
responsibilities, which are in line with the recommendations of the Combined Code, are set out below.
Annual General Meeting At the end of 2004 the main Board comprised the Chairman, two independent non-executive Directors and five executive Explanation of special business resolutions is given below: Directors.
The Chairman, Peter Macfarlane, will be retiring after the Annual General Meeting.
As discussed in the 2003 Resolution 8 Annual Report, the Board is proposing to appoint the current Chief Executive of Ultra, Julian Blogh, as his successor.
The This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 1,115,075 Board recognises that this step will not conform with the Code guidelines, but believes that this is an exceptional case.
one third of the allotted and fully paid up share capital of the Company.
Dr Bloghs contribution to Ultras development since its formation eleven years ago is such that it would be a significant loss to the shareholders if he were to leave the Group completely at this time.
He has an outstanding track record in Resolution 9 developing and implementing the Groups strategy and has created substantial shareholder value: the average shareholder This resolution authorises the Directors to allot shares for cash, without first having offered to allot such shares to return during the eight year period since flotation in 1996 is more than 15% per annum.
Dr Blogh has a detailed existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings, in respect of 5% of the total issued share capital of the understanding of Ultras technology, its major programmes and its markets.
With this background the Directors believe Company.
Resolutions 8 and 9 comply with the Association of British Insurers guidelines and renew similar authorities that he will provide a much more effective and independent challenge to the executive team than a new Chairman given previously.
The authorities expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the recruited from outside the Group.
The Boards view has been supported by the Groups major shareholders during a recent Company or 15 months after the date of passing these resolutions.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise series of consultation meetings.
Dr Blogh will be replaced as Chief Executive by Douglas Caster, an existing executive the authorities sought by these resolutions except for employee share option schemes.
Director and currently Chief Operating Officer of Ultra.
As senior independent non-executive director, Andrew Walker will have particular responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for safeguarding the provisions of the Combined Code on corporate Resolution 10 governance.
Mr Walker will be available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels This resolution authorises the Directors to purchase up to a total of 3,345,226 of the Companys shares representing of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority expires on the earlier of 12 months from the date of The Board is proposing to replace Mr Macfarlane as an independent non-executive Director by Christopher Bailey.
He was passing this resolution or the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
appointed to the Board in January 2005 and is standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Baileys The Directors will use the share purchase authority with discretion.
In reaching a decision to purchase shares of the curriculum vitae can be found on page 26 of this report.
These changes will mean that the future composition of the Board Company the Directors would take account of the Companys business and any impact on earnings per share and net will be the Chairman, three independent non-executive Directors and four executive Directors.
Although the Code calls for tangible assets per share.
The Directors have no current intention to exercise the authority sought by this resolution.
the majority of the Board to be independent non-executive Directors, it is the view of the Directors that the proposed structure will be appropriate for Ultra given the relative complexity of the business and the desire of the Board to maintain By order of the Board, a flexible, rapid and informed decision-making process.
Any further increase in the number of non-executive Directors at this time would result in reduced focus, slower decisions and a higher cost base.
Mr Jeffcoat, who was appointed to the Board in 2000, is both Finance Director and Company Secretary, reporting to the Chief Executive.
The Board believes that Mr Jeffcoat is able effectively to maintain sufficient separation of his two roles D. Jeffcoat to avoid any significant conflicts of interest.
Ultras lean management structure does not permit extra costs to be incurred Company Secretary by appointing an independent Company Secretary.
21 February 2005 The Board met eleven times during the year.
Details of the numbers of meetings of the main Board and its sub-committees Registered Office: 417 Bridport Road, Greenford, Middlesex UB6 8UA that were attended by the individual directors are set out in the table on page 31.
Registered Number: 2830397 Key decisions that are delegated to the Chief Executive include the approval of budgeted capital investments below 500,000 in value, major contract bids below 100 million, the appointment and dismissal of business unit Managing Directors and their individual levels of remuneration, and charitable donations with the advice of an internal charities committee.
28 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 29
