Chief executives review Improved performance John Roberts, All of our businesses have made Chief executive significant progress during the year and contributed to the groups improved performance.
Business performance due to their more complex nature, these In licensed multi-utility operations, as well contracts can take longer to secure, as growing profit, we have met our output they allow us to manage more risk targets and delivered over 1 billion of our and give us higher margins compared capital investment programme, our highest to transactional based deals.
As the ever in a single year.
business mix continues to change, we are targeting Vertexs operating margins For our water business, during the to increase to above our previous seven 2000-05 period, we are expecting to to eight per cent range.
outperform our quality capital investment programme, which is targeted at meeting During the year, United Utilities Contract higher drinking water and environmental Solutions has continued to grow its standards, by around ten per cent.
In operations in its target UK and central order to improve our service performance, European markets, strengthening its we are increasing our capital maintenance position as the leading utility infrastructure expenditure during the latter part of the outsourcing company in the country.
We believe that As well as mobilising the Scottish Water this new level of expenditure, which has contract, which was the first time also been proposed in our final business a UK water utility had outsourced the plan, is appropriate to sustain our service management of its capital investment level improvements for the next review programme to another utility, we also period and beyond.
increased our shareholdings in our European concessions.
This was achieved Vertex continues to make good progress, in partnership with the European Bank growing operating margins to 6.8 per for Reconstruction and Development, cent and operating profits by a third.
which, for the first time, took a substantial Vertex is also successfully changing its equity position alongside a water utility.
business mix with transformational contracts, which involve the re-engineering In March, we announced the acquisition of business processes, accounting for an of Eurocall, a telecoms reseller based increasing proportion of sales.
Although, in north west England.
As a result of this acquisition, we expect to deliver significant synergy savings and improve profit before tax the utilisation of our network, thereby accelerating Your Communications up 6% to drive towards profitability.
Excluding the acquisition of Eurocall, Your Communications met our target of being a net cash contributor to the group, on a post-tax basis this year and was 349m also free cash ow positive in the second half of the year.
We are now targeting the business to generate an operating profit in the second half of 2004 05.
2 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 profit before tax m Turnover m Adjusted basic earnings per share pence 350 2,500 60 340 50 2,000 330 40 320 1,500 30 310 300 1,000 20 2002 2003 2004 2002 2003 2004 2002 2003 2004 Adjusted basic earnings per share excludes Regulation Outlook exceptional items and goodwill amortisation and In its final business plan for the United Utilities Water is set to benefit from has been restated for all periods prior to the rights issue using an adjustment factor based on the 2005-10 period, which was submitted an allowed price increase of 11.4 per cent consideration received from the first stage of the in April, United Utilities Water proposed in 2004 05, reecting an allowed real price rights issue and assumed proceeds from the second a capital investment programme of rise of 8.9 per cent and retail price ination stage, which are due to be received in June 2005.
This is based on a package of 2.5 per cent.
Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items as shown on the face of the consolidated profit and of maintaining existing services loss account and dened in footnote 2 on page 15.
With the final water and electricity to customers, meeting higher drinking distribution regulatory determinations Operating profit for a segment is before goodwill water and environmental quality standards amortisation and exceptional items as shown in the expected towards the end of the year, the and targeting customers expressed segmental analysis by class of business in note 2 of business is now entering a crucial period.
We remain rmly focused on achieving the In order to fund this investment, we right outcome from the reviews for all of estimate that customer bills would need our stakeholders and continue to expect to increase by an average of 7.8 per cent that the reviews will provide acceptable ahead of retail price ination each year allowed returns for our shareholders.
Our non-regulated businesses continue to The extension of United Utilities capital make good progress in their target markets.
base through the rights issue, together With turnover from these businesses with a number of other contributing exceeding 1 billion for the first time, they factors, has signicantly mitigated the now contribute over 75 million of operating impact of the capital investment profit to the group, compared to around programme on customer bills.
As a result, break even in my first full year as chief the proposed average annual real increase executive, three years ago.
Based on has reduced by over a third compared to contracts already secured, and opportunities the draft business plan.
we are currently pursuing, we are confident Ofwat plans to publish its draft decision that these businesses offer good growth on the level of investment and impact on prospects for the future.
customer bills on 5 August 2004, with its final determination due on 2 December 2004.
Turnover up by John Roberts Chief executive 195m to 2,115.5 million United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
