Vedanta Resources plc 8 Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives Review Anil Agarwal Vedanta Resources plc 9 Annual Report 2004 Implementing a US$2 billion programme of investment in the Businesses...
It has only been six months between our Listing In January 2004 the Government of India reduced and the production of our first Annual Report, tariffs across all of our commodity products.
The but a great deal has been achieved in that time tariffs were reduced by 5% on copper and zinc and a and the progress made has been encouraging.
special tariff of 4% was permanently removed across all product groups including inputs of imported Over that period we have seen good production materials, such as imported coal.
This has left tariffs growth in several areas, which when combined with of 15% on aluminium and 20% on lead, zinc and cost control and strong metal prices, has resulted in copper.
The net impact on our EBITDA and operating strong financial results.
Turnover has increased by profit was a reduction of around US$10 million over 34% to US$1,290 million.
Group operating profit a period of some three months.
We believe that has increased by over 100% to US$237 million for tariffs in India will continue to decline, though we the year, compared to US$115 million in 2003.
At the cannot predict when any reduction will take place.
year end our earnings per share was 23.3 US cents compared to 24.5 US cents based on Underlying Our aim is to reduce our costs of production, to Profit, based on 286 million Ordinary Shares in issue.
ensure that we remain competitive.
Expansion will help reduce costs and continued liberalisation We have continued to make progress on improving will lead to a more open economy and stronger output, productivity and cost reductions in all of economic growth.
This is obviously beneficial for the our operations, which was made difficult by the sale of our products and it is a change and challenge headwind of shipping and energy costs.
The Indian that we welcome.
rupee was less volatile than many other currencies, with the average rate moving from INR48.5 to Exceptional demand from China and recovery in INR45.9 to the US dollar.
several western economies has driven metal prices up to high levels.
The level of metal prices does, of We raised US$825 million net of expenses when course, have a direct impact on our business.
Our we listed, in support of a US$2 billion capital volume, however, is based on levels of demand programme, of which approximately US$300 million within India and is less dependent on the global has been invested so far.
The balance is to be spread scene.
India has enjoyed a period of strong economic over the next three years, principally at Korba and growth and this is also reflected in our results.
At the year end net cash was US$422 million.
The capital raised, combined with the cash flow Zinc and Lead generated within the Group, will maintain our debt The zinc market was buoyant last year with average within prudent levels while enabling us to carry out prices on the London Metal Exchange of 40.8 US all of our plans.
cents per lb compared to 35.2 US cents per lb in 2003.
We are a fully integrated producer and this One aim of our strategy has been to simplify the means we benefit fully from any strengthening in Group structure and enhance shareholder return by the metal price.
Global demand rose fast at around increasing our ownership of the underlying assets 3% in 2003, but this was modest compared to an and reducing minorities.
Since Listing we have made increase in India of some 9%.
Nearly 75% of zinc two purchases of Sterlite shares and this has taken in India is used in galvanising and substantial our effective interest to 68.1% to date.
We recently investment in infrastructure is driving the demand.
reported a rights issue at Sterlite and we will take up any rights not taken by other shareholders.
This Our share of the Indian zinc market rose significantly should increase our holding further and will put cash from 62% to 75% during the year.
This was achieved into the subsidiaries for their development plans.
by increasing production and by tolling around Minorities share of earnings is similar to last year 36,000 tpa of excess contained zinc in concentrate.
This is partly due to the success of the Zinc We currently have surplus mining capacity, but as Business where minority interests are high.
This our own new smelting capacity is commissioned at number is likely to reduce moving forward, and was Chanderiya this tolled zinc will be moved through already running at 54% in the second half of the our smelters at higher margin.
year, reflecting the actions that we have taken.
Vedanta Resources plc 10 Annual Report 2004 Well positioned for future growth... Group Turnover and Operating Profit pre exceptional items by Business 223 35.4 221 29.6 2003 2004 2003 2004 Aluminium Turnover Aluminium Operating US$ million Profit pre exceptional items US$ million 76.4 593 65.6 407 2003 2004 2003 2004 Copper Turnover Copper Operating Profit US$ million pre exceptional items US$ million 401 155.7 291 60.4 2003 2004 2003 2004 Zinc Turnover Zinc Operating Profit US$ million pre exceptional items US$ million Vedanta Resources plc 11 Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives Review continued The output of zinc concentrate rose to 615,000 tpa Due to the tight copper market, combined 2003: 486,000 tpa and 74,000 tpa of lead 2003: treatment and refined charges TC RC during 56,000 tpa.
Production of finished zinc metal 2004 averaged around 8 US cents per lb against increased from 207,000 tpa to 221,000 tpa.
Several the average of 13 US cents per lb during 2003. initiatives were taken to reduce costs, through better We source a part of our concentrate requirements energy use, purchasing systems and productivity through our own mines and we continue to increase rates.
This reduced the unit cost of production our contracts in the TC RC market and thereby from 30.1 US cents per lb to 25.9 US cents per lb.
reduce our exposure to the spot market.
This was particularly pleasing given the increase in metallurgical coal costs.
We believe that further It seems likely that the market will continue to be work can be done, particularly in reducing power tight, though supply is slowly starting to recover and costs and making further operational improvements.
some global smelting capacity has been withdrawn as a consequence of the low refining charges.
We continue to make good progress with the implementation of our growth plans in the Zinc As our production numbers show, in spite of the Business.
Over the course of this financial year tight market, we were able to source copper and we are building a new power plant and smelter even increased production, with a focus on higher at Chanderiya which will take production there value areas.
Cathode production increased over the from 100,000 tpa to 270,000 tpa.
This should be year by 15% to 178,700 tonnes 2003: 155,700 commissioned by June 2005.
Over the same period tonnes, production of copper wire rods rose by we are increasing the output at the Rampura Agucha 29% to just under 123,000 tonnes.
With sufficient mine by 1.3 million tpa to 3.3 million tpa, which capacity for copper wire rods already in place, will feed the smelter and is due to commence in the additional conversion of cathodes into rods December 2004.
A captive power plant of 154MW is incurs minimal additional capital, but has produced being installed which should play a significant role in some US$20 million of EBITDA, around twice the reducing costs.
These expansion plans will lift our zinc previous level.
capacity from a total of 210,000 tpa to 380,000 tpa.
We continued to make strong progress on cost The Indian lead market has a demand supply gap reduction, with the unit cost declining from 9.1 US of around 100,000 tonnes.
We have consequently cents per lb to 7.8 US cents per lb.
This was mainly decided to more than double our refined lead achieved through reduced consumption of power production capacity at Chanderiya from 34,000 and petroleum products and improvement in tonnes to 85,000 tonnes.
The facility is expected recovery rates at the smelter.
to be commissioned by July 2005.
Over the year Tuticorin smelter has been undergoing Copper significant expansion from 180,000 tpa of capacity Vedanta is primarily a refiner of copper and the copper to 300,000 tpa.
The smelter and associated plant is market was challenging for us over the year.
Global mechanically complete and under commissioning.
We demand grew at around 2.6%, nearly twice the level anticipate that when the full benefits of the expansion of supply.
This was largely due to increased demand come on stream, we should be able to reduce our unit from China for refined metal and some unplanned cost by a further 2.0 US cents to 5.8 US cents per lb.
shutdowns at substantial mines, all leading to a very tight global market.
Stocks of copper reduced significantly over the year and copper prices reached a nine year high of 136 US cents per lb.
Vedanta Resources plc 12 Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives Review continued Aluminium The Aluminium Business is undergoing significant The use of aluminium in India remains modest change.
The major developments at Korba and compared to the rest of the world, but with Orissa will transform this Business over the next significant growth potential.
Increased global three years enabling us to both increase production demand again put pressure on prices, with average and significantly reduce our unit cost of production.
Alumina prices the A 250,000 tpa smelter is being built at Korba, which raw material for aluminium remained high being will take our total capacity from 135,000 tpa to driven by the demand from China as they increase 385,000 tpa.
A captive power plant, generating aluminium capacity.
some 540MW, is being built as part of this scheme.
The cost of this project is around US$900 million The production of aluminium at Vedanta is divided and should be commissioned by March 2006, between two separate Group subsidiaries, MALCO though the power plant should be completed some and BALCO.
Both companies have output close to months before that.
Orders for critical and long lead operating capacity with combined production of items have already been placed and work is currently 129,000 tpa 2003: 127,000 tpa.
Production has seen a modest increase, but there was a focus on During the year, work started on the alumina refinery improving product mix with higher value added with bauxite mining and captive power generation products, such as rods and rolled products.
We facility at Lanjigarh in the mineral rich State of Orissa, anticipate that the impact of value added products India.
The project should be completed by March will increase next year.
A new cold rolling facility of 2007, developing the fourth leg of our business.
It 36,000 tpa was commissioned during the year and will not only cater for alumina demand at the new will reach full production in 2005.
Korba smelter but will also help Vedanta access export markets.
The project is progressing on The unit cost of production at BALCO decreased schedule with critical orders for refinery and power from 56.8 US cents per lb to 56.2 US cents per lb, plant already having been placed and preliminary helped by an improvement in captive power site civil engineering works having been started.
production, which reduced our need to purchase more expensive power from the grid.
Our costs were Corporate Social Responsibility held back by the increase in caustic soda prices and As a major industrial company and employer the US dollar Indian rupee exchange rate.
There was we have an important role to play in our local a significant voluntary retirement scheme, which saw communities.
Although there has been much employee numbers decline by 775 to 4,000.
An growth and improvement in India over the years, exceptional charge of US$13.3 million was incurred there remain substantial parts of the population relating to this programme.
In carrying out these whose health and economic welfare is fragile.
We programmes we take full account of the welfare of are committed to working in this area and hope that the individuals, many of whom have worked with we can share the benefits of our success and growth the Group for many years.
Costs at MALCO rose over the year, from 48.9 US At all of our sites we make it clear that safety is of cents per lb to 53.8 US cents per lb, mainly as a the upmost importance.
We have achieved further result of rising fuel costs and an additional tax certification for both environmental and health and imposed by the State government on power safety, which is covered in more detail in the Corporate generation.
MALCO purchased imported coal, Social Responsibility report on pages 22 to 26. where prices rose faster than the domestic coal used for power generation at BALCO.
Vedanta Resources plc 13 Annual Report 2004 Strong operational performance... Vedanta Resources plc 14 Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives Review continued Looking Forward At all of our operations we strive to be low cost India remains a country of exceptional opportunities, producers.
This is the best protection from low metal with a population of over 1 billion, significant natural prices that we can give our business and this will resources and yet one of the lowest levels of metal help to ensure that we obtain the best return for consumption in the world.
Metal prices may soften shareholders should circumstances change in from current high levels, though stocks are low and metal markets.
the supply-demand balances in several areas suggest that pricing could remain firm.
We will continue to move forwards with our growth plans and continuing to improve the efficiency of our Regardless of the influence of pricing, the outlook for operations.
We approach the coming year with metal demand in India is strong and we are well placed confidence and with many opportunities to develop.
to take advantage of this.
We should be able to make further good progress at our zinc operations this year, Anil Agarwal increasing volume in line with Indian demand.
Tuticorin Chief Executive is ready to produce from the new furnace and, subject to receiving the permits, the benefits of this increased 18 June 2004 capacity and lower costs should be apparent over the course of the year.
We are operating close to capacity at our aluminium operations and although we will always try to push the limits further, the major change will be felt when the expansion project at Korba comes on stream in 2006.
There are several opportunities to simplify the corporate structure and we should be able to report some positive progress over the year.
In the first quarter we have carried out planned shutdowns for maintenance at Tuticorin copper and Chanderiya zinc and lead.
Tuticorin had been through an exceptional period of 24 months continuous operation, which is a tribute to the operational management.
These shutdowns will lead to a more modest first quarter, but without affecting our overall expectations for the year.
The growth pipeline at Vedanta is exceptional, with expansion projects of US$2 billion over the next four years trebling our capital base.
In the coming year we expect to make significant progress on all of our projects, with major commissioning coming in 2005 and 2006.
Vedanta Resources plc 15 Annual Report 2004 Uniquely placed...
