CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Acting responsibly around your world The workplace development so our people can maximise photovoltaic cells, which convert sunlight Cooksons success depends very much their personal potential and develop careers into electricity.
on retaining the commitment of the people within the Group.
We therefore strive to The community ensure our people have a safe environment The environment Cookson people all around the world are in which to work and that our employment Cooksons policy is to operate in a manner involved in community projects.
Here are practices are fair and equitable.
In 2004, we began a new programme Every member of staff at Vesuvius Safety to reduce energy use, including training India contributed one days salary to Our goal is zero work-related injuries and employees to understand energy use and help those affected by the December illnesses.
To achieve this, we have in place conservation principles and introducing 2004 tsunami disaster.
They also provide a worldwide initiative to improve safety energy audits to assist high-use sites in generous assistance to a number of performance.
The programme includes identifying and implementing conservation Indian organisations working to improve minimum standards of performance, measures.
This programme is already the health and education of underprivileged targeted assistance to high risk sites and a showing results.
At our largest energy children.
In addition, they support the variety of training and awareness activities.
consumption site, initial efforts will reduce development of young entrepreneurs From 1999 to 2004, our rate of injuries lighting costs by 70%.
within their local communities, helping and illnesses resulting in absence from The number of Cookson locations them to create small businesses, many work improved by 44%.
In 2004, 40% of certified to ISO 14001, the international of which become suppliers to Vesuvius.
Cooksons operations around the world standard for environmental management Freezing temperatures and rain did little achieved our goal of zero work-related systems, continues to increase.
By the to deter Electronics employees in Altoona, illnesses and injuries.
end of 2004, 36 locations had achieved USA from raising money in the American One area on which we have been working certification and 15 additional locations Cancer Societys Relay for Life campaign.
hard is the avoidance of work-related injuries were actively implementing the standard.
Recognition for their efforts came with the through better application of ergonomic This growth is an indication of the Rookie of the Year award in their first year principles.
The last three years have seen commitment of Cookson companies to of participation in the event.
extensive ergonomic training throughout improved environmental performance.
Cookson Precious Metals assists the Group and the establishment of community organisations including ergonomic teams at a number of facilities The marketplace YMCA after school programmes and with real results.
Many of Cooksons businesses are at the facility development, as well as helping forefront of developing lower environmental inner-city children through organisations Employment practices impact solutions for their customers and which work with disadvantaged, special Cookson believes that wherever in the society in general.
needs programmes such as the National world they work employees have the right The Electronics divisions leadership in Council of Community Justice in New York.
to be treated in good faith and on the basis the development of environmentally friendly of respect for the dignity of the individual.
products for electronic devices is detailed We recognise that job satisfaction requires on page 2. working environments that motivate our The Ceramics division contributes to the employees to be productive and innovative control of climate change by manufacturing and provide opportunities for training and crucibles used in the production of 6 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004 1 2 Work related injury and illness incident rates days away per 100 employees 5 4 3 2 1 0 99 00 01 02 03 04 34 5 6 Facilities with ISO 14001 certification 40 30 20 10 0 00 01 02 03 04 7 8 9 10 1 In 2004 the team at Enthone Singapore celebrated their business becoming the first chemical supplier in Asia to achieve ISO 14001 certification.
2 The Ceramics division manufactures crucibles used in the production of photovoltaic cells which are in turn used in solar panels like these to transform sunlight into electricity.
3 Employees at Vesuvius India provide generous assistance to many community projects.
4 Cookson Precious Metals supports after school programmes and organisations which work with inner-city children.
5 From 1999 to 2004, the rate of injuries and illnesses resulting in absence from work improved by 44%.
6 Electronics division employee Tim Wagner and his daughter Heather recently spent eight days in Guatemala helping with community projects.
7 The number of Cookson locations with ISO 14001 certification continues to increase.
8 Six Sigma Black Belt Training taking place for Cookson employees in Kowloon, Hong Kong.
9 Many of Cooksons businesses are at the forefront of developing lower environmental impact solutions for their customers and society in general.
10 Members of the Enthone-Cookson Electronics management team participating in a two-day team building exercise in Guilin, China.
7 Cookson Group plc Annual Report 2004
