Group Chief Executives Review Patrick Haren This has been another year of good progress by the Group.
Northern Ireland Electricity Pro-forma profit before interest and tax pre under-recovery, Transmission and Distribution exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grew from Transmission and Distribution revenues decreased by 3.7m 106.9m to 112.5m.
"Increased profits from Viridian Power due to the X factor of 5% in the price control and the & Energy and Sx3 more than offset both the net loss of reduction in the Transmission and Distribution regulated profits from the businesses we have sold and lower profits asset base ""RAB"" associated with the Moyle transaction, from NIE, now at the end of the second year of the offset by unit growth and inflation."
Based on regulated Transmission and Distribution price control.
entitlement, the business made profits of 73.9m compared to 76.2m last year, reflecting the reduction in revenues NIEs Transmission and Distribution business is meeting the together with renewed pension charges 6.0m out of the challenge of its cost reduction targets while successfully total Group charge of 12.3m and a higher depreciation absorbing renewed pension charges.
NIEs other businesses charge, offset by reductions in operating costs.
Operating continue to make important contributions: we are close to costs were lower on a number of fronts, notably due to agreeing with Ofreg an extension of the price control for NIE reductions in staff numbers, supply chain costs, information Supply to March 2007 and we have begun initial discussions technology costs and premises costs.
A substantial with Ofreg on extensions to the price controls for Power proportion of these cost reductions have been achieved Procurement and SONI, which currently run to March 2005. through ongoing rationalisation of our customer service centres and district work centres and a focus Viridian Power & Energy more than doubled its contribution on quality of customer service delivery together with and is now a significant business in its own right.
Huntstown plant achieved better than expected availability and heat rate and Energia expanded its customer base in We have invested in Six Sigma training and methodology both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
across the Group and are using it as a mechanism for analysing and redesigning our processes in order to achieve Sx3, the Groups IT and business services company, improved service quality and lower costs.
We continue to continued to improve its margins and profitability.
In assess opportunities for lower costs while maintaining our November 2003 we disposed of our Fleet business: this focus on standards of service to our customers, and have further releases management and financial resources to recently launched a programme to simplify the service concentrate on energy activities.
delivery processes within Transmission and Distribution and NIE Powerteam to achieve a more effective use of resources and a clearer focus on customer needs.
Capital expenditure on the network, related customer service systems and other non-network assets was 66.4m before customer contributions 2003 - 61.7m.
Network capital expenditure was in line with the regulatory allowance.
Page Four Group Chief Executives Review The modifications to NIEs licence required to implement the NIE Supply Transmission and Distribution price control were formally Profits based on regulatory entitlement in our Supply adopted in October 2003.
As part of the price control, we business decreased to 5.8m 2003 - 7.8m as a result of have continued to work with Ofreg on incentives to invest in renewed pension charges.
We expect to reach agreement demand side management projects involving renewable soon with Ofreg on an extension of NIE Supplys price energy and energy efficiency measures that may offer lower control from April 2005 to March 2007.
This will support cost alternatives to conventional network reinforcement.
To further investment in the new keypad meters which have date 17 projects totalling 1.9m have been proposed.
been promoted by NIE, further investment in energy efficiency measures and a new programme designed to Power Procurement SONI promote the development of micro-renewable generation Profitability based on regulatory entitlement from the Power focused on the domestic sector.
Procurement business and the transmission system operator, SONI, reduced to 5.6m 2003 - 5.9m reflecting renewed NIE Powerteam pension charges offset by increased trading income.
The At NIE Powerteam, our specialist infrastructure services current price controls for both businesses last until March business, operating profits remained flat at 2.4m 2003 - 2005 and we are in preliminary discussions with Ofreg on 2.4m reflecting increased revenues from external their extension.
contracts, offset by renewed pension charges.
Powerteam derives most of its revenue from the Transmission and In September 2003 Premier Power Limited a member of the Distribution business but increased its external sales to BG Group commissioned its new 600MW CCGT plant at 37% of total sales 2003 27%.
This increase was Ballylumford: Power Procurement has contracted for this underpinned by the award, in June 2003, of a three year plants output until 2012, replacing contracts with existing contract to refurbish up to 2,500 km per annum of ESBs units on the same site.
In July 2003 Power Procurement medium voltage network, providing revenues of up to agreed to sell 170MW of other capacity to Electricity Supply 18m per annum.
"Board ""ESB"" in the RoI through the North-South interconnector which links the Northern Ireland and RoI electricity systems, having contracted to purchase this Viridian Power & Energy capacity from units no longer under long-term contract at Viridian Power & Energy increased its revenues from Ballylumford."
This arrangement helps to address the 161.7m to 206.0m, with increases in both Northern Ireland capacity need in the RoI, brings a reduction in costs to and the RoI.
The business provided a significantly higher customers in Northern Ireland and provides Power profit contribution of 18.3m 2003 - 6.4m reflecting a full Procurement with a transaction fee.
years operation from our Huntstown CCGT plant and an increase in profits from Energia, our competitive market In September 2003 the Minister for Enterprise, Trade and supply business.
Investment announced proposals for payments of, initially, some 30m per annum towards the high generation costs Huntstown inherited from privatisation of the generating stations in The Huntstown plant achieved availability of 93% during the Northern Ireland.
These payments are intended to reduce year, reflecting a good operating performance and its first electricity prices to industrial and commercial customers.
"We continue to assess the They are subject to EU State Aid clearance, which is opportunity for a second generating station on the currently being sought by the Department of Enterprise, Huntstown site taking into account updated demand Trade and Investment ""DETI""."
projections from ESB and other factors which will affect the future supply demand balance.
In March 2004 the Environmental Protection Agency in the RoI issued its final allocation plan for carbon dioxide emissions under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
This set out a 74% allocation of emission credits for all generating plant in the RoI, including Huntstown.
Our expectation is that the net cost of the emission credit shortfall for Huntstown will be offset by increases in RoI electricity prices, leaving Viridian Power & Energy broadly neutral.
Page Five Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004 Northern Ireland Supply RoI Supply In Northern Ireland, Viridian Power & Energys turnover In the RoI, Viridian Power & Energys turnover increased increased from 64.7m to 78.1m primarily due to increased from 97.0m to 127.9m, representing increased volumes in volumes in the eligible market, an increase in prices due to the eligible market supported by Huntstowns 343MW higher use of system charges and support levies and capacity for a full year, higher market prices following a 3% increased sales from renewable sources.
Profits increased increase in ESBs tariffs and increased sales from renewable from 1.6m to 3.9m reflecting increased sales volumes sources.
Profits increased from 4.8m to 14.4m reflecting a together with better margins.
full years contribution from Huntstown together with increased volumes and improved margins for Energia.
"The Northern Ireland supply market comprises three categories of electricity customer: large energy users ""LEU"" The RoI supply market comprises four categories of approximately 750 customer sites : small to medium-sized electricity customer: LEUs approximately 800 sites : low enterprises ""SME"" approximately 57,000 customer sites : voltage maximum demand ""LVMD"" users approximately and some 684,000 domestic customers."
5,800 customer sites : SMEs approximately 161,500 customer sites : and over 1.7 million domestic customers.
Until recently, competitive suppliers such as Energia have only been able to access the demand of LEUs.
Generation for Up until February 2004 the competitive market in the RoI was the competitive market is sourced across the Moyle only open to LEUs.
Energias market share of the LEU sector Interconnector with capacity on the interconnector being was approximately 30% in 2003 04, supplied by our auctioned annually and suppliers contracting with generators Huntstown plant.
In February 2004 the LVMD sector and the in Great Britain.
Energia has maintained a 50% share by larger SMEs by volume became open to competition, in total volume of the LEU market.
The balance of the SME sector is due to open to competition in February 2005.
Since The SME market in Northern Ireland is opening on a phased February 2004, Energia has sold 40MW of capacity obtained basis during 2004 and 2005.
In April 2004 some 300 from ESB to newly eligible LVMD and SME customers where monthly-billed SMEs which tend to be the larger users appropriate margins can be achieved.
became eligible to participate in the competitive market.
By the end of the financial year, all 57,000 SMEs are expected to As in Northern Ireland, Energia can offer electricity from become eligible customers.
Energia is targeting selected renewable sources to the SME sector in the RoI prior to customers in this sector.
market opening and is currently supplying 2,600 sites.
Energia has used electricity derived from CHP generating The SME market in Northern Ireland is already open to stations in Scotland imported over the Moyle Interconnector competition for electricity supplied from renewable sources.
and the North-South interconnector to meet this demand: This market is expected to remain active for some time for this source of electricity qualifies as renewable in the RoI.
those SMEs which decide not to incur the cost of on-line metering required to participate in the full competitive There is currently no specific renewable obligation in the RoI.
Energia has been using contracted wind farm In February 2004 a consultation paper was issued on the capacity to supply SMEs on this basis and now has customers future policy of renewables in the RoI seeking views on operating on some 2,700 sites with a capacity demand of options and targets.
We have submitted our response to this 50MW.
DETI intends to implement a renewables obligation consultation and await its conclusions.
scheme in Northern Ireland similar to the schemes introduced in Great Britain.
As currently proposed, this will Viridian Power & Energy represents a natural avenue for require suppliers to source 6.3% of their capacity from growth for the Group.
Opportunities lie in further generation renewable generators by 2012. in the RoI, competitive market opening in both jurisdictions and growth in renewables across the island.
We have also submitted a response, as part of a consortium, to the CERs request for indications of interest in the construction and operation of an interconnector between the RoI and Wales.
Page Six Group Chief Executives Review Viridian Capital Sx3 Sx3s profitability increased from 3.4m to 7.1m, primarily driven by a higher contribution from its Applications Solutions division.
Turnover reduced marginally to 117.3m compared to 120.7m last year: turnover in the Infrastructure Solutions division fell but was offset by growth in other divisions.
The increase in Sx3s operating profit margin from 2.8% to 6.1% was driven by a greater proportion of higher margin services, against a matching decline in productrelated sales.
Our target for Sx3 remains high single digit operating margins.
Sx3 comprises three operating divisions: Applications Solutions, where we have a strong market position through our iWorld Revenues and Benefits and Housing applications for local government.
This division made particularly good progress during the year in migrating existing customers to the iWorld product set, in winning new customers for iWorld, and in selling other applications and services to its customer base.
Managed Services, where we are seeking to add to our existing contracts through leveraging off our strong market position in the local government sector.
The installation phase of the Classroom 2000 Lot 3 contract is nearing completion with most of the associated capital expenditure now spent.
Infrastructure Solutions, which comprises our reselling operations in Northern Ireland, Scotland and Boldon near Newcastle.
In this division we see opportunity for a better contribution through cost reduction and improved efficiency.
The Sx3 management team has concentrated on enhancing profitability and their success is reflected in these results.
Our strategy is to build on the companys strong position in the public sector, maintaining our focus on operating profit margins.
Patrick Haren 13 May 2004 Page Seven Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003-2004
