Group Chief Executives questions and answers Jonson Cox Group Chief Executive The way forward Im passionate about utility businesses, particularly water utilities.
What attracted you to AWG?
I saw this as an excellent opportunity to manage a water and infrastructure management company.
AWG has historically enjoyed a good reputation amongst its peers and with the Regulator.
Today the company is in need of reinvigoration and focus ahead of the next five-year asset management period.
The non-water operation of AWG also presents the challenge of defining its role within the group, and how it can deliver greater value to AWGs shareholders.
Ive been very impressed not only by the quality and experience What has impressed you most of staff around the business, but also by their resilience.
The past since joining AWG?
three years have seen the distraction of different strategies and projects, the debt refinancing, acquisitions and international diversification.
Throughout this period our people have remained resolutely focused on doing their jobs.
The group has many strengths: with a clearer direction, I am confident that we will be able to deliver improvements across the group.
First and foremost, the focus over the past three months What has been your main focus has been on the regulatory review.
At the same time, weve since joining the group?
carried out a business review, which has set out a direction for the next 12 to 24 months.
The review underlined the importance of Anglian Water to the group, and its position at the heart of the business.
Secondly, the review has led us into some of the changes that weve made in the Infrastructure Management Business to bring that business back to focus on operational delivery.
4 AWG Plc The group has many strengths: with a clearer direction, I am confident that we will be able to deliver improvements across the group.
Anglian Water is focused on the regulatory review and What are your priorities for the in preparing itself to work with the final determination.
In our final business plan we confronted the hard choices that had to be made between investment, service and quality improvements and the impact on customers bills.
As a result we were able to significantly reduce the capital expenditure and propose the lowest bill increases of any major water and infrastructure company.
One thing is clear the next five-year period will set new challenges and we need to meet them.
The business review considered a range of alternatives for the And your non-water business?
Infrastructure Management Business, but we decided that the option that offered the most scope to add value for AWG was to keep it within the group.
We have therefore strengthened the management of the team and focused it on improving margins, generating cash and building its order book with blue-chip clients, many of whom it already serves.
Our property business has been separated out from the IMB and will be reviewed in the first half of the next financial year.
During the year we have successfully sold the majority of our international business, which has considerably increased our focus on the UK.
This process has, however, given rise to a large proportion of the exceptional charges we announced this year.
Our business review underlined the importance of Anglian Water What can you say about the to the group and in delivering a consistent yield to our equity sustainability of the dividend investors.
We are therefore very conscious of the importance of the dividend to our investors.
This year we have again delivered going forward?
on our policy of maintaining our payments to shareholders in real terms.
However, in common with other utilities in the sector, our ability to maintain this policy will depend upon the outcome of the regulatory determination.
