34.1 71.7 58.0 45.2 40.6 CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Westbury has successfully delivered an eleventh consecutive year of profit, earnings and dividend growth and continued to strengthen its position as one of the UKs leading housebuilders.
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 Earnings per share p pre-exceptional items and goodwill amortisation Results Operating margin in our Homes while maintaining a prudent level Trading Environment business on 9 January 2004 levels expected to remain high.
The The Group has performed strongly, business improved to 16.0%, 2003: of dividend cover.
Our market benefited from the following the successful completion upward trend in interest rates is delivering a 11% increase in turnover 14.8%, following integration of the sound economic fundamentals of of various projects with which he moderating house price inflation, to 879.0 million 2003: 790.9 million.
Prowting business, producing a 20% Strategy stable employment and relatively had been closely associated.
Robin but we have the sites in place to Group operating profit before uplift in operating profit to 140.4 We have a clear focus to deliver low interest rates, coupled with played a key role in the development achieve planned increases in volume.
exceptional items and goodwill million 2003: 117.3 million.
growth by increasing volume and by demand for new homes continuing of Westburys corporate identity and This will be aided by the higher amortisation increased by 23% to driving improved returns from our to exceed supply.
The uncertainty in launching our important research densities achieved in PPG3 compliant 138.4 million 2003: 112.6 million Finances business.
In our Homes business, we created by the Iraq conflict made for and innovation initiatives including developments and the increasing after a reduced loss from Space4 of Gearing was reduced to 58% at the have increased margins by raising a relatively slow start to the year, but the setting up of Space4.
We thank proportion of apartments in our 2.0 million 2003 loss: 3.5 million year-end, in line with our plans, the performance of the former the business traded strongly through him for his contribution and wish business mix.
We welcome the and the achievement of break-even compared with 69% in February Prowting operations to Westbury the summer and autumn.
Although him well for the future.
conclusions of Kate Barkers review for Incresco 2003 loss: 1.2 million.
Interest was covered 6.1 times levels.
We have taken further action the buoyancy of the market was of the UK housing market, and hope by operating profit before goodwill to improve efficiency, notably by moderated a little by the rise in interest People for a rapid implementation of her After interest costs of 22.8 million amortisation and exceptional items, merging our West and Southern rates in the final quarter, we ended We were delighted to appear once recommendations to reform the 2003: 19.6 million, profit before compared with 5.7 times in the Regions with some sites transferring the year with a growing order book.
more in the Sunday Times guide to planning system.
This would taxation, goodwill amortisation and previous year.
Shareholders funds to the South West region.
Our newer the 100 Best Companies To Work For significantly improve the supply of exceptional items rose by 24% to grew by 57.3 million to 430.4 businesses are moving into the The Board in the UK, having been excluded land and the prospects for our 115.6 million 2003: 93.0 million.
million, giving a net asset value per delivery phase of their development Ian Durant, 45, joined the Board as from assessment in 2003 as a result industry as a whole.
Goodwill amortisation was 7.1 million share of 377 pence at the end of cycles, with our Incresco financial an independent non-executive of the Prowting acquisition.
Our 2003: 5.4 million, reflecting our February 2004, an increase of 15% services operation poised to move director on 28 October 2003, reputation as a good employer is We look forward with confidence first full year of ownership of Prowting.
from 328 pence in February 2003. into profit and Space4 well placed to bringing us the benefits of his important to us.
We believe that our to another year of success for In addition there were operating benefit from growing internal and considerable international commitment to maximising Westbury, as we continue to deliver exceptional costs of 1.9 million Dividend external demand in the year ahead.
opportunities for all our people plays our strategy for growth.
principally relating to the The Board is recommending a final George Inge, an independent nona key part in Westburys unique restructuring of our business: this dividend of 9.55 pence per share After year-end, on 11 March 2004, we executive director since 1995, retired culture and in our continuing compared with integration and 2003: 8.25 pence, a rise of 16%.
established Wescott Holdings from the Board on Ians appointment.
It gives me great pleasure reorganisation costs, relating to the Together with the interim dividend Limited, an innovative 50:50 joint I would like to thank George for his once again to thank all the members Prowting acquisition, of 4.3 million of 4.45 pence paid in January, this venture company with Bank of wise counsel and his outstanding of the Westbury team for their in the previous year.
Earnings per makes a total for the year of Scotland, which provides the joint contribution to the growth and individual contributions to our Geoffrey Maddrell share before goodwill amortisation 14.0 pence 2003: 12.1 pence, venture with access to 150 million success of Westbury throughout his record results this year.
Chairman and exceptional items grew by 24% representing an increase of 16%.
This creates new eight years of service.
We wish him to 71.7 pence 2003: 58.0 pence, with This is our eighth consecutive year opportunities for Westbury in a long and rewarding retirement.
Prospects unadjusted earnings per share, of double-digit percentage dividend aspirational developments and land The fundamentals of our market increasing by 27% to 64.2 pence growth.
We remain committed to trading while strengthening the Robin Davies, Business Development place remain attractive, with demand 2003: 50.5 pence.
providing our shareholders with supply of land for development.
Director since 1993 and a member for new homes continuing to sustained real growth in income, of our Board since 1995, left the outstrip supply and employment 2 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our stated growth plan is well on track.
We are ahead of our target set in 2001 to double turnover in our Homes business by 2006, while our newer business ventures are beginning to deliver.
Our long-standing and consistent half of the year to around 4% in the In total we sold 4,400 homes during to achieve this are included within 2003:1,100 and strategic land hope that the consultation process strategy has continued to drive second half, and will continue to the year at an average selling price the exceptional items in this years holdings of 22,200 2003: 23,000 on which the Government now profit, earnings and dividend growth moderate price increases in the of 191,700, compared with 4,461 accounts.
We have also created a plots.
Despite the continued plans to embark will be as brief as for the benefit of all the stakeholders current year.
With house prices units at an average of 171,500 in new divisional structure for the uncertainty of the planning system, possible.
Early implementation of the in our business.
Environmental, expected to increase in line with the the previous year.
We estimate that Homes business, grouping our nine there has been an encouraging main thrust of Kate Barkers ethical and social issues are the general rate of wage inflation, we are underlying house price inflation regions under four divisional chairmen trend in the delivery of strategic recommendations would be a very proper concern of any company well placed to offset this slower across our operating regions who are charged with driving further land to our consented holdings, as positive development for the UK and for housebuilders perhaps more growth with increased volumes in accounted for less than half this 12% improvements in efficiency and with we have begun to see the expected housing market as a whole.
In this years report we our Homes business.
increase in our average selling price, delivering consistency, as well as benefits from our larger targeted have placed emphasis on the which reflected our ownership of promoting best practice throughout investments.
We believe that this Wescott Holdings importance that we attach to Westbury Homes the former Prowting assets for a full our operations.
will be a growing source of strength This new company, established in corporate social responsibility, and The turnover of our Homes business 12 months, compared with 8 months to the business in the years ahead.
March 2004 as a 50:50 joint venture to ensuring that Westbury engages increased by 11% to 875.1 million in the previous year, and the increased Westbury currently offers products During the year over 1,300 plots with with Bank of Scotland, has two positively with its own people, the 2003: 789.9 million and operating exposure to prime sites in southern ranging in price from 80,000 to consent were delivered from this subsidiaries: Wescott Homes and communities in which we operate, profit before goodwill amortisation England resulting from the acquisition.
1.1 million, but our focus continues source.
Wescott Homes will and the wider environment.
and exceptional costs grew by 20% Our PPG3-compliant Renaissance to be on providing high quality undertake aspirational developments to 140.4 million 2003: 117.3 million.
range of house designs is being homes in prime locations to the The UKs protracted planning process of houses and apartments throughout Market background This represented an improvement in increasingly well received by customers mainstream market.
In the current remains the main constraint on our the UK.
We have sold our prestigious The UK housing market remained underlying operating margin from throughout our operating territory year we expect our average selling industrys ability to satisfy the Leftbank high rise apartment robust throughout the year and its 14.8% to 16.0%.
After an uplift from and now accounts for some 60% of price to be at a similar level to last countrys requirements for new scheme in Central Manchester to the prospects continue to appear 14.5% to 15.8% in the first half, as we our total output.
Our plans for continued growth homes.
We played an active role in joint venture at asset value to ensure encouraging.
In recent years the delivered on our commitment to are therefore firmly based on a providing information to the the new company is up and running supply of new homes has raise margins in the acquired Having completely integrated the substantial increase in projected investigation conducted by Kate from the outset.
This disposal has consistently fallen short of the rate Prowting business to Westbury Prowting acquisition, in accordance volume sales, in line with our strategy Barker of the Monetary Policy generated a net 30 million for of household formation, creating a levels, underlying operating margin with our plans, in November we to drive turnover growth to achieve Committee, at the request of the Westbury, after its investment in the deficit of perhaps as much as 50,000 in the second half showed a more consolidated our operations in our profit targets.
We have a strong Chancellor of the Exchequer, into joint venture, and has been used to homes per annum.
Employment modest increase from 15.8% to 16.2%.
southern England by merging our order book and after the first eight the markets inability to respond further reduce Group debt.
A second levels are high and expected to remain This reflected the fact that sales in West and Southern regions, with weeks of trading we have already to ever-increasing demand.
Her operating subsidiary, Wescott Land, stable, fostering the sense of security the period were somewhat lower some sites transferring into our secured over 90% of the half year sales.
recommendations include a range will focus on land trading, with the which encourages homebuyers, than we had originally budgeted, South West region based in of measures to improve the planning resources to commit the major although as we saw last year this primarily due to continuing delays Bridgwater.
This has created a wellLand and planning system and processes, the effect of investment needed to secure larger may be affected by external events in the planning process.
The balanced business across the Our land bank at the year-end which would be to allow normal sites in the open market without such as international conflict or completion of the underperforming southern counties and will deliver totalled 39,200 2003: 39,100 plots, market criteria to have a much having to form consortia with others.
Rising interest rates ex-Prowting sites had a marginally cost savings of around 3.5 million comprising 16,100 2003: 15,000 greater influence on when and Westburys skills in planning and slowed the underlying rate of house dilutive effect on the Homes margins per annum for the current year.
plots with planning consent, a where new homes are built.
We infrastructure development will price inflation, from 8-9% in the first across the year as a whole.
The reorganisation costs required further 900 plots with terms agreed strongly welcome her proposals and enable the new company to trade 4 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 5 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OPERATING, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL REVIEW shown by other major private Renaissance range permits increased housebuilders and housing densities without detracting from associations, as well as the growth the customer appeal of our from our Homes business.
We also expect to The business is set to deliver a steadily expand the proportion of flats in our improving performance as it builds mix to around 20% of sales: this towards its ultimate capacity of over reflects our increasing emphasis on 5,000 house shells per annum.
brownfield, urban developments as part of our response to the PPG3 Incresco planning guidelines.
The Our financial services company simplification of our regional broke even over the year, after structure in southern England will incurring a loss of 1.2 million in play an important role in enhancing focused 2002 03.
This improvement in divisional efficiencies and operating performance was based on a margins.
considerable increase in sales of its core mortgage and insurance Elsewhere in the Group we see our land profitably while providing the products, particularly through its newer businesses moving solidly Buying the right land The recent trend in delivering strategic Group with a secure supply chain successful online channel, into the delivery phase of their Focused on Land purchasing is critical to almost land to our consented holdings has for our own developments.
Offsite manufacturing every aspect of our business.
It is been encouraging, despite the opened a new call centre in Telford as a means of increasing housing regeneration and obviously a key determinant of the delays and uncertainty endemic in Construction costs to handle telephone sales.
We output is attracting much wider commercial appeal and financial the current planning system.
We We have continued to operate in an anticipate that further revenue support both from Government and sustainability success of any development.
But any hope that early implementation of environment characterised by growth in the current year will other operators in our industry.
We site acquisition must also be Kate Barkers recommendations will generally stable raw material prices enable this business to make its first are confident that Space4 will reap reviewed against a range of other streamline and accelerate this and significant inflation in labour contribution to operating profit.
considerable benefits from these criteria, including compliance with process, so that we and other costs.
This combination produced trends in the years ahead.
Government planning policy and our housebuilders can do more to meet overall inflation of some 5% in Westbury Direct wider obligations to the community the undoubted market demand for construction costs during the year.
This business is now fully integrated Although increasing interest rates and the environment.
Although the industry has devoted into our core Homes operation and will undoubtedly moderate inflation, increasing resources to training, in has gone from strength to strength, demand for new housing is firmly Our total land bank stands at 39,200 The recent joint venture agreement an effort to alleviate the skills further increasing its sales of homeunderpinned by demographic and plots, including 16,100 plots with between Westbury and Bank of shortages which are driving labour related products and services offered social trends and by the strength of current planning consent and 900 Scotland will give us considerable inflation, we have yet to see the to our customers and producing a UK employment.
Demand continues plots with terms agreed.
22,200 plots additional firepower in the fastbenefits of this investment.
We record 3.6 million contribution to to outstrip supply and we do not see are classified as strategic land, which moving and highly competitive land believe that this underscores the operating profit.
this situation changing in the near we expect to bring through the market, through the Wescott Land wisdom of our strategic decision to term.
We welcome the Governments planning process in due course.
This will enjoy ready access re-skill many on-site processes Future growth stated commitment to progressively to the funds needed to secure larger through the development of the We are looking forward to a year of increasing housing output in all of sites in the open market, avoiding Space4 manufacturing concept.
further growth for Westbury based our markets.
If, as we hope, reform of the traditional need to form on our proven strategy.
This will the planning system can deliver an consortia with other builders.
The Business development reflect a substantial increase in improved balance between supply new business will seek to provide Space4 volume in our Homes business and and demand in the future, this will Westbury with an even more secure The highly automated Space4 the delivery of improved returns on be an entirely positive development supply chain for our own factory at Castle Bromwich achieved capital across the Group.
for Westbury, the UK housebuilding developments, while trading a volume increase of more than industry and the country as a whole.
We have developed a specialism in profitably in land that is surplus to regenerating brownfield sites like 100%, producing a total of 1,300 We entered the new year with a our prestigious Century Wharf our requirements.
house shells and attaining breakstrong order book and, despite the development at Cardiff Bay above.
even in the final months of the year, vagaries of the planning system, the Breaking the ground at Poundbury in line with our expectations.
We number of active sites gives us where our Award winning Renaissance anticipate a significant increase in confidence in our ability to achieve house types have been chosen.
This Space4 output during the current the planned increase in Homes Martin Donohue range includes The Oakley opposite here at Lakeside, St. Neots.
year, capitalising on the interest output.
The success of the Chief Executive 6 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 Westbury plc Annual Report 2004 7
