Chief executive designate The best is yet to come Shareholder value Earnings growth I have great respect for what David We are committed to delivering We maintain our commitment to Thomas has achieved in transforming improved returns for our shareholders delivering earnings growth, principally Whitbread, in a number of tough and ensuring that they are kept above by driving organic sales and investing situations during his seven-year tenure our cost of capital on a sustained basis.
in opportunities to continue our journey as chief executive.
Today the company as a high growth company.
is in good shape, but I know that we have only just started.
David has been the first to tell me that Return on capital employed % Trading margin % we are still in transition from being a good company to being a great company.
Put simply, the best is yet 10 15 to come.
This summer we will be conducting a review of each brand to 12 8 be clear what value it can deliver to the Whitbread group in terms of pace, 9 6 materiality and synergy.
I see a tremendous opportunity to make 6 4 Whitbread a more integrated company with sharper focus, unlocking value 3 2 through greater synergy and more efficient ways of working.
0 0 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 page 10 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 We are still in transition from being a good company to being a great company.
Put simply, the best is yet to come Exciting times Strong cash flow Competitive edge As a business we are increasing the It is our brands that hold the key to I have been in the hospitality industry distribution of our brands, while at the Whitbreads long-term competitive all my working life.
same time generating strong cash flow.
We are I have the honour of being both council committed to delivering operational chairman for the British Hospitality excellence and being the best operator Association and a board member of our of the best brands in the leisure sector.
countrys leading tourism organisation, Market leadership will be judged VisitBritain.
not in terms of pure scale, but through Net cash flow m including disposals In many ways, I feel all this has been a balanced scorecard of value creation, in preparation for this tremendous customer preference and employee opportunity to lead Whitbread.
150 passionate about the task ahead and There remains significant potential deeply appreciative of the board who 120 within this business and I intend to have given me their unanimous support.
accelerate the strategic processes that 90 These are exciting times for Whitbread.
60 Leadership talent 30 What really matters is the quality of service that our employees deliver 0 everyday in more than 1,900 retail units across the company.
We are committed -30 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 to being the Employer of Choice and we already attract many of the most Alan Parker talented individuals in our industry.
Chief executive designate We are a people business and my focus 4 May 2004 will be continued investment in our people through world class development programmes.
