Chief executives review page 4 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 The company I leave is very different from the one that I took on as chief executive in 1997.
Whitbread is a more focused business: each of our brands has a strong claim to UK leadership: and the underlying prospects for growth in each of their market segments including four-star hotels are strong.
A pivotal year Marriott 2003 4 change Travel Inn 2003 4 change As my final full year with Whitbread, Sales 391 million 0.3 % Sales 230 million 12% the last 12 months have had special Like-for-like Like-for-like personal significance, but more sales 0.2 % sales 3.6% importantly they mark a pivotal Operating Operating point in the companys evolution.
profit 71.5 million 10 % profit 74.0 million 11% In an environment of rising business Return on Return on costs notably labour and insurance capital employed 6.2% 0.3 % point capital employed 13.6% 1.0% point we have had to work hard to improve margins across the group.
And by before goodwill amortisation of 8.0m focusing on growing sales on a like-forIt has been another good year for like basis we have been able to drive our Britains most popular hotel brand: Marriott has delivered another gritty return on capital employed above 10%.
a year of strong sales: and a year performance in a market that remains of double-digit profit growth.
Both Travel Inn and David Lloyd Leisure tough.
Operating profit has fallen and have recorded impressive growth in sales we have seen further erosion in return Occupancy dipped in the first six and profits and have pushed ahead on on capital employed, but we have months as our London properties return on capital employed.
performed better on profit per room suffered from broad market pressure: than our peer group average.
but after a steady second half we There is a renewed optimism around finished the year at 80.2%.
Beefeater, a brand that this year Occupancy has edged ahead to 71.5% celebrates its 30th birthday.
We have and I take heart from a gradual return The impact of price changes and a new format for the brand that is to like-for-like sales growth since the the increased proportion of rooms in showing real promise, while the overall half year.
Metro and Capital units pushed achieved improvement in the profitability of our room rate up 3.8% and helped to raise The disposal of a number of Swallow pub restaurants is a highlight.
room yield from 32.95 to 33.28. hotels in the second-half has reduced And by chalking up a 33% increase in capital intensity: reviewing the capital The addition of more than 1,000 profits, our high street restaurants structure within Marriott is a focus bedrooms on large leasehold sites led business has now exceeded its targeted for 2004 5. to a slight decline in operating margin: level of 25% return on capital employed.
but return on capital employed has We are exploring new ways of developing powered ahead to 13.6%.
While Marriotts profit per room the Marriott brand without the use of performance continues to improve in significant amounts of shareholder We maintain progress towards our relative terms against the sector, we funds.
Our agreement with Royal Bank medium-term target of 25,000 bedrooms.
recognise the need to generate better of Scotland to manage its Victoria & Having added more than 1,500 over value from the shareholder funds Albert Hotel in Manchester, under the last 12 months, we have ended the currently invested in the brand.
the Marriott name, is a good example year with 18,173 bedrooms under the of this approach.
I should like to express my thanks to everyone at Whitbread for making possible these first-rate results.
It is their dedication to serving our customers that separates Whitbread brands from the competition.
page 5 Chief executives review Pub restaurants 2003 4 change operating profit and return on capital and two development sites in the employed.
Raising returns by more than Netherlands from Cannons: developing Sales 590 million 1.3% 10% points in just two years has taken a club in Barcelona, Spain: and preparing Like-for-like this business past its 25% target.
to open in Brussels, Belgium in the sales 2.2% current financial year.
Pizza Hut has once again performed Operating well against its key measures, and has Return on capital employed across the profit 84.1 million 9.8% paid to Whitbread a cash dividend for brand as a whole including operations the year of 9.5m.
Costa has had in mainland Europe stands at 9.5%, Return on another year of strong profit growth while margin has edged ahead by 0.4% capital employed 11.5% 1.6% points and is making good progress through point to 24.1%.
T. G. I. Fridays remains strong at 73%.
A near ten per cent rise in operating continues to make progress in profit is a considerable achievement in We continue to drive considerable converting exceptionally strong sales a year when disposals totalled more than improvement out of our mature clubs.
per unit to bottom line growth.
Overall performance is set to improve further as a higher proportion of our We have made major gains in return on David Lloyd estate reaches mature levels of return.
capital employed and we have a higher Leisure 2003 4 change quality estate of pub restaurants than Britannia Soft Drinks we had 12 months ago.
Sales 202 million 10% Currently, Whitbread owns 23.75% of We have a new format for our Beefeater Like-for-like Britannia Soft Drinks Limited.
In March brand in 24 outlets, that are now sales 5.2% 2004 an exclusive bottling agreement delivering stronger sales, profits and was entered into with PepsiCo.
This has Operating returns: and we intend to roll this out created an opportunity for a public listing profit 49.1 million 12% to another 40 Beefeaters in 2004 5. for Britannia Soft Drinks as described in Return on Following the disposal of tail sites the Finance Directors review.
capital employed 9.5% 0.3% point we are also seeing sales and margin Britannia Soft Drinks enjoyed strong before goodwill amortisation of 0.4m improvement across the Beefeater trading, increasing profits by 28%, and estate as a whole.
David Lloyd Leisure continues to improve has paid to Whitbread a cash dividend Brewers Fayre Brewsters has against all key performance criteria, for the year of 11.6m.
strengthened margins and return with turnover, like-for-like sales, operating A more focused business on capital employed, but there is work profit and return on capital employed to do in broadening the appeal of all moving ahead.
The company I leave is very different Brewsters to drive sales from adult diners.
In the last three years, operating from the one that I took on as chief profit in the UK and Ireland has grown executive in 1997.
Whitbread is a more High street by 80% while the number of clubs has focused business: each of our brands restaurants 2003 4 change climbed from 44 to 56.
Membership has a strong claim to UK leadership: of David Lloyd Leisure clubs in the and the underlying prospects for further Sales 453 million 8.4% UK and Ireland now stands at 321,000. organic growth in each of their market Like-for-like segments including four-star hotels A reinvigorated approach to new club sales 3.1% are strong.
development gives us a strong platform Operating for growth: in February we opened our profit 28.5 million 33% 56th club, at Oxford: we have begun construction of a new club at Worthing, Return on West Sussex: and we have local planning capital employed 25.3% 6.1% points consent for sites in Aberdeen, Glasgow, excluding restaurant brands disposed Southend-on-Sea and Farnham, Surrey.
of in 2002 3 see note 2 to the accounts The brand has taken its first steps into David Thomas Our high street restaurants continue to mainland Europe: acquiring five health Chief executive drive significant improvement in sales, clubs with total membership of 20,000 4 May 2004 page 6 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4
