William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review more FOBTs, and the Group finished the year introducing coverage of live poker tournaments, with 530 AWPs 2003: 2,454. to attract more viewers and use the medium to In 2004, despite fluctuating promote the brand and other growth areas for Over the counter gross win fell in the second sporting results, the the Group.
half, partly due to adverse sporting results, Group continued to perform partly due to low theoretical margins and partly Towards the end of the year, we also introduced strongly whilst investing due to substitution into self service machine a new range of java based casino and slot betting via FOBTs.
For the full year, over the products suitable for GPRS and 3G generation in its capabilities for counter business was flat against last year.
mobiles to complement our already successful the future.
During the year we recognised that we could WAP sportsbook and arcade offering.
improve our manual settlement procedures to The launch of these two initiatives in addition speed up the recycling of winnings.
Once again, our ability to increase the Groups to our already successful internet sites provides Consequently, we have accelerated our roll out gross win faster than operating costs has UK domiciled customers with unrivalled of electronic point of sale EPOS tills and the allowed us to exploit the operating leverage in access to our business and the brand with replacement of text systems and fully expect to our business model and deliver strong growth a distribution ubiquity few competitors have them deployed by the end of 2005. in profits and earnings per share.
During the year we acquired 10 licensed betting The most significant variation in sporting We ended the year with 292,000 active offices, opened 17 licensed betting offices and results occurred in football, where the first half Interactive customers 2003: 247,000. closed seven units bringing our total number of of the year saw very favourable results for the trading shops to 1,606 at the year end.
In bookmaker, particularly in the Euro 2004 series Cost of content addition to the new licence activity, we of matches where a number of favoured teams extended or resited a further 39 shops and In November 2004, the European Court of fell victim to underdogs, whilst in the second shopfitted a further 86 shops.
Total property Justice ECJ delivered its judgement on the half we have seen a long run of favourites related capital expenditure on the estate for the interpretation of the Database Directive, which winning, both in the domestic leagues and key year was 13.3m.
had been referred by the Court of Appeal in European matches.
relation to the dispute with the British Horseracing Board on the use of certain racing We have also experienced some fluctuations in Telephone data.
This judgement supported the Groups horseracing results, which also saw a lower Telephone gross win grew by 7% to 60.3m, position, in contrast to the position adopted by level of gross win across the Group in the but profit was flat at 22.1m.
The channel the initial High Court ruling.
The ECJ second half, but this trend was exacerbated by continues to benefit from the increasing interpretation will be applied by the Court of lower theoretical margins, which are the direct popularity of betting-in-running but was the Appeal and the case decided at a hearing result of on course bookmakers hedging into worst hit by the profile of results in the second which has been fixed for June 2005.
half being the most vulnerable to higher meantime, the Group continues to contribute staking customers who are less inclined to 10% of gross win on UK horseracing via the Retail recycle winnings.
It is also the channel most statutory levy.
vulnerable to the impact of betting exchanges.
The Retail division grew gross win by 8% to 548.1m and profit by 9% to 165.5m.
The betting industry has contractual The main cost increases that resulted in a lower arrangements in place with 52 of the countrys conversion of gross win to profit were higher We largely completed our roll out of fixed odds 59 racetracks for the supply of horseracing levy charges due to an increase in gross win on betting terminals FOBTs by the end of 2004, pictures into licensed betting offices.
The horseracing, and higher IT recharges reflecting finishing the year with 5,573, although we will duration of these contracts varies from between the development of back office account continue to optimise numbers, siting and three and five years.
Average net profitability per terminal reduced during the second half, partly due to During the year the bookmaking industry We ended the year with 184,000 active the impact of the voluntary code of conduct, but agreed to an increase in the voluntary levy to telephone customers 2003: 171,000. mainly due to the dilution effect of adding the support the greyhound industry.
This three year third or fourth terminal into shops and our agreement will see a phased increase in Interactive winter trading hours.
During the year, we contributions from 0.4% of turnover on Strong underlying growth in poker, the online traded an average of 4,442 terminals 2003: greyhound betting in 2003 to 0.6% of turnover casino, and arcade products helped counteract 2,454 and achieved a full year average net in 2006.
It is the intention of the British the impact of adverse sporting results and the profitability per terminal of 370 per week Greyhound Racing Fund that the majority of division finished the year with gross win of 2003: 380.
We hope to improve profitability the increase will be directed at improved 106.1m, up 25%, and profit of 51.7m, up 39%.
in 2005 through a combination of product welfare for greyhounds.
The Group paid 2.8m innovation and improved contractual terms under the voluntary levy in 2004 2003: 2.4m.
2004 also saw the launch of our own TV station with our suppliers.
This was a deliberately Despite the increase in greyhound funding, we low cost, low risk entry strategy into interactive The number of Amusement With Prizes believe that the ECJ ruling greatly reduces digital television.
The platform has made an machines AWPs in the estate has been pressure for increases in the cost of content encouraging start and we will be expanding reduced through the year to accommodate across all sports.
expansion of the gaming sector are receding.
Full year expenses for the Group were Potential synergies between the betting and 332.5m, an increase of 6% on the comparable Going forward we expect underlying costs to be gaming sectors are reduced by the proposed period.
The rate of cost increases slowed contained to annual rates of growth of between structure of the legislation.
This reduces the through the course of the year and whilst costs 4% and 6%, although there will be a short likelihood of any cross sector merger or increased 8% in the first half against the term increase in one off costs in 2005 resulting significant acquisition activity for the Group at comparable period, the rate of increase fell from the introduction of the EPOS system and the current time, and hence our need for to 4% in the second half against the costs associated with the capital reorganisation.
flexibility in the potential use of capital.
Accordingly, we are intending to return Competition issues Much of the increase was due to higher staff a significant amount of surplus capital costs that were up 10% over the comparable The Office of Fair Trading has taken the to shareholders.
period reflecting extended opening hours in administrative decision to discontinue its our shops, inflation based pay awards and investigation into and close its case file on the Regulatory development higher pension costs.
Property costs were up formula used to calculate payouts on computer The Gambling Bill will be put before the House 5% over the comparable period reflecting straight forecasts and tricast bets.
Its review of of Lords during February and March 2005. increases in rent and rates, an increase in the rules of racing led to a number of changes Assuming it passes into law, we are advised average shop size, and an increase in the size which were reflected in the British Horseracing that it is unlikely to be fully implemented until of the estate.
The costs of providing pictures to Boards modernisation plans.
These are now the Gambling Commission is fully resourced our licensed betting offices were up 9% over subject to further change following the ECJs and operational, which is unlikely to be before the comparable period due to increases in ruling and subsequent reviews of the future the end of 2006, or early 2007. trading hours, the size of the estate, and funding and governance of the sport.
Advertising and sponsorship costs, Proposed regulations concerning remote William Hill is a major employer and pays including the cost of free bets and casino bonus gaming and the new licensing regime for significant taxes and therefore we believe that cash payments that are expensed in arriving at betting operators are the principal areas of the it is in the national interest to address the gross profit, were up 30% over the comparable Bill that will impact on William Hill.
We have unfair advantage enjoyed by layers on betting period reflecting incremental spend on the been lobbying through our trade associations, exchanges who compete directly with Euro 2004 football championship and increased the Association of Remote Gambling Operators traditional bookmakers without paying a sponsorship and web advertising and ARGO and the Association of British comparable level of gross profit tax or promotions.
Other increases relate to network Bookmakers ABB, to ensure that the new horseracing levy.
This inequitable taxation of and communication costs, up 33% over the measures are effective in accomplishing the layers on betting exchanges enables them to comparable period, as we improve links Governments regulatory objectives, without offer better prices than the traditional between administrative centres and licensed imposing undue compliance costs.
We continue to lobby aggressively betting offices, partly to support FOBT business, for a level playing field, and were pleased to but also in preparation for EPOS roll out.
In Capital reorganisation note that, in its recent review of gross profit tax, contrast, depreciation, bank charges including Background to the proposed Return of Capital the National Audit Office reiterated the need to charge backs and AWP rentals decreased assess the potential duty at risk across the compared to the comparative period.
William Hill was listed on the London Stock betting industry resulting from the tax Exchange in June 2002 and at that time the A number of the cost increases are driven by advantages enjoyed by layers on betting Group put in place a capital structure and our ongoing investment in information exchanges.
This opinion follows the financing arrangements to provide the optimum technology as we strengthen development and Chancellors statement in 2004 that the taxation capital structure for William Hill as a public support capabilities in preparation for the of betting exchanges would be subject to a full company, consistent with the Boards strategy.
introduction of EPOS and new back end review.
These financing arrangements were designed systems.
All expenditure on information to support a strategy focused on maximising Whilst the Gambling Bill has yet to complete its technology is subject to rigorous cost-benefit organic growth opportunities but also provided passage through both Houses of Parliament, it analysis, and tightly managed through the flexibility to pursue selectively valueis evident that the potential opportunities and 5 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executives Review enhancing acquisitions and enabled the Group In order to facilitate the proposed Return of Future strategy and dividend policy to adopt a progressive dividend policy.
Capital, a new holding company will need to The Board intends to maintain an efficient and be introduced as part of a scheme of flexible capital structure after the return of Since listing, the Group has pursued a strategy arrangement and reduction of capital that will capital and will use a combination of dividend aimed at delivering sustainable earnings require the approval of shareholders and the payments and share buy backs to achieve this growth and value for its shareholders.
The objective of these steps is to objective.
elements of this strategy have been to create sufficient distributable reserves to continue to enhance traditional earnings and For 2005, the Board expects to maintain facilitate the Return of Capital and future maximise organic growth opportunities, dividend cover on a per share basis broadly in dividends and share buy backs.
profitably exploit new platforms across all line with the level in 2004.
In addition, the betting channels, and capitalise on Funding of return of capital Board will be seeking authority from opportunities arising from regulatory, fiscal shareholders for a renewal of the on market In order to fund the return of capital and take and technological change.
Although the Group share buy back mandate.
advantage of the current favourable conditions has reviewed a number of potential investment in credit markets, the Group has secured new and acquisition opportunities, in particular in Timetable of events bank facilities of 1.2bn with a consortium of the context of potential gambling deregulation The Board will be posting a circular to banks.
On 2 March 2005, 600m of the new in the UK, the Board has maintained strict shareholders in mid April 2005 setting out full facilities became available and will be used to financial discipline and avoided pursuing details of its proposal to return capital and the repay the existing bank facilities in March opportunities unless they were demonstrably timetable of events.
2005 at which time they will be cancelled.
The Group Subject to the satisfaction of various conditions At this early stage, the Board anticipates that has made a number of small acquisitions of precedent, a further 600m of new facilities shareholders will be invited to vote on this and licensed betting offices and greyhound will become available once the scheme of other proposals at the Annual General Meeting stadia that have been funded out of operating arrangement and reduction of capital has been and the Court meeting on 19 May 2005, with cash flow.
approved by shareholders and the High Court.
the High Court sanctioning the scheme of All the new facilities have been provided on a In light of William Hills strong financial arrangement and reduction of capital in June committed and underwritten basis and performance and to help preserve an efficient 2005, and payments being received by have a five year term.
capital structure and maximise returns to shareholders in early July 2005. shareholders, the Board secured the authority Pension plan at its last Annual General Meeting to buy back Subject to the return of capital being approved 10% of the Groups issued share capital.
Since David Harding by shareholders, the Board has undertaken to this time William Hill has bought back Chief Executive make a special contribution of 40m to the approximately 6.5% of its share capital.
Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
The However, the Board has concluded that contribution will be spread over a period of William Hill could support a significantly three years and is designed to eliminate the higher amount of debt and to do so would be deficit calculated on a continuing basis by the in the interest of shareholders.
The Return of actuary as at September 2004.
The Board and Capital will restore the Groups financial pension scheme Trustee have consulted on this coverage ratios to levels broadly consistent specific proposal and believe it represents an with those established at the time of the appropriate course of action that properly listing.
In view of the substantial quantum of balances the legitimate interests of capital which the Board believes should be shareholders, and members and pensioners.
returned, the Board has concluded that the optimal mechanism would be a B share scheme which offers pro rata participation to all shareholders with full choice between income and capital elections.
