WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 08 08 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Chief Executives review Charles A Banks Group Chief Executive An eighth consecutive record year for Wolseley: High quality businesses directed by a proven strategy and led by outstanding managers I am proud and honoured to report that this has been the eighth consecutive record year for Wolseley.
In 22 of the last 23 years, we have seen either increased sales or trading profits.
Sales and profits stand at record levels as we once again produced double-digit growth.
On a constant currency basis, these figures are more impressive still.
What has driven our growth?
The principal reason that we have out-performed the market to a significant degree is due to our focus on high quality businesses directed by a proven strategy and led by outstanding managers.
We are also fortunate that a good economic environment in the UK and an improving one in the USA have played their part and that the bulk of our business is generated in these economies.
This years figures have also benefited from increased commodity prices, particularly those for lumber, copper and steel.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 09 09 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Meeting customer needs across two continents With a market share of around 24 per cent, Tobler is Switzerlands leading wholesaler for heating, ventilation, air-conditioning and behind the wall Whether they distribute pipes in Ottawa, help sanitation products, and is also one of the leading providers of technical to fix leaking taps in Provence or sell boilers in maintenance services.
Three further acquisitions were made in Europe, all in Arkansas, Wolseley companies are high quality the French building materials sector, at a total cost of 6 million.
We continue to look at opportunities in both Europe and North America, although the businesses that meet customer needs more balance in the year under review was weighted towards North America, effectively than the competition.
where 11 acquisitions were made for a total consideration of 64 million.
Stock Building Supply SBS acquired four businesses during the year Amongst the investments made during the year was a further expansion for 36 million in total, the largest of which was Bellevue Building Supply of of our distribution centre network on both continents.
In the USA, Ferguson New York State.
Bellevue operates from seven branches, a distribution centre, opened a new distribution centre in Richland, in the state of Washington, a truss manufacturing centre, a kitchen warehouse and a manufacturing and progress is well underway in expanding two of its existing facilities.
centre that specialises in doors, stairs, worktops and wall panels.
In France, Brossette has reorganised its branch and distribution network to improve operational efficiency.
With better distribution to an expanded Another source of growth has been the expansion of our branch network.
network of branches, customers are sure that when they visit one of our Branch numbers worldwide increased by 5.5 per cent to 3,637, with 62 added outlets, the products they require will either be in stock or be available in through acquisitions and the remaining 126 being net new branch openings.
the shortest possible time, with most branches receiving next day delivery.
In the UK, a net 97 branches were added, bringing the total to 1,513.
In mainland Europe, our branch network now numbers 880, including 30 new Customers tell us that they want easy access to branches and when they branches.
In North America, we welcomed a further 61 branches into the get there, they want to find the widest possible range of products and Group and our network currently stands at 1,244. employees who are knowledgeable and well trained in those products and their applications.
Wolseley as a Group is constantly increasing the number Whilst acquisitions fuel some of the step-changes in our performance, of products available at our branches so that whether a customer needs organic growth delivered by continuous improvement underpins the steady building materials, plumbing parts or underground pipes, more can be increase in Group efficiency and profitability.
During the year, our companies obtained from one place.
And for those customers who dont have the completed a number of reorganisations.
Ferguson integrated Familian opportunity to visit the branch, we can take orders over the phone, by fax Northwest, creating one plumbing and heating company across the USA, or through our websites which allows them to order from home and take while SBS reorganised itself into ten districts and changed the way it delivery of our products to the job site.
interfaced with suppliers and customers with specialist sector teams set up to service, for example, the national house builders.
Brossette in France Building for the long-term changed its management structure to enable managers to specialise and Wolseley is not in the business of continuously focus on either sales or branch operations and its branch structure was re-inventing itself to achieve short-term gain.
reorganised to optimise regional infrastructure and synergies.
We remain faithful to the strategy established over three years ago and which has proven itself as the platform for long-term success.
This strategy includes continuing with the aggressive % 23.2 branch opening programme, seeking growth from acquisitions, investing in infrastructure, and Group sales leveraging the Groups unique international position.
up 23.2% to A key component of the strategy is our target of double-digit growth through 10.1 billion acquisitions and organic growth, which we once again achieved in 2003 4.
In contrast to last year, when our acquisitions included the purchase of the French business PB & M formerly Pinault Bois et Matriaux PBM, at a cost of some m565 million 390 million, the last 12 months have witnessed fewer acquisitions but greater organic growth from existing businesses.
As I mentioned in last years report, the opportunities for acquisitions do not present themselves in a neat, evenly spread fashion to enable us to hit our target for bolt-on acquisitions of 200 million per year.
Provided they fit in with our strategy and meet our financial criteria, we seize them whenever and wherever they arise, which could mean spending over 500 million, as we did in 2002 3, or spending considerably less, as is the case with the year under review.
Fifteen acquisitions were completed for an aggregate spend of 124 million and I relish the prospect of bringing these companies into the Wolseley family.
The most significant purchase in the 2003 4 financial year was the 54 million acquisition of Tobler, which heralded our entry into the Swiss heating market.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 10 10 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Group Chief Executives review continued During the year both the UK and French businesses took the first steps to moving to new office accommodation to support their national businesses.
% For Wolseley UK, this means that ten offices are to close while the move to 31.0 a new head office will create a much more cohesive and efficient management team, leading all the UK brands.
Group operating Investment continues to be made in distribution centres, either with new profit up 31.0% sites being constructed as in the case of Richland, USA, which opened in November 2003, or through the expansion of existing sites, for example to 580.2 million at Front Royal and Fort Payne in the USA.
International leverage As Wolseley grows, so too does the potential for leveraging our size and expertise across the business.
During the year, further investment was made in our Groups infrastructure, in logistics, systems and human resources.
In order to support our ambitious growth targets and as part of our continuous improvement programme, we are bringing about greater cohesion across our operating units through leveraging our international purchasing, international sourcing and supply chain efficiencies.
In support of these initiatives, we committed to a major investment in a common IT software platform.
We have created a dedicated team, led by Rob Marchbank, Director of Information and Processes, which has appointed PeopleSoft as the key contributor for the project to manage the implementation of the technology throughout the Group, starting in 2005.
In the first two years, we expect to spend 30 million, and this investment marks the beginning of a concerted drive to bring our companies closer together, allowing them to share resources and work together to streamline the supply chain and generate new efficiencies.
Initially, the IT project is focusing on a common financial application which will provide all companies with detailed information, in a consistent way, giving us greater knowledge and control whilst helping us to address the complex governance issues which we face in different countries.
A number of other applications are also being developed for the common IT platform including, for example, a branch warehouse management New segments, new geographies package, which is being piloted by some of our plumbing and heating We have continued to implement a strategy businesses.
Significant benefits are expected to arise over the next of diversification, bringing new products to few years from the Groups improvement programme, enabled by customers in new geographic areas and in the common IT platform.
The common IT platform investment will leverage our software spend ensuring that all operating companies benefit from leading-edge For example, our acquisition of PBM means that Wolseleys proven technology and lower prices.
Long term, the IT project will bring even expertise in building materials can now win new customers among French higher standards of consistency and reliability to Group-wide data and construction professionals.
PBM, which trades under the principal brands key performance indicators.
of Reseau Pro and Panofrance, is the natural complement to our Brossette business, which already meets customer needs in the plumbing and heating As we begin to make our size count, we will be the winners, in terms of segment.
Together, these companies have given us a greater market share reduced costs, increased efficiency and a better return on our investments.
in France and provide a solid platform for future growth.
PBM will gain We will gain from purchasing economies, from international sourcing, significant benefits in the year ahead, as they draw on the building materials an increase in the use of our own brand products and economies of and timber expertise of Build Center in the UK and of SBS in the USA.
scale from greater market penetration, and our distribution centre network.
In addition, our customers will also benefit from access to more products, which will be supplied with even greater reliability and cost-effectiveness as, in partnership with our suppliers, we take costs out of the supply chain.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 11 11 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 This expertise in building materials distribution will also be available to Towards the close of the financial year, we launched the European the Brooks Group, acquired in Ireland after the year-end.
The addition Graduate Recruitment Programme, under the banner headline of of building materials and timber distribution to the existing plumbing Wolseley: Europes best-kept secret.
The Programme complements and heating business, Heatmerchants, offers the scale and cross-selling our established graduate initiatives in individual companies, and will opportunities already seen in the UK and France.
provide us with a pipeline of skilled, multi-lingual professionals able to bring a pan-European perspective to our business.
In terms of geographic diversity, the acquisition of Tobler has given us access to the important and profitable Swiss marketplace.
Tobler currently focuses We have also identified a set of management competencies that will on behind the wall sanitation, the hidden pipework of a typical bathroom help us to improve our performance appraisal processes, assess our or plumbing project.
Now Tobler is eager to examine ways of selling a more current pool of talent and develop programmes that meet our future diverse product offering such as in front of the wall products where our human resources needs.
A new programme of long-term international expertise will help them.
At the same time, we intend to exploit Toblers assignments is enabling our people to share knowledge across national knowledge of underfloor heating and, where appropriate, to incorporate borders and cultures.
The past 12 months have seen a steady flow of it into our other businesses.
Wolseley managers crossing the Atlantic to apply the lessons learnt in one business to the challenges faced in another.
In 2003 4, SBS expanded into several new cities in the USA.
High quality, cost-effective building materials are now available to customers in cities as More efficient, lower cost, enhanced margins far apart as Los Angeles, California to Boston, Massachusetts and Rush We have enjoyed a tremendous year but there is City, Minnesota to McAllen, Texas.
At the heart of the Wolseley culture is the desire to create innovative In the UK, Bathstore.
com completed its first full financial year as part of the Wolseley Group.
Where our other UK businesses, such as Plumb Center, solutions for our customers.
Armed with expertise sell to customers through warehouse-style operations, Bathstore.
com gained through experience in 13 countries, we enables us to reach a new customer base through a network of stylish, constantly invest in our infrastructure in the hunt up-market showrooms.
Over the 12 months, the number of showrooms for more efficient, lower cost and better ways has increased from 33 to 58. of working, which enhance our margins.
Best practice sharing has become a strong feature of the Wolseley culture in the past year and this has been demonstrated in the way that the One of the highlights of the year under review was the inaugural Wolseley Wolseley UK model of small express branches were piloted at five Cup, a new internal competition aimed at generating and circulating Ferguson locations in the USA.
The success of these pilots has resulted innovative thinking.
As we get bigger, we need to leverage our creativity in the decision to roll-out more than 50 of such XpressNet branches in and resources, and the high quality of the Cup presentations demonstrated the year to 31 July 2005. what we can do when we begin to share and work together.
The following pages detail just six of the ways in which we are providing innovative new People make the difference solutions for our customers, including the winning Wolseley Cup entry from our Ferguson business in the USA, together with those from the What is it that makes Wolseley the company two runners-up: Wolseley Canada and Wolseley UK.
Looking beyond the branches and the distribution centres, the products and the The ideas that sprang forth from the Cup are practical as well logistics, I believe that it is the quality of our as inspirational.
These are real examples of how innovation and commitment are transforming the way in which we work.
Great ideas people that sets us apart.
Our customers rely have to be nurtured if they are to fulfil their full potential, so I have asked on the combined efforts of our 50,000 people all seven Cup finalists to update the evaluation committee on their to provide the right products and services, progress and compete in a new competition, the Graduate Cup.
when and where they need them.
Next years Wolseley Cup will reflect our increased focus on human Over the last year we have continued to expand our commitment to resources and focus on achievements which have promoted our developing human resources.
We are unique and too large to rely on our people recruitment, retention and development throughout the Group.
peers to train the talent we need for the future, so we invest considerable sums to ensure that we attract and retain the brightest people in the industry.
Our Executive Education programmes are delivered by the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia and also by the IMD in Lausanne, Switzerland.
More than 160 senior executives have attended Darden since 2000, while 80 attended IMD in November 2003 alone.
We intend to double our commitment in the coming year, with two programmes scheduled for each venue.
WO10065 01-43 12 10 04 11:14 am Page 12 12 Group Chief Executives review Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Looking ahead with confidence This has been a great 12 months for Wolseley and I believe that the coming year will prove no less rewarding.
We have the right strategy in place and it is being executed with skill and passion by a great management team.
We have identified further opportunities for geographic and product diversification, and are investing significantly in the human and technological resources that will enable us to seize these opportunities with vigour.
I am proud of our achievements and confident that we will continue to meet customer needs by providing the right products and services, when and where they are needed, at competitive prices.
Charles A Banks Group Chief Executive
