Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executives statement Alistair Cox, Chief Executive 18 Tim McGrath & Mike Groves Stability is returning to our business after a period of What were building: We are part challenging market conditions and organisational change.
of Xansas commercial team building Whilst the environment we operate in remains highly solutions including innovative, competitive, we are witnessing early signs of cautious performance-based pricing optimism towards recovery.
In particular, future growth mechanisms for our BPO operations.
These mechanisms will ensure rates in IT Outsourcing ITO and Business Process Outsourcing excellent value for our clients, BPO are expected to be strong.
We are building our business incentivising superior performance and positioning ourselves to take advantage of these trends.
and continuous improvement for long-term mutual benefit.
I believe the progress we have made in the last 12 months shows that we are on track with the development and implementation of our strategy.
We have made significant progress this year in focusing Xansa on opportunities where we believe we can grow our business and deliver superior returns.
Unprofitable operations have been exited.
Investment has been channelled into Bapineedu Bollempalli those areas where we believe we can achieve scale and a What Im building: I am a senior software engineer for a major strong market presence.
We have a new organisational banking client.
My team is model built around our client teams.
All our efforts are developing a solution to provide aligned to support these teams to ensure we deliver excellent our client with a single customer view and complete repository of service to our clients, generate profitable growth for our information.
In turn, this will shareholders and develop our people as a potent workforce.
contribute to the clients capability We are starting to see the benefits of this focus.
Our business performance is stabilising and second half underlying performance has improved.
Our client teams are building new innovative propositions.
These increasingly combine our skills in IT and BPO as these two sectors converge.
We are generating a healthy pipeline and accelerating our deal closure rate.
We have almost doubled the scale of our India operation this year to nearly 1,900 people.
More significantly, we have more closely integrated our international teams comprised of a mix of onshore and offshore talent that is unique in todays marketplace.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 We have made significant progress this year in focusing Xansa on opportunities where we believe we can grow our business and deliver superior returns.
Alistair Cox, Chief Executive The performance of Xansa Recruitment reflected the continuing difficult market for contractor recruitment and placement in the UK with revenues down by 17% to 31.8 million.
Despite this, the business continues to be profitable.
Recruitment remains an integral part of our business as it provides us with ready access to contractors and allows us to maintain flexibility in our cost base.
At year-end, we had 351 contractors placed with external clients, which reflects the reported revenue figures, and 690 employed directly on Xansa accounts.
India continues to play an increasingly vital role in Our goal is to enable our clients to run their own businesses our operations and propositions.
Twenty-two of our top 30 more effectively.
We are achieving this by leveraging our clients use our India delivery capabilities, and the total technology and business process skills to better operate revenue generated by the India workforce as part of the an increasing number of critical operations across the end-user revenues has increased by 23% from the previous clients business.
Not only does this drive real and lasting year to 38.7 million.
savings, it frequently delivers revenue growth for our clients as well as releasing their own resources to focus on what they do best.
We differentiate ourselves by the way we Rowan Taylor work with our clients.
Our client relationships are based What Im building: I am a senior on trust and operating in true partnership with mutual client manager building a strategic dependencies.
We are frequently told this open and flexible relationship with a major provider of insurance services.
My team approach is an aspect unique to Xansa and helps explain is delivering complex applications our ability to nurture strong and long-lasting relationships.
development services within a regulatory environment that is building the clients confidence Business performance The significant changes to the in Xansas world-class ability to business have been reflected in our performance this year.
deliver integrated onshore and Turnover dipped by 7.6% to 419.5 million, operating offshore services.
profit dropped 9.1% to 26.1 million, and operating margins declined slightly by 0.1% to 6.2%.
These movements The provision of integrated onshore and offshore are due to the planned exit from unprofitable operations delivery is now a mandatory component of a substantial and termination of the First Banking System FBS joint majority of our private sector bids.
Clients often specify business venture with HBOS.
the need for offshore service components that go Within the UK, revenues for the continuing business beyond cost reductions.
Clients also value the quality and excluding FBS increased by 5% to 363.7 million compared flexibility of these skills, tailored to their needs at different with the previous year.
This included a slight improvement points in time.
in the second half to 182.1 million from 181.7 million.
This demand has allowed us to almost double the scale FBS, our successful joint venture with HBOS, concluded in of our India operations.
This increased scale is in turn now December.
Consequently, revenues for FBS this year were allowing us to compete for larger opportunities.
35.2 million, with 28.3 million in the first half, compared Before distribution of shares from the trusts, reorganisation costs, goodwill amortisation and to 64.9 million in the previous full year.
impairment and loss on disposal of businesses Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executives statement continued Esther Lawrence What Im building: I am a software developer in Lawsons Offshore Development Centre ODC.
My team contributes to Lawsons success in their offshore activity by delivering complex, quality work on time while achieving both Lawson and Xansa high standards.
This in turn helps Lawson deliver excellent world-class Enterprise Resourcing Planning products and services to their clients.
Significantly, we have created a new route to service the 20 US market directly from India without the need for local infrastructure in the US.
To date through this approach we have successfully won a multi-million dollar, three-year contract with Lawson Software to provide offshore development support.
We will continue to invest in this approach to further leverage our India operations.
We continue to keep tight control on our Corporate costs and the cash management of the business.
Our corporate costs fell by over 29% to 6.2 million and now represent 1.5% of revenue.
Cash control remains central to our operations.
Our net debt position was 7.0 million compared with a net cash position of 3.8 million last year.
Overall, our debtor days for the full year were 35, an improvement of 3% from the previous year.
Further evidence of our progress is targeted growth in the Orderbank in the second half, after a decline in the first six months.
At the full year, the closing orderbank was To date we have invested nearly 17 million in our 500 million, up by 18 million from the Interim position development and processing centres in Noida, Chennai and in October 2003, although a decline compared to the previous Pune to bring our capacity today to 2,625 seats on a single full year of 12%.
The total orders taken in the year was shift basis.
We have increased headcount by 80% from 350 million, with a noticeable improvement in the second 1,046 to 1,886 at year-end and expect further significant half of 212 million compared with 138 million in the first half.
increases in the next financial year.
Top 30 Clients Most important though is the integration of our India and UK teams.
Our client-focused organisation allows us to Insurance, Banking Utilities, TMT operate single and sizeable teams comprised of colleagues and Business Services based both onshore and offshore.
This significantly reduces AVIVA BT risk for our clients and any distinction in geography is AXA SunLife Centrica Barclays EDF Energy invisible to them.
Clifford Chance O2 Outside of the UK, we exited unprofitable operations.
Co-operative Financial Services RWE npower In Asia Pacific, we sold our operations in Malaysia.
Experian RWE Thames Water In Singapore, we have rationalised our business and HBOS Scottish & Southern Energy Legal & General Walt Disney Company are currently completing remaining client obligations prior Lloyds TSB to a full exit.
In Continental Europe, we sold our Belgian Zurich and Dutch operations.
In France, we have now closed all local operations.
In North America, we exited our local Retail, Logistics Govt, Aerospace and Defence operations, leaving a small core to service existing client ARDEC Boots obligations.
As a consequence of these actions, the overseas Diageo Dept for Work and Pensions HM Customs & Excise DHL Systems operations generated 20.6 million revenue this year, of Marks & Spencer Learning and Skills Council which 15.7 million was in the first half, compared with Office of the Deputy Prime Royal Mail 42.6 million in the previous year.
Losses for the full Tesco Minister Whitbread New to the top 30 in the year year were reduced to 1.7 million from 4.8 million in the previous year.
Before distribution of shares from the trusts, reorganisation costs, goodwill amortisation and impairment and loss on disposal of businesses Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Xansa turnover by Industry % Banking & Business Services Retail & Logistics Telecoms Insurance Government Utilities Aerospace & Defence 2 5 8 32 9 19 25 Kirk Heuser To fuel this orderbank, we have taken some significant What Im building: I am a sales Orders throughout the year.
The largest, announced in consultant for Xansa Recruitment May 2003, was the 1.5 billion outsourcing of Royal Mails & Training.
I work closely with IT operations to the Prism Alliance, within which Xansa clients to build Flexible Resource Management solutions.
This enables provides application management and software development them to access a wide pool of services and solutions.
Our services are valued at up to resources, on a project basis, whilst 180 million over ten years with an initial orderbank value retaining essential management of 66 million over five years.
and supporting infrastructure for their customers.
We signed over 44 million of orders with Barclays extending over the next three years, including a significant extension to the Xansa Barclaycard Partnership, covering business process and IT services.
Our relationship with BT continues to go from strength to strength.
We signed additional orders of 39 million covering the next four years.
The quality of the BPO service we provide was recognised by our winning first place in the first European annual awards for excellence in shared services, judged by peers from leading shared service centres.
In Government, we secured several key contracts.
We agreed a revised contract with the Learning and Skills Council to provide IT systems development, support and associated services.
This contract has a potential value of Vijay Chandiramani 38 million over three years and a minimum commitment of What Im building: I am a senior 12 million for the first year.
For the Department of Work client manager in the Government sector.
By leveraging expertise and Pensions, we won a three-year contract renewal on from across Xansa, I am building behalf of Worktrain, to continue providing development an effective business relationship support and a hosting service to this internet service with my client.
We provide strategic e-enabled IT services that help my for national jobs, learning and careers.
Most recently, client deliver thriving, inclusive and we announced that the Office for National Statistics had sustainable communities through selected us as its strategic IT transformation partner to a joined-up approach.
help deliver its modernisation programme.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 Chief Executives statement continued We are increasingly operating at the very heart of our clients businesses, working with them inside their operations to drive real value in terms of cost efficiency, revenue growth and improved customer satisfaction.
Alistair Cox, Chief Executive 22 A 33 million minimum seven-year contract to provide Accounting & Finance Services A&FS to MyTravel was announced in March.
This outsource leverages our existing A&FS Oracle platform and supports MyTravels core UK Liz MacLeod business.
The contract includes payroll, accounts payable What Im building: I am a project manager in Xansas Accounting & and receivable, financial reporting and application Financial Services Shared Service management support.
I specify and test the Just after the year-end, we announced further contract design for the invoice workflow and extensions with Boots valued at over 11 million over approval system for a large telecoms client.
This system will enable the five years and with BT for 10 million over three years.
client to authorise invoices online and speed supplier payment.
Workforce Overall employee numbers have increased by 5.5% to 5,189 from a year ago.
In the UK, numbers declined by 11% to 3,264.
This included 429 colleagues who left the Company as a part of the FBS to HBOS transition, whilst we welcomed 214 new colleagues from Royal Mail and 151 from MyTravel.
In India, we ended the year with 1,886 colleagues, up from 1,046 a year ago.
As we complete our overseas exits, we retain 39 people who are concluding the Arvind Kanaujia handover processes.
What Im building: I am the People are at the core of our business as it is our people service manager at Xansas IT that deliver value to our clients.
To build our business, we services desk in India.
I am building relationships with Xansa have recruited heavily in India.
Simultaneously, we are employees internationally so they investing in training and development in both India and the have confidence that they are UK to ensure that we equip our teams with relevant skills in valued customers and can rely on timely and efficient delivery of the most appropriate locations to compete effectively in a IT Support solutions.
Xansa Report & Accounts 2004 David Blamire-Brown What Im building: Im a project leader for a large retail client.
I ensure that Xansa works as an effective team with our client.
Together, were building a simple-to-use reporting system for complex sales data.
This enables the client to share new information with suppliers, build more collaborative relationships and increase revenues.
Strategy and outlook Our strategy is based around three themes.
Growing our business in the UK market in both the public and private sectors Selling and delivering solutions that reflect convergence and growth of IT & BPO Leveraging our integrated onshore and offshore capabilities We anticipate modest recovery in the UK private sector market and steady growth in the public sector over the next 12 months.
The mix of services is changing and clients are demanding new solutions that deliver end-to-end turnkey This growth, combined with our ability to leverage our services to their business.
The majority of these propositions much reduced overhead structure will allow us to improve derive significant benefit from combining offshore skills our margins.
with those available in the UK.
We are increasingly operating at the very heart of By focusing our business on these themes, I expect our clients businesses, working with them inside their to deliver profitable sales growth, improving margins, and operations to drive real value in terms of cost efficiency, to further enhance our reputation for client satisfaction.
revenue growth and improved customer satisfaction.
Our investment in our sales and business development is Our skills in technology-enabled business processes will showing encouraging results and the underlying UK-based enable us to build our business as clients rely on us to business is expected to continue to grow, albeit in a operate an ever-broadening series of their processes and challenging marketplace.
We are targeting growth in the services, freeing them up to concentrate on their own orderbank over the next 12 months as these teams strategies and customers.
concentrate on building our pipeline.
The market is now stabilising and progress to date puts Today we are the largest UK-based supplier of offshore Xansa on track to capture a leading position in the provision IT services to the UK market.
We pioneered investment of these services as the market begins its recovery.
in India and enjoy a long track record of operating clientfacing teams comprised of both onshore and offshore workforces.
As demand for offshore services accelerates this track record is a key differentiator as it allows us to significantly reduce risk to our clients.
We will continue to build scale in India and foresee a broad balance of workforce numbers between UK and India by the year-end.
