0147 Xstrata AR 2005 1-70 29 3 05 11:37 am Page 4 04 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2004 chairmans statement Governance The Board of Xstrata believes that effective governance structures and procedures are essential to the long-term sustainability of our business.
Xstratas Board comprises nine non-executive directors, six of whom are independent, and during 2004 the Board undertook a rigorous and formal assessment of its own performance and the performance of individual directors, led 4 by David Rough, the senior independent non-executive director.
Following the implementation of the Group-wide comprehensive risk management system and internal audit processes in 2003, subsequently extended to all former MIM sites and offices, a Group-wide risk management policy was agreed by the Board.
This policy articulates our belief that risk is an intrinsic part of our business and is inseparable from opportunity.
The objective of our risk management system is to ensure an environment where we can confidently grow shareholder value through 0 developing and protecting our people, our assets, our environment and our reputation.
1 2 A Group health, safety, environment and community policy was also introduced during 2004, which sets out our commitment 3 to the highest standards of health, safety and environmental performance, community co-operation and to the principles of 4 sustainable development.
To support this commitment, 17 health, safety, environment and community management standards, 5 supported by a comprehensive assurance programme, were developed and implemented during the year.
Each site will be 6 independently audited against these management standards by the end of 2005.
7 8 Health, safety, environment and community performance 9 Improvements in operational efficiency and productivity at our operations were accompanied by above-average improvements 0 in health and safety performance.
Overall, Xstrata achieved a 30% reduction in the Group total recordable injury frequency 1 rate and a 33% reduction in the lost time injury frequency rate.
2 3 These substantial improvements were achieved across our businesses, but were particularly marked at the former MIM 4 operations in North Queensland, where safety improvements formed an integral part of the transformation programme.
5 Here, again, Xstratas decentralised management structure played a central role, as safety officers were taken out of 6 corporate offices and put back into the operations.
7 8 However, while we can feel pleased that these improvements were made, there is no room for complacency.
Six people lost 9 their lives working at our operations in South Africa during the year.
This is a situation which neither I nor any of the directors 0 or executive management find acceptable.
It is difficult to imagine the impact these deaths will have had on families and 1 friends, and I extend my deepest sympathies to all those affected by this tragic loss of life.
2 3 It is my firm belief that it is possible to run our operations without any loss of life or injury indeed, our overall aim is to achieve 4 zero harm to any of our employees, contractors, local communities or stakeholders.
This is a major priority for Xstratas Board, 5 executive management and for all of our employees in 2005.
6 7 Our South African operations in particular face the challenge, in common with other South African mining and metals groups, 8 of ensuring employees align their behaviour to a risk-averse workplace.
To address this challenge, we implemented a major 9 behavioural safety programme across our South African operations and made a number of senior appointments to transfer 40 best practice knowledge and experience from our other high-performing operations, particularly in Australia.
41 4 0147 Xstrata AR 2005 1-70 29 3 05 11:37 am Page 5 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2004 | 05 In early 2005, the Board established a Health, Safety, Environment and Community HSEC Committee, chaired by Ian Strachan, 1 a non-executive independent director, and comprising Mick Davis, David Rough and Fred Roux as members.
The formation 2 of this committee underlines the Boards view of the importance of health, safety, environmental and community issues to 3 the Group and its commitment to ensuring Xstrata attains the highest possible standards in these areas.
4 5 Community engagement remains a fundamental part of our business, and in 2004 we spent $10.5 million on corporate social 6 involvement initiatives to benefit the communities that host our operations, our employees and their families.
7 8 A more detailed review of our social, environmental and health and safety performance is provided in our Sustainability Report, 9 published separately and available on our website.
10 11 Conclusion 12 As I suggested in my report last year, the structure of the metals and mining industry has improved significantly over the past 13 several years, with consequent improved returns for companies in the sector.
Underlying growth in demand for power, metals 14 and minerals remains strong, particularly in China and India, and while producers have begun to respond to the tightness in 15 specific commodities, the major companies in the industry have not initiated unwarranted new projects or expansions based 16 on prevailing commodity prices or unrealistic long-term assumptions.
In many commodities, there has been an under-investment 17 in exploration and a number continue to face infrastructural constraints on increased supply.
The outlook suggests an extended 18 period of sustained commodity price strength.
19 20 Xstrata remains exceptionally well positioned to secure further value for shareholders from this point in the cycle.
The strong 21 commodity prices of 2004 have risen further in the first three months of 2005, with the likelihood of higher received prices in 22 the Groups key businesses this year.
Importantly, the operational efficiency programmes across the Group will deliver further 23 benefits in 2005 and the Group will reap the reward of volume increases as a number of internal projects, such as the Rolleston 24 open-cut coal mine and the Black Star zinc-lead open pit operation, come on stream this year.
25 26 The longer term future for the Group is similarly positive and rests on our proven capacity to grow Xstrata and to run our 27 operations with ever greater efficiency.
The significant improvements in operating performance, profitability and health and 28 safety indicators since the acquisition of the coal assets in 2002 and of MIM Holdings in 2003, have demonstrated the strength 29 of the Groups business model.
We remain confident of our ability to leverage Xstratas size and momentum to seize further 30 opportunities that have potential to deliver value for shareholders in the future.
31 32 All those who work at Xstrata have played an important part in our success in 2004, and I thank them for their dedication and 33 hard work.
I also thank my fellow directors who continue to provide their expertise and time to guide Xstrata along its strategic 34 path, and the executive team, who continue to show great leadership in driving Xstrata forwards.
I have great confidence that 35 the Groups energy and momentum will be sustained into 2005 and beyond, delivering further value to all shareholders.
