Y i e n l l ' u s t s e e p s f g r u d l o s a n r d e e e u l s s s c i e t t t s r r o e o i t v n m h d c e r A e u s a e s r e 4 Yell Group plc CHIEF EXECUTIVES OVERVIEW I am pleased to report that Yell has enjoyed a good year, delivering strong growth in both the US and the UK, where our listing on the London Stock Exchange marked another significant chapter in our ongoing development.
We grew revenue by 6.5% to 1,187 million, reflecting the success of our strategy of winning new customers, keeping them, and growing our business whilst helping them grow theirs.
In the US, we grew revenues by 21.2% excluding the impact of exchange rates, and in the UK revenues were up by 3.3% after the effects of the price cap on the Yellow Pages directories.
Growth in our revenues supported growth in EBITDA and built a firm foundation for the future of our company.
win, keep and grow Over ten years ago we set ourselves the goal of being the At the heart of all our products is our virtuous circle where best business information bridge between buyers and sellers the more businesses advertise with us, the more value we and this goal remains at the heart of our business strategy.
provide to our users, who in turn use our products more.
In the UK, our printed directories contain over one million This increased usage generates more sales leads for our adverts from 480,000 advertisers and Yellow Pages is used advertisers, which encourages them to increase their on average 100 million times a month.
Last year that usage advertising with us and attracts more advertisers.
helped generate 88 billion for businesses appearing in the This simple business proposition has allowed us to grow our directory.
With the development of Yell.
com as a major UK brands and increase their value and relevance to users and online directory and advertising medium, and the launch advertisers throughout the UK and US.
of our telephone based service, Yellow Pages 118 24 7, we have consolidated our position as the UKs leading classified advertising service.
Since our first step into the US with the acquisition of Yellow Book USA in 1999 we have built our business through both organic growth and further acquisitions such as that of the Feist directory company in March 2004.
We are the largest independent classified directories publisher in the US, with directories in 42 states and Washington DC.
In FY04 Yellow Book carried adverts from 386,000 advertisers.
866k 88bn Total unique printed directories We helped to generate 88 billion in customers UK and US FY04 revenue for UK businesses in FY04 M o r s e w a o d r v g e r e t i g s a e s r s U j o i n Annual Report 2003 04 5 42 States and Washington DC Coverage of Yellow Book 6 Yell Group plc With 866,000 customers placing adverts in our products in the Directory Company, both acquired in FY03.
We will take the UK and US during FY04, Sales Excellence is a core skill for us same approach to the integration of recent and future and we are committed to the continuous development of our acquisitions, transferring skills and knowledge and taking full expertise in this area.
Each of our customers is served by one advantage of economies of scale.
of our 4,800 sales professionals whose knowledge and Our financial results reect the excellent achievements of our expertise allows them to work with the customer to develop an people on both sides of the Atlantic.
We have delivered strong effective advertising programme.
revenue growth through our disciplined approach and clear Underpinning our Sales Excellence are world-class production focus on effective strategies.
At the same time, we have processes and a passion for continuous improvement and continued to invest in our business through advertising Business Excellence that has earned us a leading position in programmes, new products and improved processes.
And we key customer service areas.
In the UK, we organise our have improved profitability and generated strong cash ow.
business around the EFQM Business Excellence Model and use This is key to our strategy for delivering long term value annual independent assessments against the model to track appreciation for our shareholders.
progress and identify improvement opportunities.
We are focused on delivering the expectations of our users, Our product development strategy has been to take advantage our advertisers, our people and our shareholders.
We are of appropriate new technology and market developments both confident in our ability to continue to build and develop for the enhancement of our existing products and the our business.
introduction of new products and services.
We have focused the development of Yell.
com on services that add value both to advertisers and users, services such as web based advertising and mobile products.
And with Yellow Pages 118 24 7 we have taken advantage of deregulation of the directory enquiries market and our expertise in providing classied information via the telephone.
In the US, we have grown our business through John Condron, Chief Executive officer new directory launches and carefully selected acquisitions.
We have sought out companies with a realistic business plan and strong management, and to which we can add real value.
We intend to continue to make acquisitions in the US, strengthening our position and extending our geographic reach.
Successful integration of acquisitions depends on a strong, experienced and proven management team.
Our Executive Team have on average more than 17 years experience in our business sector experience that has enabled the successful integration of the McLeod directory company and the National Objectives Yell Direct Our strategy is supported by our key Yell Direct is our online channel annual objectives.
These are shared enabling customers to do business throughout our company and owned with us at any time by all our people Annual Report 2003 04 7 Management Our Executive Team have on 1.
Eddie Cheng 12 34 5 average 17 years experience in 2.
John Davis our industry sector.
Victoria Sharrar our businesses with a shared 4.
Steve Chambers 67 89 10 approach and common leadership 5.
