6 Chief Executives review Chief Executives review BAE Systems performed well in 2004, both in The companys strong position in both the US to bear fruit with a number of significant new delivering good financial results and executing and UK markets presents future opportunities business wins in supporting air platforms.
actions that will underpin performance for industry to support the increasingly joint Building on the company's record in growing improvement over the longer term.
nature of peacemaking and peacekeeping by our support business in the air sector, BAE Systems armed forces.
Industrial participation, including In particular, the signing of contracts for the identified a substantial support opportunity in the access to the highest level of technology on next, Tranche 2, phase of the Eurofighter land sector.
The acquisition of Alvis plc was a key programmes in which both nations participate, Typhoon programme established a way forward step in delivering a land sector support strategy.
such as the Joint Strike Fighter programme, for the programme.
This completes the actions Alvis significantly enhances the companys remains an important objective in this regard.
taken over recent years to address excessive involvement in the land sector.
The merger risk in our UK Ministry of Defence MoD The company has benefited from good cash of Alvis and BAE Systems complementary programmes businesses.
generation during the year enabling several RO Defence activity into a new Land Systems acquisitions to be completed in line with our These actions will result in a sustainable growth business enables the company to offer coherent strategy.
In the US, five acquisitions were in profitability in an area of our business that, land sector support to the UKs armed forces completed.
The largest transaction, DigitalNet, in the past, had overshadowed the performance and the large installed base of fighting vehicles elevates BAE Systems to rank as a top 10 of the majority of the companys portfolio.
in service with customers worldwide.
provider of IT systems support to the US BAE Systems has for some time been pursuing Support solutions also lie at the heart of Department of Defense and other government a strategy to focus on its capabilities in BAE Systems relationship with the Kingdom agencies.
With these acquisitions BAE Systems aerospace and defence with an emphasis of Saudi Arabia.
BAE Systems has a long and now generates annualised sales of some on accessing higher value opportunities in the successful history providing integrated support $5.6bn in its North America business and now integration and networking of complex defence to the Saudi armed forces.
The company has employs over 27,000 people across the US.
systems and provision of support solutions for some time adopted a strategy to integrate to the armed forces.
BAE Systems is alone The company has continued to build on its progressively greater local Saudi content in the amongst the leaders in our industry in being strong position in military support solutions.
The company is a large employer able to pursue this strategy on both sides of The strategy to work in partnership with the UK of Saudi nationals and a leader in technology the Atlantic.
MoDs Defence Logistics Organisation continues training in the Kingdom.
We look forward with confidence to delivering growing returns to our shareholders in the future.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2004 7 Consistent with this in-Kingdom strategy capabilities that will deliver value for money to Airbus is a highly successful enterprise and BAE Systems has invested in aerospace and the UK government and an acceptable return to BAE Systems is now seeing the benefit of its defence companies in Saudi Arabia which will shareholders of the companies concerned.
investment and support over many years as the enable the company to work in partnership with business fought to build a family of aircraft and We have also made good progress in Saudi investors whilst undertaking aircraft secure a strong position in the large commercial re-focusing our joint businesses in Europe.
and avionics maintenance and upgrade work jet market.
The A380 is the culmination of this in-Kingdom.
Whilst this trend to greater strategy.
The public presentation of this new Recognising the complexity of the earlier indigenous content will reduce margins, these aircraft took place in January 2005 and the proposed Eurosystems transaction with partnerships will provide significant technology programme is for first deliveries in 2006.
Finmeccanica we have moved to a simpler and employment benefits to the Kingdom and model.
The revised agreement, signed in January At the heart of BAE Systems, and its joint long-term value for BAE Systems.
2005, provides for BAE Systems to take full ventures, lies a highly qualified and dedicated BAE Systems has the leading naval systems ownership of the UK activities of the former workforce and I would like to thank them for business in the UK.
Like its UK air systems AMS joint venture in exchange for the companys their continued support and commitment.
activities, the performance of the naval existing 50% of the Italian activities and a cash The last few years have seen our business business in recent times has been affected by equalisation payment.
We have also agreed to turned around, with clear management targets the company having agreed, in prior years, to sell to Finmeccanica the groups defence set and consistently delivered.
Scale is being contracts for programmes with excessive risk.
communications business and certain avionics achieved in the US and our business with the activities comprising principally the UK-based In addition, over many years, the UK naval UK MoD has been fide-risked to acceptable airborne radar and electronic warfare business.
shipbuilding industry has suffered from a and manageable levels.
We look forward with lack of strategic planning and the company confidence to delivering growing returns for When completed, this transaction will generate commenced an evaluation of the options for its our shareholders in the future.
substantial cash and improve management control shipyards.
Whilst that evaluation was underway and business performance in the strategically the company welcomed the UK government important field of network-enabled capability.
initiative to determine a strategy for naval shipbuilding in the UK, in dialogue with all BAE Systems has a 20% interest in Airbus and industry participants.
BAE Systems welcomes the company maintains a close management this dialogue as a real opportunity to secure a involvement in the business through the future for the UKs naval shipbuilding shareholder board.
Mike Turner Chief Executive 23 February 2005
