BalfourBeattyplc The Chief Executives interview  06  in theUK?
Ourmainmarkets, inhealthcare, education, ,  weregenerallybuoyant in 2004.
 , although, asever, noteverything inits markets wouldhaverequired heavy expenditure onresearch wentas we wouldhavewished it to.
A   principal business makes such investments   with afurther 1.0bn at Andover.
 preferred bidder stage at theyearend.
Wealready  andhave wonmore in our core businesses.
 England and a fiveyear TheAndoversale realised 218m net.
We continued to generate  for rail renewalson  tomanage working capital carefully.
Early in 2005, we secured a 380mcontract  excluding PFI PPP nonrecourse  replacing thegasmainsin net debt was311m, .
GreaterManchester over the next eight years.
Theyears major acquisition wasa50%interest inGammon, Does that mean that yourbusinessis nowmovingmore , for a consideration towardsservices?
Inadditiontogivingus pole  ,  localmarket,  engineering and construction.
During the year, for example, wewere generally in Asia.
 and the % new 1,231 bed  ownershipofthis profitableportfolio ofroadconcessions, added morethan400mofworkat HeathrowTerminal5.
  We had a difficult year inthe US, resulting in substantial losses, of over1bn.
Whentheseschemes reachfinancialclose, as indicated in the geographic analysis.
We have, however, very substantial  will now made good progress in gettingour interests there into the .
right shape to generate the consistent and growing earnings profile which is thehallmark of our businesses elsewhere.
We now have a sound organisation structure and sensible business models in each of ourUS markets.
We have three strong regional civil engineering businesses in California, Texas and Pennsylvania, a rail transit and servicesoperation and, in Heery, a wellestablished specialist in architecture, engineering andprogramme management.
Our primary objective is to deliver significant performance improvement in2005 and 2006, on which basis we can build a larger presence in thelonger term.
BalfourBeattyplc  07 Howwould you summarise your strategy?
   is, by itsnature, hazardous and we years , and on creatingandinvesting  our employees and the public safe.
It is, therefore, important to  improving  .
In addition to the disposal of Andover .
Wehaveintroduced Controls we  prospects of , environmental  .
benchmarkperformance,  Duringthisperiod, procurementmethods, particularlyinthe actionplans.
 Tocontinuetomeetour growth objectives, wewillbe looking  Beattys affairs since1996.
Havingthe   us flexibility inmaintainingour thatperiod.
, covering, for example, , how to manage our working capital, and when and how we recognise profit.
, with close  further strengthening of allofouroperations and new .
PA Ouraimistocreatelong RTNE RING termshareholdervalue ,  skillstocustomersfor , efficiency and reliabilityare critical.
Groupstructure NERING We work in partnership with  tocreateandcarefor .
 Beattyat workarefeatured intheoperatingreview... Building, Building CivilandSpecialist  Investmentsand    Developments   leaderinthedesign, construction,  , construction,  equipping, maintenance,  equipping, maintainingand , design managementandrenewal   , .
