David Pretty, Group Chief Executive, Barratt Developments PLC, at Visage, Swiss Cottage, London NW3.
Another excellent team Group Chief performance has again produced a Executives very successful year for the Group.
Review All key statistics improved and our 12th consecutive year of organic growth was achieved.
Over the past 12 years when national housing completions remained largely static Barratt has tripled production and market share.
In addition, for the second year running, we completed more new homes in total and more on brownfield land than any other housebuilder.
We remain committed to further steady growth and will have the capacity to increase production towards 20,000 homes a year by 2010.
We have confidence in the underlying fundamental strength of the housing market and our proven ability to increase production to help satisfy the nations growing housing needs.
Subject to market conditions, we plan to undertake 5bn of urban regeneration projects over the next 3 years, of which 500m will be targeted at social housing.
6 operating margin continuing to completions in Scotland, the North UK Housing increase, from 14.3% to 15.7%.
and Midlands and 49% in the South.
We completed 14,021 new homes in This improvement reflects the We remain committed to strong cost the UK, an increase of 5%.
This benefits of continued sales control and maintained helped to increase Group turnover by momentum, strengthened revenues, administration overheads at 3% of 16% to a new record of 2,516m improved overhead recovery, strict revenue, again one of the lowest in which, combined with a further control of all costs and more the industry.
We continue to benefit improvement in our margin, stringent land acquisition criteria.
from the strength of our longproduced a record Group pre-tax Our average private selling price rose standing national purchasing profit of 367.7m, an increase of 10% from 158,600 to 173,900, agreements with our main suppliers.
again partially reflecting growth These helped us contain increases in The operating profit from our core south of the Midlands.
Our total the year just ended to 5% and we UK housing activity increased to geographic spread has, however, would not expect that increase to be 366.4m, up 26%, with the been maintained with 51% of exceeded this year.
This award-winning development in a high-profile location provided 60 apartments, which are now all sold.
7 Group Chief Executives Review affordability.
A more stable market Housing Market Geographic and Product Diversity will also provide a firm foundation for All of our regions remain sound, our future growth.
One of our greatest strengths is our including London and the Southgeographic spread across the country.
The demand for new homes East, and all produced improved Currently we have 430 developments continues to be supported by performances.
being built by 32 operating divisions historically low interest rates, good throughout England, Scotland and As expected, following several employment levels and the Wales.
Our divisions are run by local interest rate rises the market has continuing serious constraint on men and women, possessing a good moderated in recent months.
This supply caused by delays within the knowledge of their local markets and has made the market more planning system.
sensitive to local needs and sustainable going forward and aspirations.
The fundamentals therefore remain sufficient for us to achieve our sound but our Group also benefits objectives.
We expect selling prices Also, our ability to build homes from a number of core strengths, in the year ahead to rise much less serving all sectors of the market, at which consistently assist our rapidly, probably in line with incomes prices currently from 80,000 to performance and provide added at around 4%, and this will help 1.7m, maximises our opportunities protection from any market to appeal to the widest range of fluctuations.
This prevents an overdependence on any one geographical 1 8 area or market sector and increases our ability to adjust production, sales and land buying in line with any market changes.
Urban Regeneration and Brownfield Development We remain industry leaders in the regeneration of Britains urban areas and our expertise in this vital area stretches back close on 30 years.
Today, over 80% of our homes nationwide are built on brownfield sites, significantly exceeding the 2 Governments 60% target, and more than any other housebuilder.
This rises to over 95% in London and the South East.
Last year, more than 200 new Barratt homes were built on brownfield sites each week, a total of over 11,000.
We are devoting greater resources to this sector and are well-positioned to benefit from, and assist, the Governments important emphasis on urban regeneration.
Our regeneration work continues to be recognised by an increasing number of architectural design, construction quality, and environmental awards.
At the heart of this major mixed-use development one of the largest ever undertaken in the city centre we are building 325 riverside apartments.
2 The Ice Works, Camden, London NW1.
Unsightly sheds were demolished to make way for an ultra-modern development of 14 luxury apartments and offices in a canalside setting overlooking Camden Lock.
On a former school site, this development provided a wide mix of 2,3 and 4 bedroom homes to meet local housing needs.
This 400m joint venture is creating a sustainable new community of 2,000 homes 4 and a business park.
Right to left: Harold Walker, Deputy Group Chief Executive, Barratt Developments PLC: Neil Fitzsimmons, Managing Director, Redrow PLC: Lindsay Hoyle, MP for Chorley: and David Borrow, MP for South Ribble.
9 1 10 Group Chief Executives Review with 7,000 further plots agreed, this Social Housing Partnerships brings our total UK land bank to We are leaders in the provision of over 56,000, four years supply at affordable housing, be it low cost current volumes.
homes for sale, rent, shared We have one of the best-quality land ownership or for those with special banks in the industry.
In the year we built 1,308 year we achieved detailed planning homes for our Housing Association approval for 15,500 plots and have partners, which represents an all the necessary approvals in place increase of 250% over the past six to achieve our requirement for this years.
Furthermore, 90% of the land Today we have 79 partnerships required for 2005 06 is already under way across Britain with a owned or contracted, and over 60% further 77 in the pipeline.
There is for the following year.
an ever-growing need for partnership We welcomed the Barker Report housing and, with our network of published in March 2004 and its local divisions and long experience excellent analysis of the causes of in this field, we are well placed to the lack of supply in British help satisfy the national shortage.
The main conclusion was 2 that delays within the planning system were the major cause of the Land and Planning problem and we are well placed to build more homes should the Our land acquisition and planning various recommendations be skills have been an important part implemented.
of our success in growing organically in an increasingly difficult planning It is clear the Government is environment.
We exercised prudence committed to improving the in the land market throughout the planning system and we very much year, raising land purchase criteria hope that the majority of the twice.
Nevertheless, during the year we acquired 18,076 plots, 29% more than we used, bringing the total UK land stocks to 49,335.
Together 3 1 The Switch House, London E14.
Close to Canary Wharf, this innovative regeneration of a redundant electricity station site has created a landmark building of 60 apartments.
We transformed an eyesore scrapyard adjacent to the town centre, creating 168 homes, including 42 for rent and shared ownership.
Homes for rent and low-cost ownership were provided here through a partnership with 4 Jephson Homes Housing Association.
4 Paul Gieron, Chairman of KingsOak Central, with Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott at Market Square, Wolverhampton, a landmark regeneration project which included 64 11 apartments.
1 2 1 West of the Green, Bristol.
Barratt are lead developers on this former hospital site, which has provided over 400 new homes and proved very successful.
We are now completing the final phase.
This former school site is providing 99 homes for sale, rent and shared ownership.
3 Robert Handford, Chairman of Barratt Central, right with Housing Minister Keith Hill at Oakley Chase, Corby, one of four Barratt developments providing over 350 new homes in this important regeneration area.
3 12 Group Chief Executives Review An important part of our growth Land and Planning continued strategy is the further controlled However, this will inevitably take expansion of 10 of our most time and therefore we do not experienced and successful believe there will be improvements divisions into super divisions, each in the short term.
Nevertheless, we capable of building over 700 homes believe there are further per annum.
These existing teams opportunities to grow, particularly benefit from larger sites with higher for those organisations such as densities, which are already allowing ourselves which possess the them to exceed our usual optimum necessary design, construction and production of 500 units per annum.
Their additional growth can also be achieved with limited increases in 1 Accordingly, we have been overheads.
strengthening the land and planning 1 The Spectrum, Edinburgh.
We currently have 8 schemes under way in the city.
This stylish functions in all of our divisions to The establishment of four new development created 63 homes and is now ensure we maximise on every divisions in key growth areas over fully sold.
opportunity, with particular the next two years will also increase 2 Clausentum Quay, Southampton.
This emphasis on brownfield our land acquisition and spectacular development of 85 apartments is on a well-located waterfront factory site developments.
regeneration opportunities in areas close to the city centre and the M27.
where we are either underSubject to market conditions, we represented or where we believe plan to undertake 5bn of urban there is future significant growth regeneration projects over the next potential.
3 years, including 500m for social housing.
2 13 Group Chief Executives Review Skills Training We continue to devote significant time and resources to our apprentice and graduate training schemes, which continue to expand.
Already the largest training programme in the industry, the number of apprentices now under training on our sites has grown to 530.
In addition, we now have 55 graduates on fast-track career paths.
As always, we are impressed by the enthusiasm and performance of these young recruits, many of whom are already progressing within the 1 Group, and helping us address the national skills shortage.
USA Our Southern California USA operation performed well in the period building 702 homes, up 17%, on turnover up 37% to 172.9m.
This produced a 77% increase in operating profits, from 10.7m to 18.9m, before an impairment provision of 7.5m.
After several years of losses the 2 progress of the division in recent years, and its return to profitability, had been welcome.
However, it was a small part of our total Group operation and its disposal in a strong USA housing market, on terms which we believe are attractive to our shareholders, is also a strategic move which will enable total focus on our core UK activities.
The sale, to an acquisition vehicle 1 Clive Fenton, Chairman of Barratt headed by three members of the Southern, centre, with Gina Marshall, regional training co-ordinator, Michael Barratt American management team, OLeary, Divisional Director and sales was successfully completed on 30 negotiators who have successfully completed a new training course.
August 2004 and the proceeds of 2 Colin Dearlove, Group Finance Director, 90m will be used for the selective with the Newcastle divisions Apprentice purchase of land for urban renewal of the Year, joiner Andrew Dodd.
projects targeted at key growth 3 Tom Durband, our 500th apprentice.
continue to increase our commitment to skills training and now have 530 apprentices, the largest number in the 3 14 industry.
1 Corporate Social Advance Housing Responsibility Report Our joint venture company, Advance This year we have produced our first Housing, is now producing steelindependently verified Corporate framed modular housing from its Social Responsibility CSR Report, newly commissioned production which reviews our corporate, social, facility in Daventry, Northants.
environmental, and health and It has now completed its first safety activities.
The report homes, with 23 homes occupied in identifies not only our strengths but the East Midlands and well received also reinforces our commitment to by their private purchasers.
A continuous improvement in our CSR further 58 homes were completed performance.
We accept our wider on 6 other sites, including 11 for responsibilities and are developing our first Housing Association client.
new management systems and actively engaging with our The concept has considerable stakeholders to improve our overall 2 potential, particularly with the effectiveness.
growing Government emphasis on modern methods of Our CSR activities, as demonstrated construction.
However, we in our separate report, already shall be controlling output contribute positively to our overall whilst we refine production business performance and techniques and on-site profitability.
We believe the further erection procedures.
We plan investment now being made in this to deliver around 300 new increasingly important area of our homes in the year, subject to business will assist in generating achieving the necessary further value to our shareholders.
Located on the edge of the Brecon Beacon mountains, these new homes feature local architecture and materials.
2 Advance homes are built using modular manufacturing technology.
15 3 Our first Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
1 16 Group Chief Executives Review Health and Safety Over the last three years, a sustained senior management focus on health and safety, and the ongoing development of our risk-based Occupational Health and Safety Management System OHSMS, has transformed the standards and performance achieved across our operating divisions.
This year, once again, the independent health and safety audit inspections undertaken every three weeks by the NHBC on our development sites, have confirmed 2 our performance rating remains ahead of the national housebuilder average.
The progress we have made to our buyers expectations and we is a credit to our dedicated health shall continue to drive for even and safety management team and to further improvements.
We are not complacent, however, and we are striving for further improvements.
"Awards This year work will continue on the introduction of a comprehensive I am pleased to report that the work audit protocol for our OHSMS and of our construction teams was we will continue to engage with our recognised by the NHBC during the contractors and sub-contractors in year with our divisions winning our relation to our health and safety highest ever number of building values, performance standards and quality awards in the ""Pride in the training programmes."
3 The Group also won more Greenleaf environmental awards than any Customer Care other housebuilder for the third year running.
We recognise that the housebuilding industry has not enjoyed the best of In the coveted national What reputations with its customers and House?
Awards, we were voted its general satisfaction rates have Britains Best Large Housebuilder been lower than other industries.
and, for the second year running, won the Gold Award for Best We have given much greater focus Brownfield Development in Britain.
to this part of our operation in the This follows earlier awards for Best 1 Bear Wharf, Reading.
This award-winning past year and, in Summer 2003, development of 77 apartments is one of a Starter Home, Best Luxury Home completely reviewed and overhauled series of highly-successful projects we have and Best Luxury Development.
our quality monitoring and customer undertaken in Reading.
As a result, a 2 Laurence Dent, Corporate Director, fourth Barratt was identified in a Design from right, and Marion Rothnie, Assistant major new initiative was introduced Council report as one of the UKs Company Secretary, left, with members of throughout the Group and on all of the Groups Health & Safety team.
most effective users of design and our sites which is already bearing 3 Steven Boyes, Chairman of Barratt Northern, innovation, and also took the top fruit with significantly improved with award-winning sales negotiator Louise position in a survey of the North Minnikin left and graduate trainee Michelle customer satisfaction levels.
All of Crozier, at Melbury, Newcastle Great Park.
our teams remain deeply committed 17 Group Chief Executives Review Looking Forward We have produced another set of record results, extending our track record to 12 consecutive years of growth in housing output and financial performance.
Our forward sales stand at record levels and the housing market across the country is stable.
We are financially strong and our fundamental strengths of geographic spread and product 1 diversity, together with our land, planning and urban regeneration skills, give us confidence in capacity, expertise and resources for we will have the capacity to steadily achieving our 13th year of progress.
We are strengthening increase production towards 20,000 In the years ahead, we believe the our teams at all levels and, subject homes per annum by 2010.
British housing market will remain to market conditions, plan to fundamentally sound and the pentundertake 5bn of urban up demand for new homes, regeneration projects over the next including social housing, will 3 years, including 500m for social increase.
Through our network of existing divisions, the expansion of We remain committed to increasing our super divisions, and the production to satisfy the nations David Pretty Group Chief Executive 22nd September 2004 establishment of four new divisions, growing housing needs and have the 2 1 Balkerne Heights, Colchester.
This flagship urban brownfield development uses traditional regeneration project on a former warehouse architecture and materials and is one of site overlooking the Thames will create 250 18 four schemes we currently have in and homes in total.
