6 BBA GROUP CHAIRMANS ANNUAL REPORT 2004 STATEMENT The recovery experienced in the second half of 2003 continued Board level during 2004.
The Group has appointed Michael into 2004 with demand strong in both our businesses.
Harper to the Board as a non-executive director with effect Clearly, we have been affected by the weaker US dollar on from 23 February 2005.
He is currently Chief Executive of our translated US profits.
Excluding that impact, our earnings Kidde plc.
On the same date we also announced that Ross grew at 5 per cent.
Since 2001 our underlying profit before tax, McMillan was stepping down from the Board after nearly in US dollar terms, have grown by 33 per cent, demonstrating four years with the Group.
We thank him for his contribution the good inherent growth characteristics of our businesses.
to the business over this time.
As always our success as a Group is dependent on the Financial Results efforts and quality of all our people.
The Board would like In 2004, reported turnover for the Group on continuing to thank everyone who works for the Group for their valued operations was at 1.37 billion, 52 million higher than in contribution to our progress.
2003, after an adverse currency translation impact of 96 million.
On a constant currency basis, turnover increased Corporate Governance by 12 per cent.
BBA has always supported the key principles underlying good Underlying pre-tax profits at 128 million were 2 million corporate governance.
I am pleased to be able to say that the less than last year after a negative currency impact of 8 Company is substantially compliant with the new Combined million and higher raw material input prices of 8 million.
Code which applied to BBA for the first time during the year.
Statutory profit before tax was 73 million 2003: 55 million.
Corporate Social Responsibility Adjusted earnings per share before goodwill We believe that a positive attitude to social responsibility amortisation and exceptional items were 19.9 pence is essential and during the year we undertook a number 2003: 19.7 pence.
of initiatives to broaden the reach of corporate social responsibility within BBA.
This included the issue of an Acquisitions enhanced policy on CSR and Business Ethics together with During the year, the Group continued to enhance its awareness communications and training.
During the year geographic presence and market position with nine strategic we published on our website our third Annual CSR report acquisitions for a total investment of 98 million covering and we are pleased that overall the Group continues to each of our business sectors.
As most of these occurred in report improved performance.
the second half of the year, the benefits of their contribution to the Group will be seen primarily in 2005.
Outlook Both of our businesses grew sales appreciably in 2004, albeit Dividends that earnings were held back by currency translation and Following the interim dividend of 3.35 pence paid on raw material price increases.
Nevertheless, we have continued 5 November 2004, the Board is recommending a final dividend to invest in new businesses, strategic acquisitions and of 7.95 pence 2003: 7.6 pence payable on 20 May 2005 to productivity initiatives.
shareholders on the register at 15 April 2005.
This will make Looking to the future, we are clearly dependent, to some total dividends for 2004 of 11.3 pence 2003: 10.8 pence.
extent, on currencies and material price inputs, but our underlying businesses continue to grow and strengthen.
Board and People We expect this trend to continue as we go forward.
Irv Yoskowitz stepped down in March after nine years as a non-executive director and there were no other changes at 7 Roberto Quarta Chairman 8 BBA GROUP CHIEF ANNUAL REPORT 2004 EXECUTIVES REVIEW AS A GROUP WE HAVE THE ABILITY TO REMAIN FOCUSED.
2004 HAS PROVIDED A STABLE ENVIRONMENT FOR BBA TO BUILD FURTHER.
1 In Aviation we further increased our market share through strategic acquisitions in Europe, new business wins and investment.
2 Despite high raw material costs, we have achieved good growth in Materials Technology through further acquisitions and product launches that have led to major contract wins.
As we look forward our strategy continues to be focused on growth primarily in Aviation Services where we see good opportunities to increase revenues.
9 Roy McGlone Group Chief Executive
