We have also achieved substantial progress in Chief Executives developing two key areas, which we believe will Statement become significant growth areas for the group life tenancies and investment in mainland Europe.
In both these areas we hope to announce further developments, either through direct acquisition or Exciting times: the creation of important joint venture partnership agreements during the course of the current year.
This has been a particularly exciting and fulfilling year.
Turning to the groups operations in more detail, 4 Not only have we produced 10 I can report that the strong housing market we 5 6 2 witnessed for most of the year under review was 1 record profits and an excellent reflected in our tenanted residential division, where 9 7 growth in the value of our asset 8 sales totalled almost 135m.
In addition, we saw base but we have made a valuation increase on the residential properties in our trading portfolio of 12.4% to September.
substantial progress in achieving This figure does mask regional variations of less the goals we set at the beginning than 5% in central London and greater than of the year.
30% in the North West of England.
In our view these increases underline the benefit of our geographically widespread portfolio as well as These included the full and the underlying strength of the housing market successful incorporation of over the period.
Some 42% by value of Grainger 3 residential assets are outside London and the our Bromley joint venture: the South East the two regions that saw relatively rationalisation and refocusing sluggish growth through the year to 30 September of our development and trading 2004.
The year end average vacant possession value of our residential properties rose to 164,000 division, with the disposal of the from 144,000 last year.
The reversionary surplus bulk of our commercial property in our portfolio the difference between vacant investment portfolio and the possession value and investment value now stands at 536m, or 21.61 per share.
900m refinancing of our loan portfolio, which gives us both It is also worth noting that many of the sales greater flexibility and overall that we achieved were of unmodernised or lower interest rates.
below UK average value properties.
Brian Crumbley Average sale value of Graingers Headed by Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham.
Director of Sales and Acquisitions North properties on vacant possession The groups expert and unrivalled team allows the business 2003-2004 to develop and grow with assurance and confidence.
Peter Schwerdt 2004: 164,000 Director of Sales and Acquisitions South Pictured left to right: 2003: 144,000 7.
Debra Yudolph Director of Urban Development Director of Residential Management South 8.
Mark Robson Group Company Secretary Director of Residential Management North Director of Group Financial Operations 3.
Andy James Chief Executive Director of Land and Regeneration 4.
Tony Dodds Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director Director of Grainger Homes Grainger Trust plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2004Grainger Trust is strong and consistent demand for such properties from both first time buyers as well A long-term business as the owner developer market.
Our portfolio is pregnant with On the other side of the equation, we are reversionary value part of the value extremely pleased with the level and quality of is realised each year as properties residential purchases we have made during the are vacated and sold.
In fact we acquired, in total, slightly more residential units than we sold.
After a slow start we invested approximately 118m to purchase 1,042 units, compared with the 1,031 units sold, which included 486 regulated tenancies at a cost of 68m and a further 374 life tenancies for 23m.
At the start of the year one of the principal goals we set ourselves was to rationalise our development and trading activities through the orderly disposal of our commercial property investments in order to focus effort and resource on the residential sector.
As a result we sold 25m of commercial property investments, showing a 3.5m surplus over September 2003 values, leaving the group with only one major development asset Landmark Place, Slough.
ft. office element has been hard hit by current market conditions and we have taken a 1m write-down against its carrying value.
Following the disposal of virtually all our commercial property investments we have now reorganised the development and trading division into three distinct core activities: land and regeneration: residential development: and house building.
This, we believe, now presents a coherent and structured approach.
Reversionary surplus the difference between vacant possession value and investment value 2003-2004 2004: 536m 2003: 484m Annual report and accounts 2004 07 Grainger Trust plc In land and regeneration we sold the final major market.
This business is high margin and development plots, comprising 12.4 acres, at cash generative and we will endeavour to Kennel Farm for a total of 14.2m, generating make the most of any opportunities that arise.
Future activity at However, Grainger is a long-term business and Kennel Farm will focus on completion of the local we are busy preparing ourselves for the time centre, the five acres allocated for business use when the supply of regulated tenancies begins and the sale of minor plots on a piecemeal basis.
The main contribution in residential development Fundamental to this is the life tenancy market.
has come from the development with Network We are excited by the opportunities presented by Housing Association which incorporated 78 flats this sector.
Diminishing pension returns, and the above a large Sainsburys supermarket in Wilton opportunity to crystallise some value from the Road, Pimlico.
This scheme has generated income increase in value of homes has increased the to us of almost 8m through the sale of 70 flats profile of and demand for this product.
Regulation during the year: of the remaining eight flats, five of the mortgage market and the future regulation have completed since the year end.
of equity release reversion products will, we believe, introduce more discipline into the sector House building has made very satisfactory and reward suppliers with good reputations and progress during the year as Grainger Homes a successful history.
completed the sale of 132 units for 14.7m, producing a trading profit of more than 2m.
We are delighted to announce the appointment of Peter Couch to head up our life tenancy Operationally, therefore, this has been a successful activities.
Peter is vastly experienced in the equity and eventful year.
Externally this success has release and insurance business sectors having been recognised by our winning the EPRA Best worked as national sales manager of financial Performance Small Mid Cap Award for the planning services for NPI Limited and managing year ended 2003.
EPRA is the European Public director of AMP Retirement Services before setting Real Estate Association and has been set up to up his own equity release consultancy business.
Life tenancy taking advantage of our expertise promote, develop and represent the European We are confident that Peter will help Grainger take We are excited by the opportunities presented by public real estate sector with a particular focus on full advantage of the opportunities this sector this sector.
Diminishing pension returns and the establishing best practice standards in accounting, presents to us.
opportunity to crystallise some of the increase in reporting and corporate governance.
The award value of homes has increased the profile of, and is granted to the company showing the greatest Concern has been expressed that equity release demand for, this product.
level of total shareholder return provided certain may be tax inefficient for home-owners as a result standards of disclosure and corporate governance of the introduction of the pre-owned asset tax were met our return in the year was over 65%.
We are delighted to report that the Inland Revenue confirmed in an answer to And what of the future at Grainger Trust?
As ever Parliament in November that such assets would our focus will remain on the regulated tenancy not be affected by the new tax.
Trust Grainger Entering new markets The year under review has seen the papers full With our wide skill base and expert knowledge of stories of uncertainty in the housing market.
we have created a unique platform from which to Its reassuring to know that in the same period enter into new markets such as life tenancy and our share price has significantly increased, we European investment.
have posted a record profit and seen an increase of 25% in our net asset value per share.
Grainger Trust plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2004 We have received a number of approaches from financial services companies who want to From houses to penthouses create a reversionary equity release product and leverage our skills.
They are offering us access to While our properties range from houses their distribution capability and we are exploring to penthouses, 66% of our entire portfolio options in this regard.
have a vacant possession value of between 100,000 and 250,000.
We also feel that we can operate successfully in mainland Europe.
We are concentrating our efforts in two areas.
The first is investment in long-term reversionary residential portfolios in the more mature economies of Western Europe where we believe there is an opportunity to replicate the return characteristics of our main UK business.
We are also looking at more opportunistic investments in residential development land in Central Europe.
In both cases we are currently intending to invest alongside local operating partners.
Supporting these activities will be our development and trading division, now rationalised and with a clear strategy.
The rationalisation of the commercial property portfolio and the last of the bulk sales at Kennel Farm indicate that this years level of profitability will not be repeated in 2005, but we are confident that we will be able to position this division to produce high quality returns across a broad spectrum of residential development activity.
Rupert Dickinson Chief Executive 21 December 2004 Annual report and accounts 2004 09 Grainger Trust plc
