14 15 Chief Executives business review Andrew Rosenfeld 01 01 03 03 02 02 Portfolio value Portfolio value by sector % by region % 01 Office: 80% 01 London 02 Retail: 13% West End, Central and 03 Industrial: 7% Greater London: 59% 02 London City and Midtown: 34% 03 Scotland: 7% It is quite extraordinary how the outlook has changed since I last reported to you We have always maintained a risk averse strategy towards development, and in September 2003.
At that time we were emerging from war in the Middle East, will not embark upon a process which involves taking unnecessary speculative the political environment in the UK was fraught with uncertainty, and the Central risk.
It is with this in mind that we are now considering the option of following London property market was still suffering from a decline in values borne out a procedure for the demolition, excavation and construction of the substructure, of an oversupply of office space and weak tenant demand.
which will take around a year, and will therefore be complete in 2006.
Such a What a difference a year makes.
With a strong bond market, improvements procedure will enable us to maintain our timing advantage over the rest of the in occupational demand and the early signs of a re-emergence in rental growth, market whilst at the same time limiting our speculative expenditure to those the picture could not be more different.
Rents in The City of London have in our view stabilised Combined with our achievements in obtaining planning consent during and it is estimated that the timing of this ground work activity will coincide with the year for two major development projects within the Minerva portfolio, a strengthening occupational market at which point a more accurate assessment namely, The Minerva Building and Park Place, Croydon, supplemented with can be made in respect of the letting market and the approach required to our proposed, Foster designed, office development at The Walbrook, then it maximise value.
is readily understandable as to why we have been successful in achieving a An integral part of the Corporation of Londons resolution to grant planning significant enhancement in value over the past 12 months.
consent was the conclusion of the Section 106 Agreement which details the In January of this year, the Corporation of London resolved to grant planning requirements necessary to be fulfilled in relation to the implementation consent for our 1 million sq.
ft. 50 storey Minerva Building, designed by the of the development.
We have now completed this documentation which has internationally renowned architects, Grimshaw.
The building which is widely resulted in the full grant of planning consent.
We have also now passed through considered to be of a world-class standard, is at the cutting edge of architectural the statutory judicial review period whereby any third party can challenge the and occupational design, capable of being let to a single tenant or perhaps more decision of a local authority to grant consent through the court process.
relevantly to a wide range of different tenants.
Quite simply therefore the future of The Minerva Building rests fairly and The planning process involved discussion and consultation with a squarely on the increasing strength of The City office market and our ability to number of key stakeholders within The City of London and the surrounding area.
attract high quality tenants to the building as we now move through the next cycle.
These included, the residents of the Middlesex Street Estate, English Heritage, Running in parallel with our activities in respect of The Minerva Building has CABE, the Greater London Authority, Sir John Cass Foundation Primary School, been an extensive programme of discussions and negotiations in relation to our London Borough of Tower Hamlets and the Civil Aviation Authority to name Park Place project in Croydon which will create a new 1 million sq.
ft. shopping mall but a few.
incorporating over 100 new shops, modern restaurant facilities and a major new Part of our plans involve the creation of a major new City square which department store which will extend to around 350,000 sq.
ft. representing one of along with the development of The Minerva Building will dramatically change the largest of its kind in the UK.
This development will significantly increase the this important location within the eastern sector of The City.
Both we and the towns total sales turnover, create new jobs and regenerate this important area Corporation of London recognised the importance of obtaining planning consent of the town centre.
for this development as The Minerva Building represents the single largest During the year we have focused on a range of activities including the headquarter office development ever to be granted permission within the Square completion of a complex Section 106 Agreement with Croydon Council which Mile.
The quality of design coupled with the advancements in technology and involves funding a broad range of local initiatives that will enhance the Croydon energy conservation provide The City occupational market with a quality of central area and in so doing provide an improved townscape environment in headquarters building that has until now not been available.
which the Park Place development will sit.
These include commitments to The Minerva Building is the only tower in The City with a detailed planning highway improvements, upgrading of The Queens Gardens and improvements consent capable of immediate implementation and we believe that when built it to town centre car parking and information messaging for shoppers.
will set new standards for office tenants and as such will be an asset that shows strong rental and yield performance.
As in the case of The Minerva Building, the majority of the Section 106 obligations 16 17 are triggered upon implementation of the development.
The Section 106 Chief Executives business review continued Agreement was completed in May of this year and as a result the planning permission was subsequently granted by Croydon Council.
In many respects, as important as the grant of planning consent and the entering into of the Section 106 Agreement, has been Croydon Councils formal resolution to grant compulsory purchase powers for the acquisition of the remaining land and interests not currently owned by Minerva, but which form part of the Park Place development.
We are continuing to negotiate with land owners with a view to acquiring relevant property ahead of the CPO Inquiry which is anticipated to take place in the Autumn of 2005 with development scheduled to commence in 2006, once suitable funding arrangements have been put in place.
During the year we have also acquired the all important existing Allders department store which forms an integral piece of the jigsaw for the redevelopment of the site.
You will recall that the Groups investment in Scarlett Retail was centred around our strategy of acquiring the existing Croydon department store as part of the Park Place site assembly process.
This acquisition was completed in April of this year for 48.825 million.
The property which comprises a gross internal area of 535,000 sq.
ft. is subject to a lease with Allders Department Stores Limited for an unexpired term of circa 31 years at a net annual rent of 3.4 million.
This lease is subject to the existing development agreement which provides for Allders relocation and the possession of the existing store in order to allow Park Place to proceed.
As the Central London market shows signs of improvement, and The City of London occupational market begins to stabilise, the prospect of redevelopment at The Walbrook presents itself.
This headquarter office development designed by Foster and Partners and which totals 452,000 sq.
ft. net of office and retail accommodation is located at the heart of The Citys prime office area, and is situated between Cannon Street and Bank stations.
The development encompasses an area which includes three existing office buildings, St. Swithins House, Walbrook House and Granite House.
St. Swithins House is leased to Barclays Bank who although occupying under a lease which continues until March 2012, will be vacating the property in 2005 as they move to Canary Wharf: Walbrook House is leased on flexible terms with break clauses which enable vacant possession to be achieved within nine months: and Granite House which we have chosen to leave substantially empty pending the outcome of our plans for redevelopment.
Once again, I would stress that we are not prepared to take undue speculative risk and an element of pre-letting will be necessary prior to the commencement of this development.
With an improving Central London office market, our investment portfolio has Profit before tax of 1.2 million 2003: 0.9 million was made by Minervas core real been well placed to benefit from increased occupational requirements and estate business.
After the effect of the inclusion of the Groups share of the results strengthening investor demand.
The investment portfolio is characterised by of Scarlett Retail, the loss for the year before tax was 22.9 million 2003: 5.2 million.
large investments with a strong underlying income stream from high quality The Groups property portfolio was independently valued by Atis Real tenants.
As tenant demand in Central London begins to increase, the portfolio Weatheralls as at 30 June 2004 at 1,205.5 million.
This has been reflected in the is well placed to benefit from improving rental levels.
net asset value per share which has increased 19.6 per cent to 379.5 pence from The Criterion development at Piccadilly Circus, comprises 121,000 sq.
of modern air-conditioned offices completed in 1993 and let to management The final dividend of 2.13 pence per share is proposed, which together with consultants, McKinsey & Co.
The offices have been subject to an outstanding rent the interim dividend of 1.07 pence per share, makes a total dividend for the year of review as at March 2003 which represented the low point in the Central London 3.20 pence per share 2003: 3.15 pence per share.
This rent review has now been concluded, and the new rent Total bank borrowings at 30 June 2004 were 690.7 million 2003: passing is 5.4 million per annum, compared to the 5.025 million per annum 670.2 million.
Cash balances were 103.9 million 2003: 141.2 million and previously payable.
There is in addition a total of 138,000 sq.
ft. of retail, restaurant the Group had undrawn bank facilities of 2.9 million 2003: 2.9 million.
and theatre accommodation, leased to Lillywhites and Virgin Retail amongst others.
During the year new financings totalling 41.5 million were completed.
The Chairmans statement refers to the performance of Scarlett Retail At 30 June 2004 the average cost of borrowing for the Group was 7.0 per cent for the full year to 30 June 2004.
It is quite clear that the changes required for 2003: 6.9 per cent with a weighted average loan maturity of eight years.
the turnaround of the Allders operating business have taken longer and have The Group has continued to adopt a risk averse strategy in terms of its been more wide ranging than originally anticipated.
Terminal stock levels have borrowings with 97 per cent 2003: 95 per cent of the Groups bank debt attracting been markedly reduced and store improvements are progressing.
There have fixed rates of interest.
been sweeping changes in the area of key management with around 40 new In recent months we have quite clearly seen an improving Central London buyers and merchandisers joining Terry Greens executive team within the last office market.
Prime rents in the West End have risen to around 75 per sq.
a position little more than a year ago when office space was almost unlettable.
During the year, following the sale of the existing Allders department Rents are gradually stabilising in Holborn and The City, and with the steady take store in Croydon to Minerva, Scarlett Retail restructured its financial arrangements up of surplus Grade A accommodation, it is in my view only a matter of time before in order to accommodate the business requirements of Allders.
In doing so, rental levels in these areas also begin to increase.
This will inevitably have a positive a significant portion of the original loan used to acquire Allders has been repaid impact not only on our investment portfolio but also on our development opportunities.
leaving a balance at 30 June 2004 of 82.1 million 2003: 127.2 million.
In addition, However, the scale of our development programme is significant particularly Allders has been provided with a new short-term revolving loan facility provided bearing in mind the size and nature of our balance sheet and our position as a by Barclays Bank, Lehman Brothers and Minerva, in which Minerva has agreed to FTSE 250 company and the constraints that such status imposes.
Consequently, provide up to 10 million of additional working capital, repayable in full at the end we must guard against taking unnecessary development risk particularly having of the Christmas trading period in January 2005.
As at 30 June 2004 the amount mind to the time frame within which such projects are to be completed.
Reference outstanding to Minerva was 5.5 million.
has already been made in the Chairmans statement to approaches that have been I would now like to turn to the Groups financial performance over the received from parties interested in acquiring Minerva.
In assessing whether or last 12 months.
Net rental income during the year has increased by 10 per cent not such approaches are acceptable we will clearly have to consider the benefits to 52.5 million compared with 47.6 million in 2003.
This increase is principally to shareholders of crystallising an exit, weighed against the opportunities and as a result of the full year rental contribution from the developments completed exposures that are inherent within our development programme set within the during the last financial year, and from acquisitions made during last year, together context of the corporate framework that I have articulated above.
with acquisitions made during this financial year including the existing Allders department store in Croydon.
The increase also takes into account the guaranteed Andrew Rosenfeld uplift in rent at Sampson House where the level increased from 7.25 million per Chief Executive Officer annum to 8 million per annum in December 2003.
