Wembley status 127,000 sq ft of sports retailing will be Quintain is the sole owner of 58 accompanied by 86,000 sq ft of local acres of land surrounding, but not convenience shopping.
including, the new National Stadium at Wembley, north west London.
The The London Borough of Brent site comprises the Wembley Complex resolved to grant outline planning Arena, Conference Centre and consent for Phase 1 in June 2004.
Exhibition Halls, Palace of Arts and We now await decisions in favour Palace of Industry, and York House.
of the application from the Government In October 2003 Quintain submitted Office of London.
The Mayor of London an outline planning application after approved the plans on 14 July.
A six months of consultation for a positive decision and the conclusion mixed-use regeneration proposal of the S106 planning agreement will covering Phase 1, some 42 acres lead to full outline planning permission of that ownership.
Quintains programme for the biggest We anticipate being on site before transformation of Wembley since the the end of 2004.
1920s will dramatically enhance the experience of visitors to the new National Stadium and world famous Wembley Arena, as well as revitalising the local community through the creation of 3,700 new homes, 40% of which will be affordable housing.
The development will feature 160,000 sq ft of new leisure facilities including a cinema complex, a 420-room 5-star hotel, new offices and 82,000 sq ft of community space.
Wembley Park Boulevard, the length, width and height of Regent Street will feature bars, restaurants and cafes.
In addition, 150,000 sq ft of designer outlet and Chief Executives Review We continue to be highly selective in our search for properties with higher yield and potential for active management and or Adrian Wyatt reversionary uplift Chief Executive The standing and reputation of the highly qualified and talented staff.
with good progress expected by the Company is further enhanced by another Whilst we are ever cognisant that our Stadium opening in 2006.
This augurs record year of outperformance, in which success is primarily measured by total well for the future.
we have made excellent progress across return, underlying profits must be carefully At Greenwich, the safe-guarded wharf all areas of our operations.
monitored as we strive to sustain a progressive and covered dividend.
status has been lifted and the whole We remain adamant that, with good transaction went unconditional on Special Projects stock-picking, high returns neither 18 June 2004.
We hope to commence necessitate nor connote high risk.
Highlights of the year are many and infrastructure works this calendar year, varied.
The major events at Wembley We have a well-financed reversionary with the intention of drawing down on portfolio with upside potential from rent during the year included the acquisition options over the 194 acres from 2005. of York House an office block adjacent reviews, planning gain, marriage value The combination of land sales and equity and development.
Our current low level to our existing holdings yielding 8%, participation in joint ventures will generate and the delisting of the 13 acre Palace of gearing, combined with intended substantial profits over this 20 year project.
sales, should give us substantial financial of Arts and Industry sites which will During the year, we also acquired a be included in our Phase II planning resources for our Special Projects, the 12 acre strategic site on the other side development of our Q3P business and application.
Subsequent to the year-end, of the river in partnership with the London a resolution to grant 5.3m sq ft of mixedreinvestment in the Main Portfolio.
use development was obtained from The business opportunities ahead, the London Borough of Brent on 3 June In May 2004, we made an outline exemplified by the Greenwich Peninsula, a significant achievement particularly planning application at Emersons Green Wembley and fund management, are given the timescale.
Advances have been for another major mixed-use development.
exciting, challenging and potentially very made with the pre-letting of buildings We own 65 acres of the 275 acre site.
To realise the potential, we allied to the hotel and leisure industries.
On our site, the development will be have invested in recruiting additional We expect to be on site this year, predominantly residential.
Greenwich Peninsula status Meridian Delta Limited, a joint venture company comprising Quintain Estates and Development PLC and Lend Lease Europe Limited, has the option to develop 194 acres of the Greenwich Peninsula in south east London adjacent to the Thames, of which Quintain owns 18.5 acres.
Following the London Borough of Greenwichs grant of planning permission in February 2004, construction of the first homes is expected to start in Spring 2005.
This landmark 5 billion, 20 year regeneration scheme is one of the largest ever seen in the UK, providing 10,000 new homes and creating an estimated 24,000 new jobs for the regional economy.
The development also comprises circa 3.6m sq ft of commercial and 335,000 sq ft of retail space.
Some 38% of the housing will be affordable, key worker and special needs homes.
Community benefits include two new schools, a new health facility, a new multi-faith centre, improved transport infrastructure and high quality open spaces.
With our major mixed-use consents, The Main Portfolio currently the vagaries of the residential market are not a fundamental concern, as we have holds about half the property control over the timing and financing of development.
assets which contribute In the City of London, the office building approximately three quarters at 36 Gracechurch Street was let while the tenant of 37-41 Gracechurch Street of the Groups rental income surrendered the lease for a premium equivalent to five years rent.
The whilst also contributing to the combined sites will be available for a consented development in three years uplift in NAV time comprising 113,000 sq ft of offices.
At Neathouse Place, the litigation over the fenestration has been satisfactorily resolved and the rent review positively concluded.
Shortly after the year-end, terms were agreed for a sale at 67.8m, representing a profit of 20m since it was acquired as part of Chesterfield.
Another notable event was the Turning to acquisitions, we continue potential and are working with the local formation of a joint venture company with to be highly selective in the search for council on plans to extend the centre Countryside Properties PLC to develop properties with higher yield and the to assist in the regeneration of the an 89m, 9.4 acre mixed-use site at potential for active management and or town.
At Anglia Square, on the edge of Abbey Mills, Merton in south west London.
For example, in Norwich city, we are looking at an urban Sales of the apartments are in line with November, we acquired a 57,000 sq ft regeneration project centred around our expectations and the pre-let leisure, retail office building in Bracknell yielding 9%.
and hotel development has been forward We believe that this property will benefit We continue to reduce our exposure sold to a UK institution.
from an improving South East office market.
In Central Manchester we overseas and have sold the Hanford Main Portfolio Mall shopping centre in California.
acquired Royal Exchange, a 40,000 sq ft The Main Portfolio currently holds about shopping mall.
We plan to refurbish the The property was sold in excess of half the property assets which contribute book value, realising a profit of 2.2m.
centre to provide better quality retail units.
approximately three quarters of the In Leamington Spa, we purchased a Groups rental income whilst also Elsewhere within the portfolio, we have 38,000 sq ft office building in October for contributing to the uplift in NAV.
We concluded the rent review on Fountain a yield of more than 9%, with opportunities continue to recycle our capital, selling Street, Manchester, and are in active to improve the yield still further through properties where we can see no further negotiations to re-gear the NHS Trusts refurbishment and re-gearing of leases.
In total, we PFI agreement on our APU unit at sold 80m worth of properties during Dartford.
Our rolling refurbishment and Our larger retail assets, originally acquired the reporting period, realising profits through Chesterfield, have continued rebranding of our multi-let office retail of 6m.
Since the year-end, we sold property at Smallbrook Queensway, to make major contributions to the The Parishes, Scunthorpe, at a price performance of the portfolio.
This of 43.1m, a profit on cost of 8.2m.
property continues to benefit from the Stockton, remains one of the North Easts most successful shopping centres.
We continue to maximise the reversionary Abbey Mills, Merton Abbey Mills is a mixed-use development facing the River Wandle in Merton, south west London, built around the existing Abbey Mills market.
With joint venture partner, Countryside Properties PLC, we are building 276 apartments, a hotel, a health and fitness centre and two restaurants.
As at 18 June 2004, building on Phase I had started, with contracts exchanged on 72 apartments with a further 22 reserved.
The average price is 185,000 for a one bedroom apartment and 280,000 for a two bedroom apartment.
The commercial element of the development, comprising the hotel, restaurants, and health and fitness centre has been sold forward.
Quintain Third Party Q3P Outlook Last, but by no means least, our We are expanding our Q3P business With inflation subdued and interest 20m sq ft development programme with the intention of building a high rates still relatively low, debt driven in Special Projects is exciting and income stream with a low capital base buyers remain active and competition is challenging but we are more than using structured finance, joint ventures increasing with the return of institutional up to the tasks that lie ahead.
and fees from fund management.
Although it is difficult to find value order to fulfil our ambition, the Q3P in the market, we have made purchases team has been strengthened.
of 55m during the year and 27m since the year-end.
Since the year-end, we have agreed with Morley to expand the Quercus health We have a robust balance sheet with a care fund from 245m up to 450m.
The majority of our borrowings at fixed rates.
Adrian Wyatt fund is structured to give us investment Our development and regeneration Chief Executive income, fees and a performance related activities are supported by the income 18 June 2004 bonus.
We have widened the investment stream from the main investment portfolio remit to include small hospitals, assisted and Q3P revenues.
Through a flexible living villages and diagnostic treatment approach to these projects we anticipate centres in addition to nursing homes, delivering exceptional returns.
specialist care homes and learning We will continue to recycle our capital disability homes.
actively and the expansion of Q3P will We are also examining structured finance contribute to a stable and significant and fund management opportunities in revenue stream in the years ahead.
the university and leisure sectors.
The Royal Exchange, Manchester Finance House, Exeter The Parishes, Scunthorpe City centre location of 40,000 sq ft Five storey mid 1970s office building Town centre shopping scheme opened of retail space in a shopping arcade.
243,474 sq ft of retail 20 ground floor shop units together arranged on lower ground, ground space in 28 shop units, including four with shop units arranged on sub and three upper floors together with large shop units over 20,000 sq ft, a basement, basement, first floor 12 underground car parking spaces.
multiplex cinema of 26,695 sq ft and and mezzanine.
