3i Report and accounts 2004 Chief Executives statement much-improved portfolio health, good uplifts in value and strong realisation profits Results I am pleased to report good results for the year with a total return of 531 million.
This significant improvement follows a three year period of substantial change for 3i, during which we refocused the investment business, restructured and slimmed down the organisation, and strengthened our investment processes.
These changes, together with our continued international growth, are now delivering much-improved portfolio health, good uplifts in the value of the portfolio and strong realisation profits.
3i continues to lead the European market in our three chosen segments of mid-market buy-outs, growth capital and early stage technology venture capital.
As the year progressed, we increased the momentum of investment activity, which resulted in almost 1 billion being invested during the year, including co-investment funds.
Brian Larcombe For the year, our buy-out and growth capital Chief Executive businesses generated returns of 22.4% and 26.8% 12 May 2004 respectively.
Our venture business delivered a substantial improvement, with a return of 6.0 %, though its return was broadly break-even before the impact of currency translation losses.
Our overall return of 18.1% can compare with performance data, produced by Thomson Venture Economics, which shows an overall return for European private equity and venture capital funds of 1.4 % for calendar year 2003.
Although the data is not strictly comparable, it does suggest that 3i is performing well within the top quartile of the industry.
3is return compares with returns of 25.7% and 31.0% on the FTSE 100 and FTSE All-Share total return indices respectively.
It is normal that our returns lag an upturn in quoted markets.
This is because the valuations of 3is 04 3i Report and accounts 2004 Chief Executives statement unquoted investments are generally based on historical earnings and our venture capital assets are not marked up in line with a rise in quoted markets.
Market conditions Market conditions and business confidence have improved steadily since the beginning of the financial year.
The improvement in capital markets and mergers and acquisition activity encouraged a rise in investment activity as companies began to return to growth agendas.
The new issues market remains quiet across Europe, with only a small A further change during the year was that our teams in number of significantly-sized IPOs being achieved.
Bristol, Glasgow and Leeds are now focused on portfolio management.
We are also in the process of moving our Strategy and competitive advantage teams in Padua and Nantes back to Milan and Paris 3is development in recent years has been built on the four respectively.
key elements of our strategy: developing the business Across our three activities, 3is scale has allowed us internationally, building a balanced investment business, to develop a multi-specialist approach which can deliver the using the network as a key competitive advantage and best resource to new business opportunities and from the investing in growth companies.
management of key relationships with major companies and Today, 3i is active in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US, professional advisers.
with 42% of our assets now outside the UK.
Of our A good illustration of this is our ability, within industry investment in the year, 51% was in continental Europe and sectors, to bring together the chief executives of our portfolio a further 10% in the US and Asia Pacific.
companies and directors of the leading international Buy-outs account for 53% of assets, growth capital businesses.
This provides origination opportunities and 35% and venture capital 12%.
creates value for our portfolio companies.
3is network of relationships around the world The establishment of specialist teams is especially continues to deliver significant competitive advantage and is clear in our venture business.
This is now focused on nine of integral to all that we do.
Market access, the ability to convert our offices, located in the main technology hubs within opportunities into good investments, add value to our Europe, the US and Asia Pacific and coordinated by sector portfolio companies and realise value, all depend upon it.
leadership teams in healthcare, software, communications Our strategy of investing in companies with significant and ESAT electronics, semiconductors and advanced potential to grow is increasingly appropriate in a low inflation technologies.
and more internationally competitive environment.
Outlook Strategy implementation 3i has withstood some of the most volatile market conditions We have continued to drive improvement throughout the that I have seen in my 30 years in the industry and has business, particularly investment focus, in ensuring the best come through strongly.
It is a leader in its industry and one of from the network and in further efficiency programmes.
the few genuinely international businesses with competitive The combination of increased productivity and a scale.
The general macroeconomic drivers look more smaller number of companies in the portfolio enabled a favourable, the business model is delivering in each of our reduction in headcount of 13% from 858 to 750 during three key areas of activity: buy-outs, growth capital and the year.
venture capital and the business has the people, the network and the capital strength to grow significant value for our shareholders.
I would like to thank the Board, the staff and our shareholders for the tremendous support I have enjoyed in leading 3i.
I would also pay tribute to the entrepreneurs who build the businesses that our industry supports 3i is in great shape and well and acknowledge it is largely their visions that provide positioned to grow value for our opportunity.
