BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Chief Executives statement I am pleased to be able to report that reflects enhancement of existing assets, for BG Group 2004 was another year of project acceleration and production added strong earnings progression underpinned by acquisitions made in 2004. by continuing underlying growth.
We During the year we drilled and evaluated have raised some of our key 2006 28 wells with a success rate of 64%, targets and made excellent progress bringing our five year average to 73%.
in accelerating some of our most Successful wells were drilled in Bolivia, important projects.
We remain confident Canada, Egypt, Kazakhstan, Thailand, of the Groups outstanding long-term Tunisia and in the UKCS.
In 2004, BG Group replaced 126% of OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE its proved reserves, giving a three year BG Group delivered a strong operating a replacement rate of 248%.
At constant performance during the year.
Turnover prices the one and three year reserves increased by 14% and total operating replacement rates were 149% and 257% profit was 1.5 billion an increase of 22% respectively.
We remain a top quartile over 2003 at constant US$ UK exchange performer on both reserves replacement rates and upstream prices operating rates and finding and development We are successfully profit increased by 8% for the year.
a costs compared to the performance of our peers based on data from 2003, which The Group continued to generate strong connecting high is the latest available.
Looking ahead we operating cash flows.
In spite of a value markets intend to remain a top quartile performer substantial capital investment programme on both measures.
totalling 1.9 billion for the year including to competitively acquisitions, we ended the year with In LNG our position as a sector leader priced gas.
In the USA our 3 planned import capacity has increased Frank Chapman During 2004, we delivered all the projects and, during 2004, BG Group was the due for completion.
This included first Chief Executive largest importer of LNG for the second liquids from the giant Karachaganak gas year running, accounting for more than condensate field in Kazakhstan exported 40% of total LNG imports into the USA.
via the Caspian Pipeline Consortium We have made good progress on the pipeline to western markets.
A significant supply side as well.
Equity volumes from achievement has been the acceleration of Atlantic LNG in Trinidad and Tobago were a number of key projects: Egyptian LNG 14% higher.
Short-term purchases of more phase one is due to begin in the second than four million tonnes per annum quarter of 2005, three months ahead of during 2004 made BG Group one of the schedule.
The second phase of Egyptian largest participants in the global LNG LNG is now due to start in the fourth short-term market.
We have also made quarter of 2005, some six months ahead substantial additions to our longer term of schedule.
This was already going to be supply volumes and look forward to our the fastest LNG project ever delivered with commencement of long-term supplies as only six years from the first exploration we move through 2005 and 2006.
Plans well to the anticipated first LNG cargo.
are in place to expand our US LNG import And now the acceleration, along with capacity and work has progressed on improved performance from our Atlantic LNG regasification terminals in the key LNG facility, has enabled us to increase European gas markets of the UK and Italy.
our LNG volume target for 2006, and says much about our project delivery capability.
Our Transmission and Distribution In Trinidad and Tobago we are now on businesses, focused in developing markets course to deliver the East Coast Marine with high potential for growth in gas Area project in 2005 instead of 2006.
First demand, also made strong progress LNG from the fourth phase of Atlantic in 2004.
Growth was most notable at LNG in Trinidad and Tobago is on track to Comgas, the largest gas distribution meet the project schedule.
company in Brazil, where volumes rose by 11% in the year and operating profit Our Exploration and Production business was up 38%.
has continued to perform strongly and remains the centre of gravity for the Power generation continues to be a significant driver of long-term gas Group.
We have increased our 2006 production target by 9.4% to 580 000 demand and the Group will remain focused on identifying growth barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 148. a For an explanation of how BG Group calculates its three year reserves replacement rate and its finding and development costs refer to the definitions on page 149.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 Chief Executives statement continued opportunities in this segment.
The at an average annual rate of 7-10% contribution of the Power segment to the a significant multiple of overall gas Groups operating profits was slightly demand growth.
Group operating profit m below the 2003 figure due to the impact In this exciting industry context what of the weaker US Dollar on the translation we are seeing now is a major growth of our profits from the Philippines.
opportunity in the energy sector and PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT one on which BG Group is specifically In addition to the underlying improvements focused.
Our core strategy is to identify and access high value markets and then in the value of our portfolio, a further contribution has been made through to secure competitively priced gas to connect to those markets.
In Egypt, additional equity purchased in the Rosetta field was has already demonstrated its resilience and it is one that we believe can be the followed by production increases, thereby adding early value to this acquisition.
foundation for strong growth right Other acquisitions in Mauritania, Trinidad through to the end of the decade and 02 03 04 and Tobago and Canada were primarily for beyond.
Our target OECD markets are their exploration potential but early new North America and Europe key regions production was added in Trinidad and for gas demand growth.
In the developing Tobago, using the Groups existing business world we are focusing on India and Brazil, both because of their fast-growing longto commercialise future production.
Further exploration licences were awarded term demand for gas and because of the success we have already had in operating or acquired in Norway, the UKCS and Brazil.
Earnings per share, excluding in those markets.
a exceptional items pence The sale of our interest in the North The reliable, competitively priced supply Caspian Production Sharing Agreement, 4 which includes the Kashagan oil field, has needed to serve both our developed and developing markets will come from our been subject to continuing discussions between the Government of the Republic building on established positions for example in India, Trinidad and Tobago, of Kazakhstan and the pre-empting partners.
Our plans assume the disposal Egypt and the North Sea.
But we will also be looking to new supply sources of the interest during 2005: in the meantime we are protecting the value of throughout the Atlantic Basin and also in the Middle East and in Africa.
Another key the asset by continuing to function as a full joint venture partner and by working element of our strategy is how we see our evolving set of assets increasingly to complete the sale.
02 03 04 complementing each other: adding value STRATEGY FOR SUCCESS by building connections as well as As I look forward, I believe that the business unlocking new opportunities.
This is environment will continue to be good for where our focus on markets is key.
The industry consensus is that oil this approach means is that the strength prices, which increased sharply during of our portfolio increases through these 2004, have moved to structurally higher connections and through the further levels.
This underpins firmer long-term gas opportunities for growth that they create.
prices through either direct indexation or CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY inter-fuel competition.
On a global level, by 2015, the combined effects of replacing Corporate Responsibility CR is a core part of all our business decisions.
To put existing supplies and meeting incremental demand growth will mean that major new it simply, we believe that it is good business to operate responsibly.
production will be required somewhere in the region of 40% of current demand We aim to run our business in accordance which is equivalent to 100 billion cubic feet with our Statement of Business Principles.
In BG Groups key markets of the These Principles provide us with a set of USA and the UK, historically lower cost values and principles we share across the indigenous supplies are depleting, creating Group and which are implemented in the a significant shift towards import following ways: dependency.
Changing patterns of supply and demand will also drive large increases Through responsible conduct.
We are committed to high standards of in imports and inter-regional trades.
I believe that LNG will play an important corporate governance and expect consistent behaviour from all our role in meeting these challenges: the global LNG market is expected to grow employees around the world.
See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 148. a See note 10 on page 81 which gives details of earnings per share including exceptional items.
12.0 888 19.4 1 251 23.8 1 522 B BG G G GR RO OU UP P A AN NN NU UA AL L R RE EP PO OR RT T A AN ND D A AC CC CO OU UN NT TS S 2 20 00 04 4 Being responsible to our people.
We are LOOKING FORWARD an international business with Alongside our distinctive strategy, employees in over 20 countries and our BG Group has an explicit set of competitive responsibilities include developing our advantages.
Unique to the sector is our employees, protecting their health and focus on gas combined with our marketsafety and keeping them secure at work.
We have an organisational structure which is strongly aligned with Being responsible to the societies in our strategy.
We have a portfolio of high which we operate.
This means building quality assets working ever more positive relationships with the powerfully together and we have a communities where we do business.
heritage of skills right across the gas Our aim is to manage the impact chain.
These skills have enabled us from our operations and to work to establish a successful track record of with those communities to help exploration and project delivery as well them benefit.
as giving us the ability to handle the Being environmentally responsible.
immense technical and commercial We strive to do this by protecting complexities characterising todays gas and enhancing the environment, chains.
And pulling together all of these by managing the impacts of our tangible assets are the intrinsic qualities operations, and by meeting or of who we are and how we go about exceeding legal requirements.
Herein lies the principal, sustainable source of our competitive Our Lost Time Injury Frequency improved advantage.
As I look forward into 2005 by 15% in 2004, reducing to 0.6 injuries per and beyond, I am confident that this million man hours worked.
However, we combination of strategy, organisation, deeply regret that there was a contractor 5 5 skills and portfolio, together with our fatality in our Iqara telecommunications fundamental approach to this business, operation in India.
Any injury is will continue to create and deliver unacceptable and we have disseminated exceptional value for our shareholders.
the lessons learned with our partners and contractors throughout the Company.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE EXECUTIVE During 2004, we made two appointments to our Executive team: Jrn Berget was appointed Executive Vice President, BG Advance he will be responsible for the continuing development of our strategic technical and commercial capabilities: and Peter Hughes was appointed Frank Chapman Executive Vice President, Group Strategy.
