Aviva plc 2004 Group chief executives review Operating profit before tax million 2000 1,325 2001 1,935 1,720 2002 2003 1,906 2004 2,344 Richard Harvey Group chief executive Overview On a modied statutory basis, group operating profit before tax was During 2004 we strengthened our competitive position in our key 1,861 million 2003: 1,490 million.
Our total dividend for 2004 is markets.
Our continuing rigorous focus on profitable growth has 25.36 pence, an increase of 5% with a dividend cover of 2.25 times, in resulted in Aviva delivering another strong performance.
line with our dividend policy.
The group delivered an overall profit before tax of 1,488 million 2003: 1,390 million.
We benefit from our diversied business model, which combines substantial life and general insurance operations, supported by a broad Group capital and financial strength range of products sold through a variety of distribution channels.
Shareholders funds increased to 12.9 billion 2003: 10.8 billion The long-term savings environment continues to be tough, but there boosted by our strong operational performance and the issuance of the are some signs of recovery.
The general insurance markets in which we direct capital instrument.
Net asset value per share was up 10% to operate are becoming more competitive.
We achieved our operational targets for the year.
We set about The solvency position of our main trading operations remains robust, improving value for money, and delivering cost and service excellence with excess capital measured on the Insurance Groups Directive of for our customers.
We manage our performance against return on 3.6 billion 2003: 2.4 billion and the orphan estate of our UK life capital targets.
We employ an efficient capital structure which means businesses was 4.5 billion 2003: 4.3 billion, based on a realistic we can allocate our capital across the group in a manner that maximises assumption of liabilities.
the potential for profitable growth.
The groups capital position was further strengthened by the issue of a These results are a solid base on which we can build for the future as direct capital instrument of 1.0 billion in November 2004, which was we focus on growth of our business, enhancing our returns to four times oversubscribed.
The transaction allowed us to lock into shareholders and delivering on our promises to customers, who favourable funding rates.
continue to expect high quality at competitive prices.
Attaining operational excellence Group results Controlling costs is an important element in our drive for profitable Our pre-tax operating profit of 2,344 million 2003: 1,906 million growth.
We continue to improve our operational efficiency by taking reected a stronger performance across our businesses coupled with the advantage of economies of scale.
We also apply strict financial targets benefit of the actions we have taken to reduce costs.
Our annualised for developments and new projects across our businesses.
return on capital employed of 14.4% 2003: 13.1% reects these We plan to create a further 950 jobs offshore in 2005 to service our strong results.
Norwich Union businesses in the UK.
This builds on the 3,700 jobs we Worldwide long-term savings new business sales were 17.2 billion have already created offshore and is a further major investment as part 2003: 14.9 billion as we saw some recovery in equity markets.
of our focus on excellent customer service.
We expect to conclude our Long-term savings new business sales in continental Europe were offshoring plans by the end of 2007, by which time we shall have up 8,339 million 2003: 6,932 million, with strong performances from to 7,000 roles offshore.
Worldwide gross premiums Reecting this spirit of focus, in 2004 we have continued the rollout of written were 33,043 million 2003: 31,184 million.
Pre-tax life the Aviva brand.
We now manage a more focused brand portfolio.
Aviva operating return on a European embedded value EEV basis was has a presence across Europe, Asia and North America and in 2005 we 1,611 million 2003: 1,496 million.
will work to further strengthen this young brand.
The international Our general insurance operating profit of 1,326 million reach of the brand has helped unite our people and opened the door to 2003: 911 million was another excellent result.
We achieved a new international marketing opportunities such as our sponsorship of combined operating ratio COR of 97%, beating our group COR the Asian badminton tour and the Australian Open tennis tournament.
target, which is 100% in each of the three years from the start of 2004.
06 Aviva plc 2004 14.4% Return on capital employed Taking into account all our cost-efficiencies during 2004, the net pre-tax People benefit to the profit and loss account for the year relative to 2003 was Aviva excels in managing complexity.
We face a number of challenges, 52 million.
This was ahead of our target.
including an increasingly tough regulatory environment, changes to accounting standards, evolving customer needs, diverse markets and Financial reporting distribution channels.
In 2005, Aviva will report its statutory results in line with new International We are turning these challenges into a potential competitive advantage Financial Reporting Standard IFRS.
We have chosen to adopt the by using our size to drive down costs and achieve economies of scale, European embedded value EEV principles early for our 2004 supplementary by transferring our best ideas across the group, and by directing results.
These principles are a renement of our approach and provide resource and expertise to manage change.
We have made great signicantly enhanced disclosures to assist the investment markets.
efforts to listen to our customers and respond to their needs.
We have also been preparing to meet the requirements of the Prudential Sourcebook PSB for insurers introduced by the Financial Services Authority.
Our competitive advantage depends on employing people with different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, and who feel valued for the Taken together, IFRS, EEV and PSB represent a substantial change in positive contribution they can make to Avivas success.
I thank all our how we report our financial position and performance.
Thanks to our staff worldwide for what they have achieved and continue to do so on investment in a groupwide programme to update our financial reporting behalf of our customers and shareholders.
and financial management systems and the hard work of hundreds of our staff Aviva is well positioned to meet the technical and Outlook regulatory challenges that these changes represent.
Overall, Aviva is in a strong, competitive position.
Our long-term saving operations are focused on writing profitable business and Industry perspective improving margins ahead of increased sales volumes.
We have a In my role as chairman of the Association of British Insurers, I have disciplined general insurance business producing high-quality earnings.
continued to lead the industrys work on improving communications Our cost-efficiency initiatives put us in a strong position to achieve with governments, regulators and consumers.
The trust of stakeholders in our industry has been eroded.
Customer There are signs that consumers are slowly regaining their appetite for confidence has been damaged by the fall in value of their savings.
Our business mix, geographical spread and distribution capability We have worked with regulators to introduce far-reaching changes to mean Aviva is well placed to capture more than our fair share of an upturn.
further protect consumers and raise standards.
This has occurred most We have set ourselves ambitious and challenging growth targets recently with the introduction of new standards in general insurance.
We are pushing ourselves to reach even higher levels of As we emerge from these tough times, the winners will be those performance.
I am confident that we shall succeed.
companies that demonstrate their integrity and regain the trust of their customers and shareholders first.
Depolarisation in the UK will bring further changes to the industry, with many independent financial advisers IFAs choosing to represent a reduced number of core providers, while single-company suppliers may Including life European embedded value EEV operating return before amortisation of add others to their range.
We are responding to these changes, having goodwill and exceptional items.
signed a series of multi-tie agreements with major IFAs, and we are in Return based on opening equity shareholders funds on an EEV basis.
discussion with a number of other major distributors.
Combined operating ratio COR broadly expresses the total of claims costs, commission and expenses as a percentage of premiums, and is one of our key performance measures.
Including life achieved operating profit before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items and has not been restated.
