4 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Group Chief Executives review Although the non-core businesses held strong positions in their respective markets they were characterised by a number of factors that did not meet with our objectives of building a simpler, stronger business.
These included high cost gearing, high earnings volatility, insufficient scalability and insufficient synergy with the rest of the Group.
In addition, these businesses consumed management and operational time far in excess of their relative profit contribution.
We recognise cost cutting alone is not the path to a strong, sustainable business.
Therefore, we will continue to invest in the Group where we believe we can generate growth and value.
We have started 2005 with a simpler business We made rapid progress in 2004.
This is a focused on our core lending and retail tribute to the hard work put in across the Group during what was, at times, a very banking operations.
Our hard work in 2004 challenging period in many parts of our business.
has given us a stronger, healthier base for Lending building future growth.
We have continued to build on our core proposition of lending focused on profitable Steven Crawshaw Group Chief Executive segments of the secured lending market.
We believe that good growth and attractive margins are available in these markets and, by balancing innovative product design with prudent risk management, Bradford & Bingley can continue I was delighted to be appointed Group Chief refocus and grow its branch-based Retail to prosper.
Executive by the Board in March.
Following my business: appointment I immediately instigated a Our balance sheet has continued to show fundamental strategic review to look at the dispose of businesses not core to its healthy growth with total managed lending shape of the Group, the changing nature of operations: and balances growing 12% to 28.9 billion 2003: our operating environment and how best to 25.9 billion.
Total new lending during 2004 create value for shareholders in the future.
reduce costs in the core business.
was slightly below the unusually high levels in The conclusions of this review were 2003 when we took advantage of buoyant announced to the market in May and revolved I felt the need for decisive action to be taken conditions to add scale to the balance sheet.
around the main theme of building a simpler, which included the decision to dispose of This year new advances were 9.2 billion stronger, more profitable business.
In order to businesses that had formed part of the 2003: 9.9 billion including acquired assets.
do this I concluded the Group should: strategy of the organisation since before the float in 2000.
Residential managed loan balances increased continue to develop a strong specialist 14% to 23.6 billion 2003: 20.7 billion and Lending business: total new residential lending was flat at 7.7 5 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 billion 2003: 7.7 billion.
Residential loans Commercial market was very competitive.
multiples on new lending have also remained accounted for 84% of total new lending in Consequently, we pulled back from making conservative with averages of 2.6x single 2004 2003: 78%.
loans where margins were compressed to income and 2.2x joint income 2003: 2.5x and below the level that we believe to be in the 2.2x respectively.
Gross residential lending in the second half of the best interest of our shareholders.
However, year was impacted by the deceleration in the we remain active in the commercial property Because of the extremely low levels of arrears market in the fourth quarter and disruption finance field and will continue to take across the loan portfolio together with surrounding the implementation of mortgage opportunities to lend profitably in the future.
recoveries against old loans that were previously regulation.
We ran down our pipelines in Margins on new lending were maintained written off, the Group has had a small release preparation for mortgage regulation to ensure a during the year.
This, together with the benefit from provisions for bad and doubtful debts of smooth transfer to a new mortgage system on of continued balance sheet growth, generated 2.0 million 2003: 6.6 million charge.
We the 31 October and to allow the intermediary Lending income growth of 7% to 314.3 maintain a conservative stance towards community to adjust to the new environment.
million 2003: 294.6 million and profit before provisioning seeking to ensure cover against all tax growth of 9% to 249.6 million.
Residential bad debt We maintained our margins and credit quality Group net interest margin declined 23bp to provisions represent 0.21% of managed requirements in the second half, preferring to 132bp 2003: 155bp due to the impact of residential assets 2003: 0.27%.
take on high quality loans rather than push for changes in the mix of assets and liabilities on volume as the market slowed.
We also took the balance sheet as newer balances replaced Balance Sheet and Capital action to organise our Lending business in the mature elements of our book and as we Income from Treasury & Reserves decreased preparation for the reduced levels of business deliberately diversified our sources of funding.
16% to 54.9 million 2003: 65.7 million and we are expecting in the near term.
A slight profit before tax decreased 19% to 46.7 decline in the volume of portfolio acquisitions During the last few years, arrears and million 2003: 57.6 million.
The combination to 1.3 billion 2003: 1.4 billion, and lower repossessions have been at unprecedentedly of increasing interest rates and our rising cost volumes of new lending on the former low levels.
In 2004 the level of arrears of funding has constrained earnings in this building society book 2004: 0.2 billion: 2003: increased, reflecting the tightening in the part of the Group during 2004.
Total assets 0.4 billion also contributed to more normal interest rate environment.
However, the increased 10% to 35.5 billion 2003: 32.2 levels of residential lending growth than we number of loans more than three months in billion reflecting the growth in lending saw in 2003. arrears at the year end still remains extremely balances.
This has been funded by retail low by historical standards at 0.77% of loans deposit growth, secured and traditional We have a strong track record in the secured outstanding by number across the whole wholesale markets.
lending market and, in particular, in specialist book and similarly at only 0.52% for the buymortgage products.
In 2004 our market share to-let portfolio 2003: 0.99% and 0.25% Our strategy is to diversify our funding to was 21.8% of the buy-to let market 2003: respectively.
This compares favourably with promote a stronger balance sheet in the 24.6% and we maintained our position in the Council of Mortgage Lenders statistics for the medium-term.
During 2004 we increased our self-cert market.
We have also continued to market as a whole of 0.82% and 0.63% for Savings product range and made a meaningful build our new Lifetime equity release product buy-to-let.
Our arrears and bad debts remain addition to balances for the first time since the and achieved a market share of around 14.1%, low due to the high quality of the Groups Company floated.
We have also entered new consolidating our position as one of the loan collateral, lending policies, underwriting secured funding markets.
We issued 2 billion leading players in this rapidly growing area.
of covered bonds in May and established a master trust securitisation programme in Commercial and Housing Association lending Loan-to-value LTV ratios on new residential October with a 9 billion pool of mortgages, balances increased slightly to 5.3 billion lending continue to be conservative at 74% against which we have already borrowed 2 2003: 5.2 billion whilst new loans fell to 2003: 77% and the LTV ratio across the billion.
We intend this programme to form a 1.5 billion 2003: 2.2 billion.
This segment whole book has increased slightly to 67% on substantial element of our funding plans in the of our book accounted for 16% of total new an original basis and 45% on an indexed basis future.
These growth areas supplement our lending in 2004 2003: 22%.
Income active international fundraising activity in the 6 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Group Chief Executives review wholesale markets.
Although beneficial to the management of low productivity advisers and The non-core businesses contributed income structure and stability of the balance sheet in sale of the non-core businesses.
Profit before of 139.0 million while they remained part of the medium-term, our greater use of the tax and exceptional items increased by 34% the Group 2003: 162.8 million and made a secured and retail markets has increased the to 27.1 million 2003: 20.2 million.
loss before exceptional items of 8.3 million total cost of funding across the Group in the 2003: loss of 9.8 million.
At the start of short term.
The investment and insurance agreement 2004 these businesses employed 3,670 people, we announced with Legal & General in almost half of the Groups total.
Reducing the Our capital position remains strong with a Tier November anticipated the opportunities open number of employees by this order of 1 ratio of 7.3% and a total capital ratio of to the Group under the new regulatory magnitude provides the opportunity to simplify 13.1% 2003: 7.7% and 14.0% respectively.
This innovative agreement moved the support functions across the Group.
Group away from being an independent Retail financial adviser.
This, together with the Costs Our Retail business has two key elements: simplification of our continuing branch-based A rigorous review of costs identified substantial mortgage broking business announced in opportunities to reduce expenditure in the Savings: providing a range of our own January 2005 has helped to reduce the core businesses by the end of 2005.
The Savings products, both in the branch and complexity and risk in the sales process.
Group is on track to remove 35 million of through direct channels, and expenditure in 2005, rising to 40 million in There is still a lot of work to be done in the 2006 at 2004 prices and volumes.
Part of Core Distribution: providing a wide range Retail division over the course of 2005, but I the one-off exceptional costs of 31.4 million of our own and other companies financial am confident that we will be able to grow incurred in 2004 arises due to actions taken services products mainly through our branch from our current, small base.
However, this to reduce operating costs.
network, but also through direct channels.
business will always be a smaller component of the Group than Lending.
In addition to these cost initiatives, a further In combination, these two business areas have 10 million annual cost saving is expected to performed well in 2004 generating a substantial Disposals be realised from the partnership with Legal & 35% increase in profit before tax to 59.6 During the strategic review the Board General announced in November.
This has been concluded that the property services driven by profitability and from simplifying businesses Estate Agency and SecureMove, The majority of the cost savings identified are the business.
Charcol and the smaller mid-to-high net realisable as a consequence of simplifying the worth IFA businesses Charcol Holden organisation around fewer lines of business, a Our Savings business showed good Meehan and Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave smaller central overhead and more efficient performance with net balance growth of 1.1 were not core to the Groups operations and operation of front and back office processes.
billion arising from our reinvigoration of this should be sold.
The number of employees in the core business business.
We have become more competitive has reduced, as expected, from 3,781 to 3,152 and have raised our profile in the market.
This We began to look for new owners for these employees.
Cost control activities should not is the first meaningful growth in balances since businesses in May.
The disposal programme impact our plans for growth, the Lending and the float and our new internet savings channel was concluded with the sale of Charcol in Retail businesses will be the least affected.
was an important part of this growth.
The sales were conducted swiftly income increased 6% to 121.0 million 2003: and we achieved reasonable value for each of Group Services operating costs showed an 114.2 million and profit before tax increased them given their performance and current increase of 11% to 77.0m 2003: 69.6m.
Exceptional costs of was driven by increased activity in the Group 20.3 million and a loss on sale of 123.2 centre related to the disposal processes, cost The refocus and simplification of our core million, mainly the write-off of the associated cutting initiatives, and an increase in the costs of Distribution business included a reorganisation goodwill, have been incurred in 2004. processing claims and compensation payments of branch management structures, for sales made in the past by our independent simplification of sales processes, performance advisory business.
We expect our move away 7 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Our Retail business Our Retail business has two key elements, Savings and Distribution: Savings develops and sells our own competitive range of deposit based investment products through 300 branches, online and via post telephone.
the Distribution business offers its customers a wide choice of financial services products through the branch network and direct channels.
B&B has the UKs leading mortgage broking business and also offers a wide choice of highly competitive products from a range of providers including general insurance, wealth and personal loan products, which are provided by third parties.
Investment and protection products are provided by Legal & General.
2004 has been a year for simplifying the Retail business and laying the foundations for future growth Paul Saxton Managing Director, Retail 8 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2004 Group Chief Executives review from providing independent advice to a simpler, Government is maintaining its ambitions for multi-tied proposition will generate marked further education.
All these indicators support improvements which, together with the other continued and sustainable growth of the buycost measures already taken, will improve to-let, self-cert and lifetime segments of the performance in 2005. mortgage market.
Market outlook Business outlook Lead indicators and current trading show the We completed a great deal of groundwork in housing market is slowing from the unusually 2004 and have significantly changed the shape strong rates of growth experienced in the last and size of the Group for the better and grown few years, as five consecutive increases in the profits in the core business along the way.
Bank of Englands base rate have started to take effect.
We welcome this deceleration from Our challenge in 2005 is to continue the the unsustainable levels of growth experienced work we started in 2004 and to build on the in the last few years.
stable foundations we have established for future growth.
We anticipate that the housing market will move into a period of consolidation with We will need to continue to grow our reduced house price inflation and transaction Lending business and rebuild our pipeline, volumes for the next couple of years.
to take forward the development of our branch-based Retail business, to maintain the Housing market fundamentals however remain momentum achieved in Savings, and to keep strong.
Interest rates and unemployment are control of costs.
both likely to remain at historically low levels, real household incomes should continue to The aim of these goals is to create a simpler, grow and housing demand is likely to outstrip stronger business that is better for our supply into the medium-term.
Low debt servicing costs mean that mortgage Steven Crawshaw affordability remains good and whilst we have Group Chief Executive seen some signs of arrears rising, we do not expect to see any material deterioration in the near-term.
As house prices stabilise, rental levels are rising in most parts of the country, tenant demand has been sustained and rental yields are hardening.
We believe that these factors, together with promised pension benefits, will support the underlying level of demand in the buy-to-let market.
Demographic indicators are positive for our chosen markets.
Household formation is rising, flexibility in the labour market is increasing, the pension crisis shows no sign of ending and the
