Caledonia Investments plc 04 Annual report 2004 Chief executives report This is the first year we are reporting our results as an investment trust, as we believe we have been meeting all the requirements for this status as from 1 April 2003.
However, as for all investment trusts, this can only be confirmed by the Inland Revenue at a time after the end of each financial year.
In the context of our new status, it is pleasing to note that we have been awarded the Brightest Newcomer by the Investment Trusts magazine.
Performance The year ended 31 March 2004 has seen strong growth in the value of our investment portfolio.
Net assets per share have grown from 915p at the beginning of the year to 1278p at 31 March 2004 a 40% growth.
As the FTSE All-Share index has grown by 27% over the same period, this represents outperformance in net assets for the year of around 13%.
Part of this outperformance can be attributed to the extent to which our investments have been in sectors which have grown at rates faster than the market as a whole, and nearly 8% of our outperformance can be Tim Ingram attributed to us having, in aggregate, invested in companies that Chief executive have themselves outperformed within their sectors.
Table 1 shows an attribution summary of our performance over the year.
Table 1 one year performance attribution Return % Market FTSE All-Share index 26.6 Stock selection 7.9 Sector allocation 7.0 Management and other expenses 1.8 Caledonias NAV per share 39.7 Notwithstanding our good one year performance, we continue to believe that, given our long term approach, our total shareholder return TSR measured over five and ten year periods, gives a better measure of how we are performing for our shareholders.
In this respect, as table 2 shows, for our TSR over five years we have again produced good absolute returns when the market as a whole has been negative, while we have also comfortably outperformed the market over ten years.
Table 2 5 and 10 year relative TSR performance Caledonia FTSE All-Share TSR TSR Outperformance To 31 March 2004 % % % 5 years 77.2 12.7 89.9 10 years 138.5 94.3 44.2 This again easily puts us in the top quartile for TSR performance when measured against the Association of Investment Trust Companies global growth sector.
Caledonia Investments plc 05 Annual report 2004 Table 3 New and follow-on investments Total Amount holding Investment m % Category Business New investments 1 Eddington Capital 15.8 50.0 Unquoted Fund of hedge funds management company, plus investment in fund Marketform 15.1 26.8 Unquoted Managing agent and insurance company SVB Holdings 14.0 5.3 Quoted Insurance company Melrose Resources 6.0 6.7 Quoted Oil and gas company MORI 5.8 16.0 Unquoted Opinion poll and market research company Oval 4.5 34.0 Unquoted Commercial lines insurance broker Tribal Group 2.3 1.6 Quoted Support services company 63.5 Follow-on investments 2 Polar Capital funds 14.4 24.6 Unquoted Investment in various new funds launched by Polar Capital Easybox 9.0 99.2 Unquoted Self storage business in Spain and Italy Paladin Resources 4.1 11.1 Quoted Oil and gas company Savills 3.3 3.8 Quoted Estate agency business Other 13.5 Includes drawdowns by various private equity funds 44.3 107.8 1.
Holding in the management company.
Holding in the management company was unchanged.
Investment activity Although we are long term investors, we are not forever investors We believe that we have, in particular, two distinctive characteristics and believe that there comes a time when it is appropriate for inherent in our investment style that help produce this performance.
During the year, we realised nearly 105m from such divestments, which are listed in table 4.
The first is the strong deal flow of investment opportunities that Table 4 Divestments are specifically presented to us as a result of our valuable reputation as a long term supportive and constructively active m investor.
In this respect, during the course of last year, our ICAP 26.4 investment committee evaluated over 170 potential and serious Meinl European Land 14.1 new investment opportunities.
We shortlist such opportunities 1 down to a more manageable number that are then intensively Offshore Logistics Bristow 12.9 evaluated.
Considerable time is spent making sure that such Polar Capital funds 11.9 investment opportunities are suitable for our approach, and Ionian fund 9.1 indeed that the entry price offers good value.
The most intensive Bateman Chapman 6.0 part of our appraisal is the assessment of the calibre and capabilities of the management team.
Out of all these opportunities Compco 3.7 during the year, we invested in just seven new investments for Quintain Estates & Development 2.3 a total amount of around 64m.
In addition, we invested a further Other 18.3 44m as follow-on funding in existing investments.
Both new and follow-on investments are shown in table 3.
Redemption of loan note on maturity plus receipt from capital reduction.
The second significant distinctive characteristic in our investment style is our hands-on constructive involvement with each investee Naturally we seek to maximise returns when we realise an company, whether they are quoted or unquoted.
However, care is taken to ensure that we do not damage provides more value creation than a passive investment style our valuable reputation as a long term supportive investor.
and has therefore significantly contributed to our outperformance.
In most of our major investments we have representation on the board as evidenced by the fact that we have a Caledonia executive as a director on the boards of 16 of our top 20 investments.
Throughout the year, we have used these positions to influence constructively the operations and strategies of each investee company and in all cases maintain a close contact with the management of all of our major investee companies.
Caledonia Investments plc 06 Annual report 2004 Chief executives report continued Table 5 Significant investments since the year end Total Amount holding Investment m % Category Business Cobepa 20.0 10.0 Unquoted Belgium-based investment company Oval 10.5 34.0 Unquoted Commercial lines insurance broker follow-on investment Incisive Media 8.3 6.8 Quoted Business publishing Tribal Group 5.0 5.0 Quoted Support services for the UK public sector follow-on investment Liquidity Recent activity The chairmans statement has explained the background to, and Since the year end, we have invested about 50m.
Table 5 lists brief details of, the recent proposal to pay an elective special our most significant recent investments.
More details of this are contained in our shareholder circular dated 19 May 2004.
As the circular explains, based Our most significant divestment has been the sale of our stake on valuations at 30 April 2004, the maximum estimated cash in Radio Investments, which should realise 14m.
requirement for this proposal would be 158m.
In this context, The future as at the same date, Caledonia had committed term bank We are continuing to see a strong flow of good business facilities of 200m.
This means that, notwithstanding the opportunities where our long term active approach is valued and potential cash requirements of the proposal, we are well placed can create outperformance.
However, as in the past, we will be to take advantage of new investment opportunities.
highly selective in choosing in which companies to invest and will be careful not to overpay.
Shareholders In line with my comments last year, we have been continuing By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are to make company presentations to private client fund managers strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement and brokers in order to broaden the market for our shares.
in investee companies and through divesting when appropriate, As a result, the percentage of our shares held by retail investors we seek to maintain our distinctive performance.
Over the long term, our ability to increase the net asset value per share should provide the main component of shareholder returns.
Nonetheless, we are fully aware of the desire of our shareholders also to see a narrowing of the discount of our share price compared with net assets per share.
It is therefore pleasing to Tim Ingram note that, whereas this discount was 30% at 31 March 2003, Chief executive by 31 March 2004 the discount had narrowed to 20% and has further narrowed since then.
We plan to continue our efforts to expand our appeal to retail investors during the current year.
