CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BOC performed strongly in 2004 in a generally favourable economic environment.
Each quarter we reported adjusted operating profit and earnings significantly ahead of the equivalent period in 2003.
Our two gases lines of business, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, saw mostly buoyant trading conditions although the strength of the rand restrained industrial activity in South Africa.
Semiconductor manufacturers increased their investment this year after an extended period of reduced activity and this benefited BOC Edwards.
As a result we reported adjusted operating profit for the year of 576.9 million, up 15 per cent, on turnover up nine per cent at 4,599.3 million.
Adjusted profit before tax rose 20 per cent.
I explained last year that our adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items that would otherwise create distortions.
Also our year-on-year comparisons are at constant currency, shorn of the effects of converting local profits into sterling.
This way we show clearly how we performed in the competitive markets of the 50 or so countries where we operate.
When I describe our business performance below I will do so on this basis.
Our statutory results include exceptional items and reflect currency movements when comparing performance with last year.
On this basis turnover increased by six per cent, operating profit by 28 per cent and profit before tax by 17 per cent.
Successful businesses Process Gas Solutions delivered a nine per cent increase in turnover and raised adjusted operating profit by ten per cent.
At the start of the year in China we and our joint venture partners announced that we would invest over US$100 million in three schemes at Taiyuan, Suzhou and in the Pearl River region.
In June 2004 we announced the setting up of a joint venture with Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Company Ltd SPC.
This is the second joint venture with a subsidiary of Sinopec, Chinas leading petrochemical company, following our agreement in 2002 with Sinopec Yangzi Petrochemical Corporation.
This second joint venture intends to invest in some 3,000 tonnes a day of industrial gas production assets currently owned by SPC before embarking on building a new world-scale air separation unit.
This flow of new orders means that we will double our production capacity in China by the end of 2005, with a corresponding increase in turnover.
Elsewhere we were successful in winning key hydrogen orders for BP and Sunoco refineries in the US, in acquiring Duke Energys 30 per cent ownership interest in Compaa fide Nitrgeno fide Cantarell, the joint venture company that owns the worlds largest nitrogen complex SIGNIFICANTLY in Mexico, and in winning the order with our joint venture partners for the largest air separation unit in Thailand.
As well as supplying hydrogen IMPROVED for todays applications we continue to invest for the opportunities predicted for hydrogen energy in the decades to come.
PERFORMANCE Industrial and Special Products grew both turnover and adjusted operating profit by three per cent and ten per cent respectively.
2004 OVER 2003 was the first full year of contributions from two recent acquisitions, namely Praxairs Polish gases business and Air Products packaged gas business in Canada.
06 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004 Chief executives review BOC Edwards saw the long-awaited upturn in investment by the semiconductor industry as well as increased demand from growing markets, notably flat panel displays in Asia.
The result was a 27 per cent rise in turnover and a 181 per cent increase in adjusted operating profit.
Gist, our logistics business, did well to maintain turnover following the loss last year of Marks & Spencers general merchandise business.
Adjusted operating profit fell by 14 per cent, but in 2003 we included a 4.1 million gain resulting from the M&S contract termination: without this one-off payment adjusted operating profit would have been flat year on year.
Afrox hospitals continued to grow and perform well, turnover rising by nine per cent and adjusted operating profit by 16 per cent.
Managing to the highest standards In November 2003 we announced that African Oxygen Limited We continue to use our global structure to transfer best operating and had agreed to sell its majority shareholding in Afrox Healthcare Limited commercial practice, to offer the highest standards of service to all our to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment customers, and to meet the needs of our key customers wherever they investors.
We then announced in January 2004 our intention to sell our US do business in the world.
Our operating procedures are supported by packaged gas business, part of our north American Industrial and Special global programmes such as our Code of Conduct and we work hard to Products unit, to Airgas for up to US$200 million.
We completed the US tap the full potential of our diverse and talented workforce.
disposal successfully in July this year while the Afrox Healthcare sale remains It is important that we manage all our business risks, not just the subject to final clearance by the competition authorities in South Africa.
Operating as we do in a hazardous industry, everyone The motives for these two disposals were very different.
In Afrox must pay the greatest attention to safety, whether it be the safety of Healthcare we have a business in which we have invested successfully fellow employees, of our customers and suppliers or indeed of those over recent years.
The medium to long-term future for private healthcare in the communities where we live and work.
We concentrate on is uncertain in South Africa and we had the opportunity to sell a highly making safety second nature for all our employees.
By managing these successful business and let it develop further under new black economic non-financial risks we protect our business and the reputation of BOC.
Our US packaged gas business also received There has been one change this year to the executive management much attention and investment over the years, but it never fulfilled its team.
Greg Sedgwick returned to his native Australia to take up an promise.
Its sale and the successful transfer of over 1,000 of our employees appointment as chief executive of a listed building products company: to the new owner is a good outcome.
We retain a large presence in I wish him well in his future career.
Mark Nichols, who had been based the US, with substantial and successful businesses that will benefit from in Singapore, has succeeded Greg as Group director for business increased management focus and a reduced overhead cost base.
BOC is fortunate in having good people at all levels of the The two significant joint ventures we have established in the last organisation and we place great emphasis on recruiting, developing and two years Linde BOC Process Plants and Japan Air Gases continue retaining the best people wherever we find them in the world.
a diverse workforce and I take a personal interest in ensuring that this diversity is reflected increasingly at all levels.
Cash I thank all employees of BOC for their hard work and for the Operating cash flow was 758.5 million, up some eight per cent on last contribution they have made to a successful year.
Keeping our customers year, due to improved operating profit and better management of working satisfied is more important than ever and we strive to deliver the same capital.
In addition, proceeds from disposals and lower levels of capital high standard of service wherever our customers choose to do business expenditure resulted in a decline in our net borrowings for the sixth with us.
We work hard to deliver the financial returns our shareholders successive quarter, ending the year down 405.7 million at 962.4 million.
We are also well aware of the wider responsibilities we have to This was after paying a further 64 million into the main UK pensions the economic and social life of the countries where we operate.
All of scheme, an increase of 28 million over last year.
this depends on the people of BOC and they respond by delivering high performance day by day.
Tony Isaac Chief executive 07 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
