80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 3 Chief Executives Review I am pleased to report a welcome improvement OPERATIONAL REVIEW Central European Group CEG in performance during 2004.
We have divested Securing major outsourcing opportunities At constant currency rates, sales grew 8.1% the loss making electroplating operations and remains a strategic focus to support our top and operating profit was ahead 17.2%.
poor performing facilities have been sold, line growth and margin enhancement.
Although a difficult environment for the transferred or closed.
Our PVD businesses Bodycotes outsourcing initiative offers manufacturing sector of the economies have been consolidated into a strategic alliance manufacturers lower total cost, equal or better served by this SBU our strategies of pursuing to provide critical mass in this growing market.
The key is our outsourcing work, transferring technology and We have sharpened our Key Performance technical expertise in niche technologies which optimising operational efficiencies paid off.
Indicator KPI metrics, standardised our are not core to most manufacturers and our The targeted capital investment in equipment reporting and improved benchmarking across highly productive model where we operate at and people has allowed us to gain market share the Group.
All of these actions are helping to optimum efficiency.
As predicted, the trend to while improving the mix of work processed.
Meanwhile, our successful outsourcing and closure of in-house facilities, rights issue strengthened the balance sheet.
which is well established in Europe, is All automotive focused facilities are now We have closed or sold 42 facilities in the past accelerating in North America, particularly in certied to the stringent TS 16959 while most 3 years 13 in 2004 and acquired 10 new automotive.
Outsourced work from Strategic facilities will achieve ISO 14001 environmental businesses 4 in 2004.
We now have 261 Partnerships SP and Long Term Agreements certication by the end of 2005.
This positions facilities operating in 26 countries.
LTA accounted for 17% of Group turnover us in line with quality and responsibility as compared to 13% in 2003. expectations of world class manufacturers.
Excluding the disposed electroplating and PVD Technology transfer initiatives continue to Our network of East European facilities sales and using constant currency exchange be successful, with niche capabilities being was expanded at the start of 2005 by the rates, sales grew 8.5% compared to 2003, transferred geographically to existing facilities.
commissioning of a facility in Poland which of which 8.0% points were an organic increase.
These high value added services enhance targets the high end aerospace and tooling With stable automotive markets, improved customer satisfaction and lead to additional markets.
We today announced the acquisition demand from general manufacturers, a strong revenue.
of four well-resourced plants in Poland.
rebound from the Industrial Gas Turbines We anticipate continued growth in our The cross selling and bundling of multiple IGT sector, new outsourcing business and Eastern European operations during 2005 services creates a unique offering which increased market share, we were more able both organically and by acquisition.
appeals to those manufacturers that wish to offset cost pressures which resulted from to optimise their performance by focusing France, Belgium, Italy FBI normal wage and benefit increases and volatile on core competencies.
Our geographic and At constant currency rates, sales improved energy costs.
Operating profit before goodwill market spread reduces the risk associated by 1.2% but operating profit was at.
amortisation and exceptional items grew with any one account.
Our top ten customers 25.0% to 52.1m compared with 41.7m The challenges we face in France in particular accounted for approximately 10% of total a year ago.
Without our self help programme are market migration, price pressures, mix turnover, compared to 9% in 2003. and improved sales effort we would not change and cost creep.
All facilities in France have been able to post such an improvement Heat Treatment are now ISO 9000-2000 certied.
I thank all the people in At constant currency rates, Group wide we now have several plants qualied to Bodycote who have helped deliver these sales grew 6.7% and operating profit the aerospace mandated quality program improving results.
ACMA-PRO which will be incorporated into the North American originated equivalent STRATEGY North America Nadcap in 2005.
Belgium delivered modest Our strategy is based on disciplined At constant currency rates, sales increased sales growth and moved into profit after investments in technologies with a good future, 7.0% and operating profit was up 13.0%.
rationalisation of 3 facilities into 2. along with continued support of outsourced Aerospace, IGT, and oil and gas all saw business from strong manufacturers focusing Nordic, UK NUK improved demand from a combination on their core competencies.
Rapidly growing At constant currency rates, NUK sales of market pickup and new outsourcing.
manufacturing demand in Eastern Europe and increased 11.7% and operating profit grew The locations which are heavily automotive Asia will support the continued geographic 36.0%.
The sales growth was driven by related saw a decline in the second half which, expansion of the Group over the medium recovery of the IGT market and an increase based on industry forecasts, will continue term.
In addition, our Materials Testing Group in outsourced work.
All UK facilities are now into 2005.
The combination of price pressure is positioned to accelerate its growth by registered to the ISO 14001 environmental and increases in energy and employee benefit technology transfer, new outsourced standard.
We now have 9 facilities Nadcap UK costs continues to squeeze margins.
We are programmes and acquisitions.
accredited to meet mandates from several key now able to offer several high value added customers such as Rolls-Royce and Boeing.
services Low Pressure Carburising, Electron Beam Welding and Kolsterising of stainless steel to complement existing heat treating and brazing services thus helping to improve margins in the oversupplied North American market.
Bodycote annual report 2004 3 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 4 Chief Executives Review Materials Testing HIP The CoatAlloy process, which dramatically At constant currency rates, sales grew 11.2% At constant currency rates, sales increased improves the performance and life of furnace and operating profit grew 13.3%.
23.9% and operating profit was up 113.4%.
tubes in ethylene production plants, started up in the second half of 2004.
We experienced the By concentrating on the high value added The sales growth was driven by an usual teething problems associated with new services, cross border selling and an industry unexpectedly large increase in IGT demand processes.
Technical issues are now resolved specic approach we have been able to gain for new and replacement parts.
Aerospace with deliveries expected to commence in the market share at most of our laboratories.
demand picked up slightly in the second first half of 2005.
Sales increased in all geographies and margins half of the year and is expected to maintain were maintained or improved, with progress this trend throughout 2005.
The very high Our two Sherardizing facilities were in Canada being notable.
operational gearing, evident in HIP during consolidated into Wolverhampton, UK and the downturn in 2002 and 2003, rebounded is now fully functional.
This will improve The USA saw an improvement in demand for in our favour.
Although margins recovered capacity utilisation, technical support and aerospace, high end automotive and oil & gas from 13.0% to 22.5% we still have work profitability.
We have several opportunities testing but the gains were eroded by increased to do because the high investment in a HIP under development with customers in other people costs and price pressures.
We have facility require yet higher margins in order geographies of our network which could see won several significant outsourcing contracts.
to achieve an acceptable return on capital us install our first Sherardizing process In the Middle East we successfully integrated employed.
We continue to work on innovative capabilities outside the UK.
To enhance our the laboratories acquired from Carillion plc in new applications in the powder consolidation market coverage we are installing for start 2003 resulting in a 45.0% sales growth year sector.
The ALON ceramic project saw sales up in the first half of 2005 the Distek process, on year.
Operating margin in the region was increase 100% in 2004 but well behind a modication to Sherardizing, which allows somewhat reduced from last year as 2004 had original expectations.
Demand for Densal a thicker yet ductile layer to be diffused onto the tail end benets of a major construction treatment of aluminium castings showed the substrate.
This process will offer project that had run beyond the contractors excellent progress in the European automotive customers an environmentally friendly completion date.
All facilities are now ISO sector.
Two large HIP units which were out of alternative to galvanising.
17025 accredited: such standards are unique service for a large part of the year will return We invested in expanded plasma spray in the Gulf region and give us a competitive to service in the first half of 2005.
A used capacity in France to satisfy contracts with advantage as blue chip clients are increasingly HIP unit, previously acquired at low cost, suppliers to Airbus for plasma spray of insisting on these high standards to protect will be brought into service by the first part of titanium honeycomb parts and expect sales their major investments in construction 2006 in anticipation of continued increasing to start next year.
We are planning to transfer projects such as the Dubai airport expansion.
demand for IGT and recovering aerospace.
this technology to our UK facilities in 2005.
The Canadian Group won significant Surface Engineering ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC outsourced contracts from major aerospace, At constant currency rates and excluding PVD ALLIANCES AND DIVESTITURES automotive prime and first tier suppliers while and discontinued electroplating, sales grew Several modest acquisitions were made managing their costs well.
In support of 7.5% and operating profit improved 49.6%.
during the year, at a cost of 4.7m, with stringent new emission controls stipulated Anodising and Organics the emphasis being to expand our Materials by the Environmental Protection Agency We are focused on developing this business Testing operations.
Two oil and gas laboratories regulations due to come in force in 2007, by transferring know-how and processes were acquired in Canada with Hoogensen we have invested in two advanced Heavy between facilities and approaching customers Metallurgical Engineering Limited and an Duty Transient Cells for testing emission in a more organised manner to gain market environmental laboratory was added with compliance in the heavy diesel engine market.
share based on technical capability.
Clyde Analytical Limited of Greenock, Scotland.
This investment will start to generate revenue After the year end, four UK environmental near the end of 2005.
Diffusion Bonding and occupational hygiene sites were acquired Our K-Tech coatings continue to nd more with Ensecon Laboratories Limited, expanding UK and Europe had good sales growth based applications in the oil and gas, textile and our health science operations.
A controlling on IGT, oil and gas, Health Sciences, and steel rolling sectors.
Being an engineered interest was also taken in a civil engineering Environmental markets.
solutions business, we invest heavily in test laboratory in Qatar.
developing and proving application benets.
4 Bodycote annual report 2004 80267 56pp 3 15 05 10:53 AM Page 5 Haustrup Haerderi A S heat treating in The divestiture of electroplating has almost CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS Denmark strengthened our existing market been completed with the major loss making The New Year has started as expected.
position and enabled us to rationalise our facilities divested in the first half and the With IGT markets having recovered strongly facilities and provide access into the Northern remainder sold in the second half.
Sales and in 2004 we anticipate this sector will show German market.
losses before goodwill amortisation and more modest growth in 2005.
Aerospace exceptional items were 19.4m and 3.0m showed a slight increase in 2004 and we Bird Electron Beam Corporation in Connecticut, respectively compared to 26.0m and 6.8m anticipate the pace of growth will remain USA adds expanded know-how to our North in 2003.
A total 37.4m exceptional write steady throughout 2005.
Automotive, which American Group in a technology that has proven down has been taken of which 7.4m has has been forecast to turn down for some to be of value to key customers in Europe.
been charged in the 2004 accounts, the time, saw a slowdown in North America, balance of 30.0m having been provided in in particular in the second half of 2004, In addition, a significant strategic event was 2003.
During 2004 disposal proceeds net of and we anticipate demand in 2005 will remain the formation of the second largest global costs were 1.9m.
We have retained the 5 soft for that market.
The Tooling market has Physical Vapour Deposition PVD Group highly successful anodising and organic coating continued to decline due to manufacturing resulting from the sale of our 10 PVD businesses located in Sweden, Finland and of tools and dies being transferred to areas operations to IonBond for 25.1m net of Germany and will continue to develop this of lower cost where Bodycote does not costs, with Bodycote taking an initial 15% small specialised coatings group.
We believe currently have a significant presence.
equity position in the enlarged Group, which anodising has significant growth potential was increased to 20% in early 2005 at a total People are our number one resource.
due to the highly fragmented market and cost of 7.3m.
This move is in line with our We will continue to focus our management increased use of aluminium in manufacturing.
strategy of growing high value niche efforts on improving the productivity and businesses whilst managing the risk.
SAFETY, HEALTH AND effectiveness of our human resources.
The combined Group will trade under the ENVIRONMENTAL SHE Energy, our number two cost, is anticipated IonBond name capital B in IonBond being SHE has always been of major importance to remain relatively high but we expect to the red centred Bodycote B trademark and in our business and in 2004 we initiated an continue to pass most of these costs on to has pro forma sales in 2004 of 53.2m and enhanced Group wide measurement and our customers.
operates from 30 locations in 12 countries benchmarking system to help us better Overall we expect to continue our performance with more than 600 employees.
A long-term understand the reasons and root cause of recovery through our continuous self help cross selling agreement has been put in place accidents occurring within the Group, improve programmes, improving market demand and under which Bodycote will continue to offer awareness among the employees, change disciplined investments in capital and value IonBonds PVD services to our extensive behaviour and drive our accident rate towards enhancing acquisitions.
multinational client base and IonBond will our ultimate goal: zero.
The unfortunate loss market Bodycotes heat treatment, materials of life by two of our key team members at testing and hot isostatic pressing services.
the Hereford HIP operation underlines the The strategic alliance establishes the technical necessity of constant vigilance on the part skills and geographic scope to provide global of all of us.
Just as in every other area of our John D. Hubbard blue-chip manufacturers with critical solutions.
business, we work on continuously improving 1 March 2005 PVD is used in manufacturing to improve our understanding and consistent application mechanical, tribological and decorative of safety procedures throughout the Group.
properties of components beyond those We are funding a research project with the achievable by traditional methods and in an University of Southern California to advance environmentally safe manner.
customer synergies between PVD and heat treating will be enhanced through the additional coverage offered by this focused strategic alliance, which has made an encouraging start.
