Chief executives review On Monday 15th September last year, the day I joined Boots as chief executive, I didnt go straight to the office.
I spent most of the morning visiting three of our stores.
I knew that whatever challenges a retailer faces, the answers are most likely to be found in the stores.
Because, of course, thats where our customers are.
And, no less important, because nobody knows better whats working well, and what needs to work harder, than the people who serve our customers.
I learned a lot from talking to Boots people that morning, not least how passionately they want to see this company achieve its full potential.
Despite fierce competition, Im confident we will by harnessing that passion, and by acting upon the lessons we learn every day in each of our 1,400 stores.
Richard Baker 04 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 First impressions at all that this had a negative effect at store level, where many people felt that their When youre as big and famous as Boots, everyone has an opinion about you.
I certainly efforts werent being appreciated, or their needs met, by head office.
did, before I joined the company.
In Boots, I saw enormous strengths: a profitable business, Large-scale investment in our stores and the quality of our customer proposition is, of with a strong balance sheet, long established as a leading player and successful brand course, a big part of the solution.
No less important is the dramatic restructuring of our owner in growing markets.
central management function, which we have now almost completed.
Stripping away I also saw a company with an enviable relationship with its customers, based on the kind of unnecessary layers of management in head office has sent out the clearest possible signal trust and even affection that can only develop over quite a few decades.
Great locations, that we are serious about putting real decision-making power into the hands of those too, with a prime pitch on almost every high street, and real potential to exploit our closest to our customers, the people in our stores.
brands, through Boots Healthcare International.
A better Boots, one step at a time As an outsider, I was also aware of some negatives.
My impression, reinforced by hostile Just over eight months into the job, Im encouraged with the progress weve made across press coverage, was that Boots had lost a bit of confidence in itself: that the stores were all our businesses.
not as bright and customer-friendly as they needed to be: and that, organisationally, the But nobody is more aware than me of the challenges that lie ahead.
We face intense company was lacking sharpness.
competition, both from the might of the multiples and the quick-witted entrepreneurialism When I started here, my preconceptions were broadly confirmed.
But one thing really did of the independents.
Weve now had most of the quick wins that were available to us, surprise me.
Id expected the people to be good.
They werent good they were absolutely so from now on, well have to fight for every percentage point of improved performance.
In Boots people, I found an inherent level of customer care Ive never The good news, though, is that, as an organisation, were absolutely up for the battle.
encountered before: a sense of dedication and purpose genuinely comparable to that of, The people across our business, have a real desire for success.
Our strategy pushing say, a nurse or teacher.
And, as I mentioned above, I found they were hungry for change.
forward modernisation, yet reconnecting to the core values and successful origins of the Or, more accurately, I should say they were hungry for faster, more radical change.
brand is the only possible one.
And I have around me, a leadership team who share Picking up the pace of change my determination to do the right thing rather than the easy thing, and to build a better Before I joined Boots, programmes to transform the company had been underway.
To business one step at a time.
mention just one important example, the Lower Prices Youll Love initiative had already Weve identified our immediate priorities: areas where we can sharpen our performance begun to make a real impact in changing the perception that Boots couldnt compete in the short term.
But to complete a programme of change on the scale Ive described will on value for money.
But we werent moving forward fast enough.
It is, at least, a five-year plan: and a huge amount remains to be done, across all So my brief wasnt to reinvent the company from scratch, but to inject some urgency and our businesses.
impetus into the process of making Boots The Chemists BTC a more modern, competitive By starting to get the fundamentals of retailing right through careful investment, weve and efficient retail business, in order to deliver value for shareholders.
And every day now takes us a little closer to a modern, competitive and On the following two pages, Ill be explaining how each of those three key adjectives efficient company that can deliver sustainable profit growth and shareholder value well into translates into a better shopping experience for our customers.
First, though, Id like to the future.
tell you a little more about the broader organisational and cultural changes upon which Finally, Id like to say a huge thank you to all the people in our organisation for their everything else depends.
amazing hard work, flexibility and commitment through this period of enormous change.
Putting the stores back at the centre of the business All parts of the company have been effected with jobs changing and working patterns Weve made the stores the hero again.
For years, our core retail business was worked hard being turned upside down everywhere.
in order to fund new ventures, some of which performed disappointingly.
Theres no doubt Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 Modern, competitive and efficient.
Modern These days, when time is precious to almost all of us, nothing matters more to our customers than convenience.
They want to shop when it suits them.
So a vitally important development last year was our move towards flexible opening hours.
As with many other decisions, we left individual stores to drive this one for themselves, depending upon local demand.
And virtually all our stores have grabbed the opportunity to serve their customers better by extending their hours.
Many more stores now open on Sundays.
Once customers are through the door, of course, modern convenience means making shopping easy, quick and enjoyable for them.
Our massive investment in our stores is enabling us to do just that in all kinds of ways, from improved signage to advanced touch-screen tills.
Are queues a thing of the past at Boots?
Not yet, but were working on it.
06 Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Competitive Over the years, Boots has been able to Efficient Running a business efficiently is, very largely, command a price premium, justified by both the quality about attitude.
Its about instilling in people the sense that of our products and the expert customer care provided they can get things done right here, right now.
But, with value for money higher on the about removing the obstacles that stand in their way.
nations shopping list than ever, were 100% clear that Our radical management restructuring has played a very we need to compete much harder in this respect.
Last important part in that.
But, in the past, the single biggest year, we made real headway, reducing prices on around problem our stores faced in serving their customers 2,000 lines by an average of 18% and making it clear efficiently was a highly complex and slow moving supply to customers that value for money is here to stay at Boots.
So were rebuilding it from scratch, working Well-managed price investment enabled us to do this backwards from the shelf to the warehouse.
The aim is without serious damage to gross margins.
At the same to ensure that our stores always have exactly what our time, we further sharpened our competitive edge right customers want, when they want it.
And as our new across our customer offering from introducing innovative outsourcing agreement with Unipart has come into effect new Boots brand products, through making our over the last year, alongside the introduction of new stock merchandising work harder, to strengthening our core management processes, were getting closer to delivering pharmacy business.
And, of course, those extended on that every day.
opening hours mean that we can compete longer as well as harder.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 07
