10-11 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives review Our core UK business made an operating profit of 74 million for the 12 months to 31 December 2004 compared to the 73 million profit for the same period last year.
This represents a solid result considering the increased competition and rising interest rates that have impacted the credit card and personal loan markets and the uncertainty created by the potential sale of Prudentials stake in Egg.
We have seen strong net growth in unsecured lending of 1.4 billion in the 12 months taking total balances to 6.2 billion, up 30% on last year end.
The successful cross selling of personal loans into our credit card customer base has been complemented by the MasterCard proposition launched in July, which is proving popular and has now achieved almost 140 million in balances.
Revenues in the UK in 2004 of 497 million grew by almost 20% compared to the previous year, with non-interest income providing the majority of the increase.
Margins were under pressure throughout the year from both increased competition, especially in the first half, and rising base rates.
Against this background we were pleased that net interest income grew by almost 10% year on year.
Other income grew impressively, up 34% to 209 million, with a particularly strong showing in the final quarter.
Record loan disbursements and good card balance growth, with associated revenue from cross sales of insurances were the main factors in this result.
We are keeping tight control on costs and credit quality remains good with increased provision levels reecting the continuing growth in the unsecured lending portfolio, the stage in the life cycle of the card and loan books and the increasing proportion of personal loans in the book.
As we announced previously, France required a level of investment greater than Egg was prepared to take on a stand-alone basis and we therefore began negotiations with potential partners that may have led to a joint venture or similar transaction.
The search for a strategic partner was then superseded by Prudential announcing in January that it was considering proposals for its approximately 79% shareholding in Egg.
Subsequently, we were advised that no potential purchaser had the appetite for the investment required to deliver m the French business plan, and accordingly, we took the necessary steps to close our business in France.
We expect the total exit costs for France to 497 remain unchanged.
Revenues in the UK in 2004 % 20 Increase in revenues compared to 2003 Looking forward we are focused on our successful UK business 12-13 Egg plc Annual Report 2004 Chief Executives review Customer satisfaction has reached an all time high 96% of our customers claim More than satisfied they are happy to be with Egg.
In 2004 we worked hard to please customers more and now over half say they are very happy to be with Egg.
2004: 96% 2001: 86% Consistent with our stated intention to focus on our successful UK business, we have sold our investments business to Fidelity at a small loss, which will release approximately 20 million of capital back to our core banking business in 2005.
In addition, in conjunction with Prudential, we have put Funds Direct, our investment wrap platform business, up for sale and booked a 17 million impairment charge in the year end accounts against the full carrying value of the underlying assets.
During 2005, we intend to undertake a restructuring of share capital and reserves with a view to eliminating the Companys profit and loss deficit.
This restructuring % will allow the payment of dividends as and when sufficient distributable reserves have been generated and the Board considers it to be in the best interest of 34 the Company.
This process will require approval of a Special Resolution to be presented to the Companys shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Increase in the number of people who say Meeting and, following that, approval by the High Court.
Egg is a great place to work Looking forward we have a highly attractive unsecured lending portfolio with the opportunity to grow it further and deliver healthy returns.
In addition, we will be building on our strong relationship with our customers and the encouraging levels of their consideration to buy other products from Egg as evidenced by the strong growth in general insurance cross sales in the fourth quarter.
I would like to thank all Egg People for their hard work and dedication during a testing year.
We have continued to invest in our people and the environment in which they work and despite a year with periods of uncertainty, we have seen a resounding 34% increase in the number of our UK people who say that Egg is a great place to work.
Through the continued hard work and dedication of our people we have also expanded our high quality customer base.
Our continued emphasis on products and services that actively help customers to manage their money more effectively has resulted in customer satisfaction levels reaching an all time high of 96%.
As we go forward into 2005 we shall look to develop and broaden our product range to further meet the needs of our customers.
