Group chief executives review Dear Shareholder 2004 was a great year for BP.
In terms of We were wary of global developments, including ongoing overall performance, it was the best since the recent series conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism and public mistrust of of mergers and acquisitions.
And we found ourselves in one of the more High demand for energy and higher oil prices certainly volatile oil markets in history, driven by demand and anxiety contributed to our performance and led to our record financial about supply.
Against this backdrop, the team delivered results.
But our success in 2004 was based on more than record performance.
As the worlds energy market entered uncharted territory in We showed that we had the capability to deliver our strategy 2004, the subject of the future of energy supply took centre and to translate our scope and scale into competitive advantage.
Rising demand which matched the rate of global We demonstrated that we had the human talent to increase economic growth for the first time in 30 years produced both production, make new discoveries, gain new customers, short-term anxiety about fuel prices and long-term concern enhance safety and grow our reputation.
Our global workforce about supply.
Had there been a fundamental shift in the oil worked as a seamless team and I thank every one of them.
What else could disrupt As you read this Annual Report and follow our efforts to supply?
Were companies investing enough to meet demand?
create value, it may be helpful to understand how we achieve In this uncertain climate, a little history can be reassuring.
Clearly, questions over security of supplies have driven oil prices upwards.
But, amid all the market disruptions of the past Our purpose and strategy We begin with our purpose as a few years, supply has never fallen short of demand.
Increased group to provide better goods and services in the form investment by the private sector has led to production gains of light, heat, power and mobility to increasing numbers of of more than 15% a year during the last five years.
To succeed, we do this in a way that is profitable, production in 2004 rose at the fourth-highest rate in history.
This is reflected in value generated for shareholders.
Choosing our goals We execute our strategy against the To deliver profitable performance, we provide high-quality context of the time.
We make plans to achieve three targets: products in a competitive way maximizing revenues and To underpin growth by a focus on performance, particularly minimizing costs.
on cash returns, investing at a rate appropriate for long-term To deliver sustainable performance, we also provide these growth.
products in a sustainable way attracting the best people, To increase dividends.
accessing large-scale oil and gas resources, building markets To return to shareholders, by way of share buybacks, in which we enjoy customers trust while doing business in a 100% of free cash flow generated above what is needed mutually advantageous way that brings benefits to everyone for investment and dividends: this generally occurs, all concerned customers, communities, governments, suppliers, other things being appropriate, when the price of oil citizens and so generates repeat business.
To deliver consistent performance, we invest enough to These plans are executed by applying resources and deliver long-term growth, while balancing this with returns capabilities across the organization.
Too fast a growth rate is unsustainable, In last years report, I wrote that organizational alignment while too slow a rate sacrifices competitive advantage.
Our and operational excellence would shape our future as a group analysis gives us confidence that an investment level of around and that we had developed a new management framework $14 billion is right for 2005 and 2006, taking into account the to harness the energy and imagination of our people.
In 2004, present level of the dollar and recent sector-specific inflation.
we took further steps to embed these common values and To achieve our purpose, we have a strategy.
We make processes, clarifying individual accountability.
In 2005, choices about the assets and markets where we operate.
we will issue a new code of conduct to ensure that each Our business strategy remains unchanged.
In Exploration individual in BP continues to exhibit high and consistent and Production, we seek out long-term assets the largest, standards of ethical behaviour.
low-cost, new hydrocarbon deposits while managing the We continue to innovate and apply leading-edge technology.
In our customer-facing businesses, For example, our new Thunder Horse platform in the we look to attract more and more customers through improved deepwater Gulf of Mexico breaks many records as the largest quality of products and service.
Our challenge is to add new floating facility and will operate in the deepest water, with the sources of cash flow whose cash returns are at least as good harshest reservoir pressure and temperature regime.
We also continue to strengthen the development opportunities that we offer to our people.
For example, we have the Projects 2004 in context As I wrote last year, we started 2004 with Academy, in which we partner with the Massachusetts greater scale, common values and a clear strategy.
But nothing Institute of Technology to help people gain best-in-class project was a given.
We were cautious about our ability to execute management skills.
whether our people operating in 100 countries could effectively We measure the views of our staff through a People translate our worldwide assets into world-class performance.
In 2004, this showed a significant rise in 6
