Group Chief Executives Review We have pushed hard over recent years to transform this Group from what it was to what it is today.
First, let me record my gratitude for the wise counsel and unswerving support that I have received from David Newbigging.
David was appointed Chairman a year after my appointment in 1997 as Group Chief Executive, so for me it has been a long and valued partnership and one from which I have learned a great deal.
David brought a huge amount of understanding and wisdom to our Board, and on behalf of my fellow directors and all my colleagues, I offer our sincere thanks and send our very best wishes to David for the future.
I welcome Adrian Montague as Chairman and very much look forward to working with him on the next chapter of development of the Friends Provident Group.
Group Chief Executive Keith Satchell with his Senior Executive Team: Philip Moore, Ben Gunn, Howard Carter and Brian Sweetland.
6 Friends Provident Industry overview Asset Management Life and Pensions Despite a healthy 14% return from the FTSE All Following two years of contraction, market data Share Index during 2004, statistics published by provided by the Association of British Insurers ABI the Investment Management Association reect a shows there was a 3% upturn in the life and difficult year for UK retail funds sales.
This increase was wide gross retail funds sales were 8% higher in 2004 aided by signs of a renewed confidence in the than 2003, net sales were some 42% lower as stockmarket, with Life single premium investment existing investors redeemed their investments.
The ABI data also reveals The picture was particularly challenging for sales of that distributors continue to place a high proportion Individual Savings Accounts ISAs where industryof business with the top ten providers.
In 2004, wide gross sales were at year on year and net sales these top ten companies, which include Friends went into negative territory for the first time since Provident, attracted 71% of all UK life and pensions ISAs were introduced in 1999. new business, compared with 66% in 2001, rising We believe there are a number of factors contributing to 70% in 2002 and 72% in 2003.
This reects the to this lack of confidence from retail investors.
These range of services and levels of security that distributors include concerns about the housing market, high oil increasingly seek, and that generally are only found in prices, events in Iraq and the breakdown of trust in the larger, more nancially secure, providers.
Against this difficult Consolidation in the IFA community has continued backdrop, survey work conducted for F&C suggests throughout 2004, leading to the emergence of fewer, that ISA sales have also suffered from a perception more powerful distributors.
We believe the size and that the Government has not been fully committed shape of UK distribution will continue to evolve over to this product because of the abolition of tax credits the next couple of years, as the impact of the current on equity dividends within ISAs.
regulatory changes is felt, with distributors now During 2004 retail investors showed a strong having the option to tie to a number of providers.
preference for income generating products, including Market conditions remain tough, and the pressure corporate bond funds, equity income funds and to reduce costs and improve capital efficiency is commercial property.
There were relatively few fund a constant.
Most product providers are active in launches in the UK, with the exception of property seeking to secure tied distribution agreements with investments, which appealed to investors because adviser organisations, with technology increasingly of their yield characteristics.
holding the key to controlling costs and delivering efficiencies for both parties, while enhancing service Regulatory overview to customers.
A number of proposed regulatory changes took Press coverage of the perceived pensions crisis effect in 2004, the most significant being the has been building throughout 2004 and now has ending of polarisation and the introduction of a momentum which cannot be ignored.
has alluded to the gap between actual and required Under the polarisation rules introduced in 1988, savings, highlighted by the Adair Turner Pensions financial advisers were either independent or tied Commission report and the ABIs Pensions and to one company.
The new depolarised world, Savings Index.
Both reports point to around 12 million effective from 1 December 2004, has introduced people not saving enough to ensure adequate the concept of multi-ties whereby tied advisers income in their old age.
In efforts to address this, the can offer the products of more than one provider Government has embarked on a number of initiatives, company.
A number of adviser organisations have particularly the introduction of the stakeholder already opted for the multi-tie approach and we product suite, the increase to the stakeholder charge believe more will follow.
Friends Provident has been cap and measures to simplify pensions.
However, working closely with major distributors throughout a  report released in 2004 to ensure we are suitably prepared to meet December 2004 shares our view that much more their changing requirements and to be considered needs to be done, principally by Government, to as serious contenders for panel positions.
The task force behind the December report, led by Sir Peter Davis, noted The lending, administration, advising and arranging that three-quarters of stakeholder schemes set up of mortgages became regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA effective from October by employers still have no members.
Conversely, where employers contribute to an occupational 2004.
Protection and general insurances became FSA regulated from January 2005.
We support pension scheme, three-quarters of their workforce join the scheme.
It remains questionable whether this extension of regulation and see it as a further step forward in increasing the professionalism pension provision, beyond State benets, can remain entirely voluntary unless there is a more radical and reputation of the industry.
In the light of these changes, we have repositioned our Appointed approach to incentives and creation of demand.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Group Chief Executives Review continued Representatives channel to focus exclusively on Delivering on our strategy mortgage and protection business in the future.
The six strands of our strategy can be summarised as: The long-awaited announcement of the stakeholder Grow life and pensions market share in a focused charge cap being increased from the proposed 1% and profitable manner to 1.5% for the first ten years of the products life Become one of the top pension providers, was made in June 2004.
Associated with the charge emphasising the Group market cap, a suite of stakeholder products coupled with Apply technology and e-commerce to enhance a straightforward advice process will be launched in distribution, improve service and reduce costs April 2005.
Although supportive of the Governments Develop particularly our links with the IFA community, well-meaning intentions, we remain sceptical as to while remaining a multi-channel operator whether distributors can create a business model that adequately rewards their efforts and manages Develop our asset management business into one of the leaders in its eld their risks.
We continue to evaluate any opportunities from our own perspective.
Grow organically and pursue acquisitions, where the t is right The FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF initiative was launched as another aid to help consumers gain a better understanding of financial services have undertaken four significant acquisitions and to enhance consumer confidence in the life and pensions industry.
Our business is built on to complement our organic growth.
helping our customers through the complexities of financial services: therefore we fully support this Mergers and acquisitions As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement, since initiative.
We have incorporated TCF into our corporate strategy and are ensuring that all areas our last Annual Report we have merged our asset management business with F&C, adopting the F&C of our business continue to assess their processes and procedures to best serve the interests of all branding, and acquired Luxembourg-based Lombard International Assurance S. A. our stakeholders.
Looking further ahead to April 2006, the Government F&C Asset Management plc plans to simplify the tax regimes relating to pensions, The opportunity to enter into the merger with F&C making them easier for consumers to understand was facilitated by virtue of our longstanding afliation with Eureko, the former owners of F&C.
To achieve and cheaper for both pension providers and the Inland Revenue to administer.
We welcome any our 51% controlling interest in F&C, we paid Eureko 383 million in a combination of cash and Friends move to make pensions more straightforward, but believe that this in itself will still be insufficient to Provident shares.
This price allowed to some extent for the premium paid to reect the prospective stimulate consumers to save for their futures.
synergies, although this premium was virtually nullified through the rise in the value of the 100 Strategy million shares we owned in ISIS.
These shares were Although the financial services industry has been suspended at 199 pence per share at the time the the subject of unprecedented levels of review and proposed merger was announced, and have traded reorganisation over recent years, the strategy that at around 230-255 pence since completion of the we developed long before our demutualisation, transaction in October 2004. and subsequently published in 2001, at the time of our otation, continues to prove itself right for The merger of ISIS and F&C has transformed our our business.
asset management business from a predominantly UK-focused to a pan-European company of real There can be little argument that we continue to stature, managing funds of 125 billion at the close deliver strongly against these strategic aims.
It has effectively rebalanced the Friends 2001, the year of our otation, our share of the UK Provident Group and will lift the contribution of the life and pensions market has grown 27%, with an asset management business to consolidated Group increasing focus on the more profitable product lines: profits substantially.
group pensions now represents our biggest market: more than half of all new UK life and pensions The two previous businesses were a compelling business is currently transacted online using systems strategic t. The merger has created a profitable which have virtually swept the board for awards in European-focused asset management group that 2004: some 69% of new UK life and pensions not only has scale but is also considerably more business is now through intermediaries and further diverse by skills, products, client type, geography important Independent Financial Adviser IFA and revenues than either of the two previous partnerships have been established: F&C stands as entities.
Our rationale is to create a platform which one of the top five asset management companies in is scalable for future organic growth: to enhance the UK and one of the largest in Europe, and we investment performance through increased 8 Friends Provident resources: to achieve cost synergies in an industry There can be little where there are many inefficiencies: and to further diversify the business and widen the range of argument that we products we offer to our clients.
The business model is a strong one which is able to generate an operating margin ahead of most of our competitors.
continue to deliver Over the medium term, Friends Providents earnings strongly against our will benefit from the additional revenue opportunities expected to arise from the greater strength of the strategic aims.
enlarged asset management business, which is also likely to benefit our life and pensions customers.
Asset management is a cash generative business with low capital requirements, and therefore the merger represents effective deployment of the Groups capital.
Lombard International Assurance S. A. Lombard Just as the merger with F&C has transformed our asset management business, so the acquisition of Lombard has transformed our international crossborder operations, in terms of its scale and its geographical reach.
The purchase price is geared to the performance of Lombard up until the end of 2006 and is structured to provide appropriate incentive for Lombards management team to continue pursuing the strong growth that has characterised its past performance.
An initial instalment of c265 million was paid on 11 January 2005, the date the acquisition was completed, and further instalments will be paid in April of 2005, 2006 and 2007, based on Lombards performance over the previous calendar year in terms of new business profits and underlying embedded value.
Based on Lombards excellent performance over 2004, the April 2005 instalment is likely to be the contract cap of c90 million.
Friends Provident holds the option for paying the purchase price either in cash or, more likely, in Friends Provident shares.
The initial instalment was met by the issue of 113 million shares in Friends Provident.
Share price performance During 2004, Friends Providents Total Shareholder Return TSR, which takes account of growth in the share price and the payment of dividends, was 21.33% compared with 23.27% for the FTSE Life Assurance sector and 11.25% for the FTSE100 Index of leading shares.
Our performance is all the more creditable when set against the issue of 265 million new shares during the year relating to the nancing of the F&C merger, and the prospective issue of shares in respect of the Lombard acquisition, which, in effect, represented a 22% dilution of shareholdings.
Our people I never cease to be proud of our people.
We have pushed hard over recent years to transform this Group from what it was to what it is today.
Such fast-paced growth presents enormous challenges Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9 Group Chief Executives Review continued and our staff have never failed to rise to them.
increasingly important to us and will now be served The many awards we have won in 2004 are from two hubs, the Luxembourg-based Lombard a reection of their determination not to settle company working alongside the Isle of Man operation, enabling us to provide wider access to the financial for the ordinary but to reach ever higher.
In our 2003 Annual Report, I stated their efforts, this Group has achieved so much that our medium-term target was for at least 20% of and I know will achieve much more yet the our new business to come from outside the UK and potential is there and I know our people will take the acquisition of Lombard will more than meet this every opportunity to continue the Friends Provident target.
In fact, we expect over 35% of our new success story, whether under the banner of business to come from outside the UK in 2005.
Friends Provident or F&C or, in 2005 and beyond, Lombard.
On behalf of the Board, I thank them.
This acquisition will also have a positive impact on the Groups value of new business and new Outlook business margins, and will further diversify our Since our stock market listing in 2001, and in earnings through a business that is not capital testing circumstances, we have successfully intensive, as single premium business without transformed the Group.
It is now not only of financial guarantees requires comparatively low considerably greater scale but also more diverse, capital backing.
The transaction is expected to more profitable, more customer-focused, and enhance the Groups Achieved Operating Earnings more nancially robust.
The very significant per share by a high single digit percentage.
For foundations laid over the past two years will German tax change reasons, the very high volumes support accelerated profitable growth over the of new business from Germany experienced by next two years and beyond.
Lombard in 2004 will not be repeated this year.
However, we expect overall new business production UK Life and Pensions to continue to expand as we pursue the opportunities The UK market remains one of considerable for growth in other areas of Europe and in selected potential, where the business environment demands markets in Asia and South America.
that providers demonstrate to customers positive points of differentiation.
Service is one of our points F&C Asset Management of differentiation and we remain committed to The key drivers of F&Cs long-term success will be delivering a service experience unrivalled in our the ability to generate organic growth in profitable industry and to drawing more customers, through lines of activity.
A proposition with strong investment the attraction of products, processes and service performance is central to our ability to deliver this.
designed to meet their needs.
Allied with an efficient, scalable operating model, We have developed product ranges that are these are the basic elements of a successful asset management business.
We have created an efficient innovative and which maximise the advantages afforded by our leading-edge application of business structure that centralises most of the fund management activities and complements this with technology, particularly in the protection and group pensions markets.
We believe the product streams local client servicing and sales support.
Where we we focus on protection, pensions and investments do have local fund management, it is because of remain the right ones for continued profitable a particular requirement to maintain a centre of growth, although the latter is more dependent on excellence in that region.
It does not lead to external economic factors.
This allows F&C to gain economies of scale, but still meet the needs of clients in various The relationships we have developed with distributors European centres.
are close and strong, and have enabled us to develop systems and administrative processes of mutual A movement into higher fee business lines will result benefit.
As a consequence, we have already in increased profitability providing it does not require secured places on most of the early multi-tie a more than commensurate increase in costs.
Given panel announcements and expect more to follow, the historic client base of the business with a high demonstrating our ability to succeed in this proportion of insurance assets F&C has lower competitive environment.
Although the time average fees than most of its competitors.
However, between signing such agreements and any impact there has been a focus on raising average fee rates on new business volumes normally spans several and this will continue.
months, we believe our approach is securing strong A key milestone in the merger is the creation of and profitable distribution for future years.
This an integrated F&C fund range.
This began with the should deliver outperformance of the market this re-branding of the ISIS funds within weeks of the year and accelerating market share growth in merger completing.
The combined fund range has 2006 and beyond.
now been reviewed and rationalisation proposals International Life and Pensions issued that, subject to investor approval, are on The International cross-border market will become target to complete by end of April 2005.
Because ISIS 10 Friends Provident had already concluded a major fund rationalisation exercise in August 2003, this current project has not required a programme of streamlining on the same scale.
Nevertheless, the proposals will see a range of 53 funds reduced to 47, of which 9 will only be marketed to institutional clients.
All of the OEIC funds will be registered under UCITS 3, enabling them to be marketed across Europe.
A further aspect of the exercise is that by moving the range to a single administration platform, with International Financial Data Services, significant costs savings will be achieved.
During the remainder of 2005 the integration of information technology systems remains a key priority.
On past experience, this usually takes around 12 months to complete.
Initially work has focused on ensuring that the IT infrastructure is sufciently robust to meet both the needs of the enlarged business and our growth ambitions.
The next phase is to introduce business systems that enhance the ability of the fund managers and others to work to maximum effectiveness.
The approach is to select the best available system from each of the two merged entities.
Focus is now on the delivery of good investment performance and innovative product solutions so that significant organic growth can be achieved, particularly in the higher margin areas.
This means investing in our capabilities whilst maintaining our track record for efficient business management.
Summary Overall, 2004 was a year in which we took great steps forward, increasing our presence signicantly in asset management and international life business.
This, coupled with the strong fundamentals of our UK life and pensions business, has reshaped our Group for the benefit of customers and shareholders, and we look forward with real confidence.
Keith Satchell Group Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11
