Group Chief Executive Officers Review This has been another year of considerable progress at ICAP.
We have again outpaced our competitors and significantly increased our share of the interdealer broking market, our turnover and profit.
This has been reflected in the rise of the ICAP share price during the year by 49% and a cumulative appreciation, since the September 1999 creation of ICAP, of 444%.
MARKET SHARE 2004 % 27.2 MARKET SHARE 2003 % 24.2 Without doubt the most significant event Our strategy going forward remains the for the Group this past year was the same as we have espoused for several completion in May 2003 of the purchase years with the important exception that of BrokerTec.
This landmark event, after we now have a powerful electronic arm nearly two years of negotiations with the which perfectly complements our long owners, has transformed ICAP overnight established market leading voice business.
from a modest operator in electronic broking of fixed income securities into the clear We intend to expand further our share of global leader.
the electronic and voice markets by a combination of acquisition and organic Our timing could not have been more growth.
We anticipate that the electronic propitious as the pace of electronic division is likely to grow more rapidly than broking has accelerated even further since the voice divisions in volume and profit then and we now transact over $300 billion terms as more products are traded per day yes, per day on the BrokerTec electronically and we benefit from the platform.
This is some 60% higher than major operating leverage of electronic BrokerTec was transacting only a year ago broking.
We believe that by pursuing this and the ongoing rapid adoption of electronic strategy it is possible to increase our broking in the fixed income universe suggests global market share of industry revenues to me that these high growth rates are from a current estimated 27%.
BrokerTec has performed ahead over time will also improve from the of our best expectations.
economies of scale generated by our electronic capabilities.
It is no exaggeration to observe that ICAP is now not only the clear global leader in Industry volumes have been robust during wholesale voice broking, as we have been most of the financial year with derivatives for many years, but also the leader in and fixed income volumes both posting electronic broking.
This is a unique critical sharp increases.
The threat of deflation combination as our three largest voice that had been of some concern to us a competitors have no effective electronic year ago, threatening to lead to low and broking capability and our electronic stable interest rates, has now completely competitors have little or no voice capability.
With increasing G7 deficits and ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 08 MICHAEL SPENCER YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2004 YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003 higher economic growth, I remain optimistic merger.
I am delighted, however, this year ICAP Executive Team that we have another year of reasonable that our management resources have Group Chief Operating Officer volatility and rising volumes ahead of us.
been strengthened by the appointment David Gelber The rapidly expanding hedge fund industry of Jay Spencer as Global Chief Information has also contributed significantly to increased Officer, Humphrey Percy as global head of Group Finance Director derivative and fixed income trading.
ICAP futures and Garry Jones and David Rutter Jim Pettigrew is very well positioned to capture more as heads of electronic broking in Europe Chief Operating Officer Americas than our previous share of this business.
Steve McDermott Americas We are also embarking upon building Outlook Ron Purpora and Doug Rhoten a global futures broking business.
We have There was an upturn in market sentiment in small existing futures activities in some April regarding the US economic outlook Europe & Africa centres but we now intend to build a and the prospect for further policy tightening, George MacDonald, David Casterton, global capability, focusing particularly on which has lifted the US yield curve and Paul McMenemy and Gary Smith North America and Europe.
The overlap in the euro curve has followed in its wake.
Asia Pacific terms of clients and products as well as The likelihood of a further global economic Bryan Massey and Mark Webster convergence between OTC products and upswing is improving and this is expected Electronic Broking futures exchanges drives us inexorably in to apply continued upward pressure on Garry Jones and David Rutter this direction.
Within a few years I expect changes in interest rate expectations.
As a that futures will make a material contribution result we anticipate that industry activity Futures to our overall profit.
levels will continue to grow steadily and Humphrey Percy ICAP will continue to benefit from its strong Global Chief Information Officer Further strategic and structural changes position in and broad coverage of the Jay Spencer are in our opinion likely to take place in our wholesale markets in fixed income securities Information Services industry within the next year or so.
John Nixon management team is well prepared and we will take advantage of the opportunities 2003 2004 was a good year for ICAP: we that will add shareholder value.
look forward to another successful year.
I have been fortunate for many years to work with an exceptional and committed Michael Spencer management team: broadly the same Group Chief Executive Officer group has led ICAP since the 1999 ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 09
