Review by the chief executive officer and managing director - Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor For more details on the group's performance in the period Overview of performance under review, see pages 9 to 29.
On balance, 2003 proved to be a more favourable operating environment than was anticipated at the beginning of the Commendable turnaround in the UK financial year.
Economic growth was better in most major performance economies, equity markets rose, and business confidence increased, improving market sentiment in general.
The more The UK businesses recorded an operating profit before favourable market environment, together with successful exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill of 38.7 rationalisation and restructuring of the group's operations in million, an increase of 71.7% over the previous financial year.
the previous year, benefited Investec, with better The strong results from the Private Banking and Treasury performance from most business areas.
and Specialised Finance divisions were supported by a solid performance from Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite.
Profits were boosted by stronger performance from the Furthermore, the Investment Banking activities benefited group's operations in the UK and Australia, and the from greater corporate activity and a streamlined cost base elimination of losses from the US operations.
The UK but without the benefit of any significant private equity business experienced a significant turnaround in realisations.
performance due to the result of robust result from Private Banking and Treasury and Specialised Finance.
These factors were offset to some extent by a weaker performance from Mixed performances from the Southern the South African Treasury and Specialised Finance division African businesses and a decline in income from the South African life assurance activities.
The Southern African businesses posted an operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill of The salient financial features of the year under 77.4 million, representing an increase of 11.4%.
The review include: operations benefited from the strength of the Rand and a Operating profit of the group's operations before solid performance from the Investment Banking and Private exceptional items and goodwill amortisation increased Banking divisions.
This strong performance was offset by a 54.1% - from 85.8 million to 132.1 million.
poor performance from the Treasury and Specialised Finance Investec plc and its subsidiaries accounted for 41.4% division and a decline in the earnings of the group's 2003: 19.0% of Investec's operating profit before Assurance Activities and Central Funding division.
exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill.
The ratio of total operating expenses to total operating income decreased from 80.0% to 72.7%.
Solid performance from the Australian Investec Bank UK Limited successfully placed a businesses 200 million, 12-year subordinated note in the UK market to a diversified range of investors.
The Australian operating profit before exceptional items and Investec Bank Limited issued R1.5 billion 127.5 million amortisation of goodwill increased by 62.5% to 9.6 million, in non-cumulative, non-redeemable and nonas a result of favourable market conditions.
The business participating preference shares.
experienced solid activity levels and made good progress in The operational effective tax rate of the group all its core activities.
In October 2003, Investec Bank excluding the tax effect on exceptional items increased Australia received a favourable long-term deposit and from 6.3% to 21.1%.
007 Annual Report 2004 issuer rating of Baa2 from Moody's, enabling the group to Development Trust was created to augment these enhance its funding base.
transactions, effectively leading to communities participating in 60% of the 25.1% shareholding the BEE consortium acquired in Investec Limited.
In November 2003, the Israel benefits from a better economic and transaction was concluded, with the group issuing 5.6 million financial environment new shares 46.0 million.
The Israeli operation benefited from cost cutting initiatives Investec believes that BEE, if properly implemented, is critical undertaken in the previous period and a stronger economic to economic and social transformation in South Africa and and financial environment.
Despite performance reported in the cornerstone for longer-term sustainable development.
nominal terms being weakened by negative inflation, Investec's proactive approach to BEE - which focuses on operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation ingraining this commitment into the group's culture and of goodwill increased by 69.3% to 5.9 million.
Assets under values, and provides a source of competitive business management increased by 104% to NIS20.2 billion advantage - positions the group as a leader in developing 2.4 billion, from NIS9.9 billion 1.3 billion.
Investec Bank innovative and effective solutions to the challenges facing the Israel continues to grow its market share in the mutual sector in South Africa.
funds custody business and is now taking on new business from two additional independent fund managers.
Subsequent to the year end the group sold its stake in Investec Bank Sustainable development - the Investec Israel to First International Bank of Israel.
Further details way are provided on page 148.
As an international group, Investec recognises that sustainability is more than just BEE and also involves Improved performance from the US managing a number of direct and indirect social and natural business environmental impacts.
Investec's journey to sustainability is an integral part of its business strategy and critical to its The heavily reduced ongoing operations in the US, consisting future success.
of several fixed income trading operations and a small equities trading desk supporting Investec Bank Israel 's In keeping with the Investec entrepreneurial spirit, the clients, posted a modest operating profit before exceptional group's sustainability efforts focus on issues that are most items and amortisation of goodwill of 0.4 million.
The relevant to the business of a specialist bank.
"The group is fundamental restructuring of the US business was completed committed to making a material contribution to its business, and, with the exception of run-off related activities, all other moving beyond a ""tick-the-box"" approach to doing it the businesses in Investec USA and Investec Inc. ceased ""Investec way""."
This means being innovative, relevant, practical operating as of 31 May 2003. and having due regard for the values and culture of the organisation.
Investec recognised for empowerment and In the past year, the group committed to sustainable transformation initiatives development as a strategic intention and began a groupwide internal engagement process, to ensure each division Over the past few years, Investec has been particularly understands the implications of sustainable development.
active in promoting black economic empowerment BEE This process of internal debate and interaction is essential within the financial services sector, having been at the for embedding the concept of sustainability throughout the forefront of several empowerment initiatives before BEE organisation, and for ensuring that the group identifies and became a legislative prerequisite.
Investec played an proactively addresses key opportunities and risks within each important role in the development of the Financial Sector division.
Investec is confident that this objective will be Charter, which seeks to promote BEE in the South African reached.
financial services sector and was released in October 2003.
Of further significance, in April 2004, Investec was Looking to the year ahead, the group faces a number of recognised for its BEE and transformation initiatives in South exciting challenges as the process of translating the concept Africa, receiving the BusinessMap Foundation's Most of sustainability into operational reality continues.
During the Progressive Established Company of the Year award.
coming year, Investec will be undertaking various initiatives to raise employee awareness and understanding of During the year, Investec concluded a significant deal with sustainability, and to further embed sustainability principles two empowerment companies - Tiso Group and Peu into the group's operations at all levels.
Investment Group - that will greatly enhance the participation of BEE in the South African market.
The transaction with Tiso and Peu is unique in that it introduces Strategic direction black shareholders at a holding company level, with 25.1% of Investec Limited now owned by Tiso, Peu, a development During the 2003 financial year, a comprehensive worldwide trust and an employee trust.
To ensure that broad-based exercise was undertaken in which every employee had an empowerment takes place, the Entrepreneurship opportunity to comment on the values of the organisation, the extent to which they are or are not lived, and changes effective decision-making and corporate governance which they would recommend.
This input of employees was enabled the group to produce commendable results.
considered at an international Investec management conference in April 2004.
Furthermore, progress was made We welcome Fani Titi, Chief Executive Officer of the Tiso in crystallising the group's strategic direction and resulted in Group, to the board of directors and look forward to the the revision of the group's mission statement, as follows: skilled insight that his knowledge and experience will bring Investec strives to be a distinctive specialist banking group to the group.
Fani was appointed to the boards of Investec driven by commitment to our core philosophies and values.
Limited and Investec plc as a non-executive director in January 2004.
In considering the concept of being distinctive, management recognised that the following questions need continual On a sad note, we mourn the death of John Abell, a nonconsideration: executive director on the board of directors of Investec plc and Investec Limited, on 26 May 2004.
How does the group build and retain distinctive human to the Investec board in 1993 and his contribution - both talent?
professional and personal - will be deeply missed.
How can integrity and morality in business practices act as a source of distinction?
Lastly, we would like to extend our gratitude to all our 3.
What are the values that will make Investec truly stakeholders for their dedication and commitment: our distinctive?
shareholders, for their consistent support: and our clients, for 4.
What will define success and delivery of distinctive depending on us to be their trusted advisors and more results?
importantly, for choosing us to be their partners.
Consequently, the group commenced a process to drive its mission to all areas of its operations and to clearly articulate Outlook for 2004 its strategic direction.
This direction - which will centre on the need to be distinctive - incorporates renewed client The past few years have been challenging for the financial focus, employees who are recognised and rewarded for their services industry, with international economic events and achievements, intensified cooperation and collaboration weak stock market conditions weighing heavily on between divisions, the fostering of an entrepreneurial performance.
Notwithstanding this, the operational health of environment and renewed efforts among all Investec's the group's activities is sound, with vigilant management of people to actively live the values.
costs and significant measures taken to address the nonperforming elements of the business.
Ongoing cost discipline The group continues to concentrate on building a full will remain a priority and the group is committed to service specialist bank in South Africa and a niche specialist maintaining rigorous cost reduction.
bank in the UK and other countries.
This focus is based on a recognition that Investec cannot compete on all fronts and Looking ahead to 2004, while uncertainties remain, has to allocate resources where it can achieve meaningful conditions appear to be improving and investors are growth and return on equity.
Management has also becoming increasingly optimistic.
In particular, the recent recognised that Investec needs to drive its return on equity announcement that South Africa is to host the 2010 World to more than 20% and reduce its operating leverage, by Cup Soccer should result in positive economic activity and lowering its cost to income ratio to 65%.
This requires create a conducive environment for the group's ongoing assessment of activities that do not meet these infrastructural finance activities.
Higher and more stable targets.
In the past few years, Investec has demonstrated an equity markets are creating a more positive environment for ability to take tough decisions and to align the group to Investec's activities in the UK and Australia.
Management is committed to dealing with situations that inhibit the achievement of the The group strives to continue to build distinctive businesses above targets.
in its core areas of operation, focusing on where it can compete effectively.
By maintaining concentration on the fundamentals of growing earnings, improving efficiency and Acknowledgements maintaining credit quality, Investec is confident that it can continue to build a sustainable business model that will Investec's performance in the past year reflects the collective deliver value to shareholders.
We would like to thank all employees for their persistent energy and dedicated efforts, which remain undiminished and made a vital contribution towards the group's efforts.
We would also like to extend our sincerest appreciation to Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor the Chairman and board of directors for their unwavering Chief Executive Officer Managing Director support and disciplined leadership, which are vital for
