chief executives review Burren intends to continue its focus on a In Egypt, a PSC covering the 4,300 sq km East selected number of frontier regions, namely Kanayis exploration block in the Western Desert the Caspian region, West Africa, North Africa was signed in September 2004 and an ofce and the Indian subcontinent, with a view to in Cairo has now been established.
Since the achieving a balanced portfolio of development end of the year Burren has been awarded two and exploration opportunities in these markets.
further exploration blocks, North Lagia 1,457 sq km onshore in the northern Gulf of Suez A detailed summary of the years performance basin and North Hurghada Marine 242 sq km, by country is contained in the Review of shallow offshore in the southern Gulf of Suez.
Operations, but the main achievements Negotiations are under way with a view to are summarised below.
concluding PSCs for these blocks during this year.
Key achievements during the year In Turkmenistan we drilled 10 development Since the year-end we have established wells on the Burun eld, of which seven were a presence in a fourth country, India, via shallow wells drilled using one of our own the acquisition of 26% interest in Hindustan Finian OSullivan truck-mounted workover rigs.
These latter wells Oil Exploration Company HOEC, Indias Chief Executive Officer have proved particularly economic, producing only publicly quoted E&P company outside an average of 350 bopd and paying back the state-controlled sector.
Options to purchase in under a month at US$35 Brent.
As a result additional shares and an open offer to all During 2004 Burren has made of this drilling and the ongoing workover shareholders of HOEC will enable Burren substantial strides forward.
We programme on the existing well stock, average to acquire up to a 51% equity interest in have continued the development production net to Burren increased by 37% the company.
We view this new investment to 9,300 bopd 2003: 6,770 bopd.
A 540 as having material upside potential.
of our existing assets, laid sq km 3D seismic grid over the Nebit Dag down the foundations for the PSA area outside the Burun eld was acquired Plans and objectives for 2005 and processed during the year.
The result will The major challenges for 2005 will be continued future growth of the enable us to select locations for exploration to make tangible progress with our newly business, and have diversied drilling in 2005. acquired assets in Egypt and India, and to drill successful exploration wells in our asset base into new In Congo, 17 appraisal and development wells Turkmenistan and Congo.
We willl continue areas in order to reduce the were completed on the MBoundi eld and one the rapid development of our existing assets on the Kouakouala eld.
Average production with the aim of accelerating production to reap concentration of country risk.
net to Burren increased to 4,900 bopd, over the benets of another year of high oil prices.
After more than 30 wells drilled in total to date the subsurface aerial extent of the MBoundi eld has still not been established and to this end a 3D seismic survey over areas totalling 230 sq km to the north and south of the eld was recently completed.
Additionally an aero-magnetic survey over the entire Kouilou and Noumbi licence areas was carried out in 2004 in order to grade prospects for 2D seismic in 2005.
06 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 key strengths 2005 objectives Experience in operating in frontier markets, with their complexities in terms of politics, regulation, logistics and access to skilled labour Track record of cost control as operator, exemplified by the low operating Complete the acquisition of a cost of under US$2.00 per entitlement bbl achieved in Turkmenistan last year majority interest in HOEC India Culture of value creation in deals, exemplified in the acquisition of the Drill up to eight exploration wells in Congo assets in 2002 3 Congo, Turkmenistan and Egypt The individual experience, competence and balance of our management team Accelerate development drilling in Nebit Dag and MBoundi before depreciation and administrative expenses Production at least 24,000 bopd net by year end 2005 will therefore see an acceleration of Finally, we will continue to work towards the Outlook development and appraisal drilling in Nebit disposal of our shipping business.
Although The outlook for 2005 is good.
With production Dag and MBoundi.
With the benefit of the it lost money last year due primarily to the net to Burren currently at 20,400 bopd seismic data acquired last year, we will start loss of freight business when the Volga-Don I have every confidence that we will be able exploration drilling in Turkmenistan, Congo canal was closed on two occasions following to comfortably meet our stated target of and Egypt.
In all up to 40 development and accidents by third parties, the business 24,000 bopd by year-end.
The current market appraisal wells should be drilled, roughly is fundamentally profitable.
However it is indicators would suggest crude prices will equally split between Turkmenistan and now too small in a group context to be remain above US$40 for most of the year Congo, and up to eight exploration wells considered a core business.
and should this prove correct it would allow of which up to two will be in Egypt.
us to fund our full capex programme and Strategy the acquisition of up to 51% of HOEC from We aim to take Group net production from Burrens medium term strategy is to build operating cash ow alone.
The 2005 drilling 20,400 bopd at present Turkmenistan a focused portfolio of E&P asset clusters in programme, in terms of both development 11,300 bopd and Congo 9,100 bopd to frontier markets where there are opportunities appraisal and exploration wells, is a further at least 24,000 bopd by the end of the year arising from farm-ins, acquisitions or new progression from 2004, and has the potential from development drilling alone, without licence rounds.
We wish to achieve critical to deliver growth in both production and assuming any incremental production from mass in each market in order to have the reserves.
The Groups balance sheet is strong exploration drilling.
presence and strength of relationship with and I look forward to the year with confidence.
governments and local oil and gas companies We will continue negotiations with the to leverage the initial investment into new Turkmen authorities with a view to concluding business opportunities.
Where possible we a gas sales contract, thereby commercialising seek to align ourselves with established local Burrens significant gas resources.
interests via co-investment or profit share mechanisms in order to facilitate this process: Capital expenditure is expected to be in we have successfully adopted this approach Finian OSullivan the region of 100 million excluding the in our recent entries into Egypt and India.
Chief Executive Officer acquisition costs of HOEC or any subsequent 4 April 2005 equity injection, representing a doubling We recognise the desirability of harvesting of 2004 expenditure.
Some 25% of this gains on investments at the appropriate point sum is expected to be exploration related.
in the project development cycle, particularly Approximately half of the expenditure will be in circumstances where the value placed on in Turkmenistan, 4045% in Congo, and up particular assets by third parties may materially to 5% in Egypt.
We are constantly looking out for opportunities to maximise value Burren expects to provide additional funding for shareholders, whether as buyer or seller.
for HOEC to finance its major development project, the PY-1 gas eld offshore Tamil Nadu.
HOEC has recently spudded an exploration well in Assam, where Premier Oil is operator HOEC 25% the results of which are expected before mid-year.
BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004 07
