Chief Executives Review In a year of mixed fortunes for markets, the London Stock Exchange has continued to reinforce and improve its position as the premier source of liquidity, benchmark prices and data for equity markets in the European time zone.
Our core business has performed well during a period of increasing competition in a developing single market in Europe.
Over the last year, we have advanced of EUROSETS which will enable us, for All of these initiatives will broaden our our strategy for financial services and the first time, to compete for the trading customer base and extend the reach diversified our business with a series of European securities on our efficient, of our business into new markets.
Proquote, our low cost transparent and low cost SETS platform.
Worldwide we now have agreements financial market software and data As a first step we began trading the with exchanges in the key growth services supplier, has nearly doubled most liquid Dutch securities in May 2004. markets of India, Russia and China.
the number of terminals it provides.
We will be opening an office in Hong EDX London, our international This year we have cemented our Kong this year as part of our commitment derivatives market, commenced leadership in technology and driven to facilitate listings from the growing operations in June 2003 and has seen ahead with a step change in customer number of Asian companies who seek record volumes since the start of 2004. service.
Using flexible and scalable access to the international capital Our Covered Warrants market, launched technology we have developed central managed in London.
last year, increased revenues during databases that enable the delivery of a year of growth.
new products quickly and competitively.
We believe that our proven ability Making use of this technology, an update to compete in the global market for We have also supported an increasingly to Level 1 Plus, our enriched market data transaction services will provide further innovative environment, stimulated by service, was launched in May 2004. strong organic growth opportunities.
the new ways in which our customers SEDOL, our new global securities In addition, our global brand: our wish to conduct business and the identifier launched in March, has already stewardship of the deepest, most liquid changes to market structure driven by proved a success with customers.
Both and most international equity market in regulation.
SETSmm, our new hybrid products have been designed to deliver Europe: and our strong financial position order book market-maker platform for services that anticipate and increase provide the base from which to develop trading mid-cap securities has already market demand as well as add value attractive growth prospects.
helped to grow the volume of business in to our business.
its stocks and significantly reduce dealing costs.
The move towards a single European market in financial services will be assisted by the launch We have also supported an increasingly innovative environment, stimulated by the new ways in which our customers wish to conduct business.
06 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE MARKET ACTIVITY Results this year were satisfactory Trading volumes in the UK equity market against a backdrop of variable market reached 49 million bargains, an increase conditions.
Turnover increased six per over the previous year of 22.5 per cent.
cent to 250.4 million and operating SETS, our electronic order book which profit before exceptional items and trades the UKs most liquid securities goodwill amortisation increased to continues to grow rapidly.
The average 83.2 million, a rise of two per cent, with number of UK trades per day reached a rise of 17 per cent in operating profit.
132,000, an increase of 22 per cent on Earnings per share increased 20 per cent the year, but primary market conditions to 21.7 pence.
Adjusted earnings per remained very difficult.
However, despite share excluding exceptional items and this we admitted 236 companies to our goodwill amortisation rose two per cent markets including 117 Initial Public from 20.9 pence to 21.3 pence per share.
These results reflect a period of capital investment in the initiatives designed Clara Furse ISSUER SERVICES Chief Executive to diversify our business and to deliver Over the year, market conditions for an uplift in earnings in future.
Despite this our markets have delivered an CAPITAL RESTRUCTURING impressive performance and we have This year, the Office of Fair Trading The Exchange has maintained a strong again outstripped all our competitors conducted an inquiry into increases in financial position since listing, aided by with 85 per cent of all IPOs in Western our annual and admission fees for the positive cash generation over the period.
AIM goes from strength to UK Main Market and AIM.
Although we In April we announced an agreement strength.
Where other markets for consider that the increases were entirely to dispose of the Tower for 67 million, smaller growing companies around the justified given the value obtained from with 34 million to be received on world struggle to survive, AIM has seen admission to trading on our markets, we completion, expected in July.
With 94 IPOs this year, raising 1,400 million decided to negotiate a settlement in order a cash balance standing at 228 million and taking the total number of companies to avoid lengthy and costly distractions at 31 March 2004, we believe it is to 792.
The Main Market continues to be as we seek to move our business forward.
appropriate to return surplus cash to the most attractive listing venue in Europe This settlement reduced UK annual and shareholders.
We remain confident that and attracts companies from around the AIM fees with effect from 1 April 2004. we retain sufficient financial flexibility globe.
The first Indian company to take to pursue opportunities for growth.
a primary listing in London came to the Main Market in October and we also continue to strengthen our links with Russia and China, the other high growth markets.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 07 Chief Executives Review BROKER SERVICES INFORMATION SERVICES DERIVATIVES SERVICES Volume on SETS, our electronic order The success we have had in broadening Our new derivatives products include book, continues to increase.
In order to our revenue base is demonstrated by the those offered by EDX London that we meet our customers increasing use of growth of Proquote since we acquired acquired from OM AB in June 2003 and electronic trading and technical trading it just over a year ago.
With good volume strategies we have improved functionality pressures in the data vendor market which growth in the nine months since launch, with the introduction of iceberg orders have led to a further decline in the number EDX London has been working with that make the execution of large orders of terminals taking our real-time market customers on providing services to the easier.
In addition, and in collaboration data, Proquote has almost doubled the European OTC derivatives market, the with the market, we have designed a number of screens it provides to the first of which was launched in March new pricing model that offers incentives market.
Together with EDX Londons model to increase trading through the order is enhanced to meet the growing needs of linked exchanges, offering trading book.
These initiatives improve the of market participants, it will improve firms access to multiple markets through quality of the market by reducing cost, our direct customer access and help one order book, it is positioned to benefit thereby improving volume and liquidity.
to inform future product development.
from growth in the international derivatives market.
The Covered Warrants market SETSmm has also been designed to We are focussed on the needs of our has grown steadily and improving improve the quality and depth of our customers who require a greater range underlying market conditions coupled market.
It combines the benefits of SETS of information and reduced levels of with increasing investor awareness with Londons market-maker talent to operational risk and cost.
The new should drive growth in future.
deliver a more efficient and transparent SEDOL Masterfile service for listed market in FTSE 350 stocks.
It has been securities will potentially save the TECHNOLOGY ROADMAP highly successful as trading in those stocks industry millions of pounds and looks Our strategy for technology is a critical has increased significantly and spreads set to become the global standard for determinant for the future of the business.
have reduced by nearly 40 per cent in the instrument and trade identification.
In order to build on our technology first five months since introduction.
RNS, our company news service, has advantage, we aim to reduce the total improved its customer interface to allow cost of ownership of our systems over The initiative to create a trading service users greater control over the way in time while making a step change in for Dutch equities is a first step in which they present information to the flexibility and scalability.
To achieve this broadening our European offering in market.
In its second year of operation in we are deploying new generation response to clear market demand.
competition with other news providers, commoditised hardware in stages across EUROSETS offers all of the benefits we maintained a market-leading position the business, working with the worlds of the London market model and is with 90 of the FTSE 100 using our service.
leading technology companies such as designed to meet customers needs and Microsoft, HP, Accenture and Cisco.
deliver substantial benefits in costs and The effect of this is the removal of future reliability.
As the first measure of true volume capacity constraints, enabling us competition for the trading of national to add new services at much lower cost.
market equities, we intend to lead the development of a future competitive landscape for exchanges in Europe.
08 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 THE FUTURE We believe that our strategy for The Exchange is well-placed to benefit growth is on track.
Our special dividend from the opening up of the global market provides an immediate return for for transaction services and the lowering shareholders while maintaining a strong of regulatory barriers within a single financial position.
We are well-placed to financial services market in Europe.
capitalise on the changing competitive Our continuing investment in technology: landscape while retaining the financial our primary focus on customer service: flexibility to grasp opportunities that are and our global brand, international likely to deliver significant additional markets and deep liquidity pool provide growth for our business.
the Exchange with a sharp competitive edge.
As our customers move to internationalise their businesses and adopt new and more complex trading strategies, we will offer them access to an increasing range of products across national market boundaries.
Our successful efforts to influence the Clara Furse development of the regulatory landscape Chief Executive in Europe will continue.
This will enhance our ability to compete in the expanding market for financial services.
We will use our pivotal position in Europe to ensure that our customers reap the benefits of structural change, as we did this year in ensuring that the merger between LCH and Clearnet delivered both lower fees for our market and improved strategic flexibility for the Exchange.
Our continuing investment in technology: our primary focus on customer service: and our global brand, international markets and deep liquidity pool provide the Exchange with a sharp competitive edge.
LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2004 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 09
