16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT In 2004 Northern Rock delivered excellent results including: RECORD PRE TAX PROFITS OF 431.2 MILLION - A LIKE-FOR-LIKE INCREASE OF 13.0% ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT OF 64.9 BILLION - AN INCREASE OF 24.9% RECORD NET LENDING OF 12.9 BILLION - AN INCREASE OF Adam J Applegarth 51.9% AND A MARKET SHARE OF 11.2% RATIO OF COSTS TO ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT IMPROVED TO 0.38% 2003 UNDERLYING - 0.41% RETURN ON EQUITY OF 21.3% TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE 26.5P - AN INCREASE OF 13.7% THE NORTHERN ROCK FOUNDATION - SUPPORTING CHARITABLE CAUSES - TO RECEIVE 21.6 MILLION 6 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 9 2004 has been a very challenging year and so I am delighted to LENDING announce results that show record growth, record profits and During 2004 we once again delivered record levels of low risk further improvement in earnings per share.
Gross lending was 23,342 million, an increase of 34.8% over the previous year, with net lending of 12,932 million, an High quality asset growth and cost efficiency form the essence increase of 51.9%.
We achieved gross residential lending of of our strategy.
Through a combination of being a small stock 20,051 million, an increase of 31.8% over 2003 and net player, having a unit cost advantage and retaining customers, residential lending of 1 1,383 million, an increase of 44.8%, which whilst attracting new borrowers and savers, we are able to grow represented 11.2% of the UK market.
our assets under management strongly, leveraging our equity capital to enhance shareholder returns.
Cost efficiency is key Our mix of new residential lending during the first half of 2004 to our strategy, as this allows profitable growth of the business reflected the shift in customer preferences towards discounted and the manufacture of competitive products for our customers.
In the second half, as interest rates moved closer to their cyclical peak and the price of fixed rate products reduced, short term Our core products of mortgages, savings and personal loans all fixed rate lending was more prevalent.
Our lifestyle range of products, performed well in 2004.
They were complemented by general including our credit bundling product, together, residential Buy to Let insurance and protection products offered in conjunction with and Lifetime Home Equity Release Mortgages HERM, which allow our partners, providing our customers with both choice and older borrowers to withdraw equity from their home to aid retirement peace of mind.
income, continued to be popular.
We remain at the forefront of During 2004 we invested significantly in our infrastructure, both in providing a competitive choice of products for homeowners and terms of technology and commencement of the latest phase of homebuyers, whether they are new or existing customers.
planned building expansion at our Head Office site.
The demands of With the Bank Base Rate remaining low by historical standards, regulation show no signs of abating and our cost base also absorbed continued low unemployment, inflation well controlled and stable an extra 3.6 million from increased regulatory requirements.
UK economic growth rates, fundamentals will remain supportive to However, growth in operating expenses was well contained.
The remortgage market, which accounted for We continue to pursue a multi-channel distribution strategy and have around 40% of UK gross lending in 2004, will also remain strong, opened several specialist mortgage branches in key areas around the particularly as interest rates appear close to their cyclical peak and country.
These additions further strengthen our franchise and provide a the incidence of overhanging redemption charges has diminished.
logical extension to complement our existing network.
In addition to this Due to our relative size and focus on the retention of existing important investment, we continue to invest in other channels, customers our net lending figures are higher than our encouraging e-business links with both mortgage natural share of the market.
Our competitive intermediaries and direct customers.
pricing and transparent approach, 7 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued combined with our Mortgage Review Service support our retention During the second half, however, we funded strongly attracting over performance and limit the impact of redemptions from our 1 billion of new funds, representing our strongest ever half-year portfolios.
Consequently our net lending is very strong with volume performance.
The overall increase in retail balances during 2004 growth of gross lending being leveraged further by low redemptions.
was 896 million resulting in total retail balances under management of 17.2 billion at the year-end.
As borrowers seek to refinance to obtain better deals, Northern Rock, with its unit cost advantage and transparent policy, remains We have a broad distribution platform of branch, postal, telephone well placed to deliver its growth objectives.
As a result Northern and on-line accounts, as well as off-shore and Ireland operations, Rock should not be considered as a proxy for either the housing which we will continue to develop.
In particular we have seen strong market or the industrys net lending figures.
We are a major player inflows in our Silver Savings account, for over 50s, which attracted in the wider mortgage market, which importantly includes balances of over 1.25 billion, following its launch in September remortgaging and remains a key part of our growth plans.
We also funded strongly in fixed rate bonds where contractual guarantees provided customers with added confidence.
We have grown our commercial lending and personal unsecured lending portfolios steadily, maintaining our emphasis on quality.
Our Treasury operation continues to raise wholesale funds, manage We maintain an appropriate balance in these books relative to our interest rate and currency risks, and manage a portfolio of overall assets under management.
investments primarily for liquidity purposes.
It is not a separate profit centre and does not operate trading portfolios.
We have FUNDING continued to develop our non-retail funding in international markets Funding remained strong during 2004.
All three traditional funding with further funding diversification in Continental Europe, North arms retail funding, wholesale funding and securitisation America and Asia.
By diversifying our funding geographically and by continued to perform well.
We added a fourth stream by completing mixing the term of funding appropriately over short, medium and an inaugural covered bond issue in April 2004.
Our funding platform long term horizons we are able to underpin our growth aspirations, is flexible, diverse and robust.
whilst reducing the risk to our platform.
During the year net new Our retail funding franchise remains an important part of our wholesale funding totalled 2.77 billion, increasing balances to funding strategy.
Retail funding inflows were restrained during the 19.7 billion.
first half of the year following successful non-retail activities.
8 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 11 Our residential securitisation programme is firmly established as a been able to reduce the percentage of loans in arrears.
Overall our reliable source of funding, a reflection of the high credit quality of residential arrears remain below half the industry average.
Northern Rocks loan book and the huge investor appetite for this Commercial loan arrears and standalone personal unsecured loan type of financial instrument.
During 2004, we issued 11.1 billion arrears are also significantly better than industry average, reflecting of securitised notes.
Assets under management subject to our policy of attracting high quality lending.
Our provisioning securitisation now amount to 22.3 billion, representing 40% of policies remain prudent and we have no loan exposure outside the our lending portfolios.
Securitisation, with increasing diversification, UK, nor exposure to unsecured commercial lending or leasing.
will continue to play an important role in funding our future growth OUTLOOK plans as well as contributing to capital efficiency.
Our strategy of combining competitive products, effective distribution Already in 2005 we have raised a further US$1.75 billion under our and efficient customer service, driven off a low unit cost base works US Medium Term Note programme and 4.5 billion from our well.
We will continue to develop our business so that it is highly fourteenth residential securitisation transaction further strengthening focussed, resilient and scalable to meet our growth aspirations.
the split between short term and medium term funding.
By continuing to deliver our strategic targets and maintaining our CREDIT QUALITY responsible approach to lending we will continue to enhance value The credit quality of our assets remains very strong.
We do not for our customers and our shareholders in the future.
attract volume growth at the expense of quality.
The credit quality We expect the housing market to slow but activity will be of our lending is excellent and continues to be tightly monitored underpinned by relatively low interest rates, continuing low levels and controlled.
We operate rigorous underwriting processes that of unemployment and a restricted supply of new housing stock.
include credit checking and affordability tests.
Our monthly The attractive pricing for new customers and the further erosion behavioural scoring system confirmed during 2004 that there were of overhanging redemption charges should ensure that levels of no early warning signs of significant credit deterioration.
Even though remortgaging will more than offset the level of slowdown in the mortgage balances have grown significantly, we have not increased housing market.
Our small market share allows us significant room our appetite for risk.
for growth regardless of overall market performance.
This should The arrears performance of our residential lending book improved enable us to achieve our strategic growth range of 20% 5% further during 2004 with only 0.37% of accounts three months or in high quality, low risk, assets under management.
more in arrears compared with 0.45% the year before.
Once again, We are relatively small, have a unit cost advantage, retain existing despite significant growth in mortgages under management we have customers well and are increasingly good at attracting new loans.
Our broad funding platform, efficient distribution network and continued investment in buildings, systems and people will enable us to originate and service increased volumes of profitable business.
We are therefore well placed to continue to deliver strong growth in high quality, low risk assets.
Our strategic targets remain unchanged for 2005 and beyond, reflecting our confidence in our business model to deliver and maintain shareholder value.
9 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 12 THE BOARD During 2004, the number of meetings attended by each Director was as follows: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Chairmans Risk Number of meetings held in 2004 11 6 3 2 1 4 Non Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil 11 3 3 1 1 Chairman - appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
74 2 2 BA Senior Independent Director Sir Derek Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS 10 5 3 1 4 N Pease, BA 10 5 2 4 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE 10 5 3 2 4 N A H Fenwick, MA 10 6 1 3 Sir John Riddell, Bt.
CVO, MA, CA41 - Retired 27 April 2004 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
DL, B. Comm 31 - Retired 27 April 2004 Executive Directors A J Applegarth, BA 11 1 4 D F Baker, BSc, FCIB 11 1 4 R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA 11 1 4 10 10 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 13 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS RFBennett K M Currie Group Finance Director Treasury Director appointed 5 January 2005 C Taylor Company Secretary A M Kuipers Sales & Marketing Director appointed 5 January 2005 A J Applegarth Chief Executive DFBaker Chief Operating Officer 1111 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 14 THE BOARD Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil N A H Fenwick, MA Matt Ridley aged 47, was appointed Chairman of the Company on Adam Fenwick aged 44, was appointed to the Board as a Non- 27 April 2004.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Executive Director in November 2003.
He is an Executive Director Northern Rock plc in November 1996 having previously joined the of Fenwick Limited and a Non-Executive Director of John Swire and Board of Northern Rock Building Society on 1 June 1994.
He is also a Trustee of Newcastle Theatre Royal Dr Ridley is an author and businessman who also holds other NonTrust Limited.
Mr Fenwick is a Member of both the Audit and Executive Directorships which include Northern Investors Company Remuneration Committees.
PLC, Northern 2 VCT plc and P A Holdings Limited.
He is Sir Ian Gibson, CBE Chairman of both the Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
Sir Ian Gibson aged 58, was appointed to the Board as a NonA J Applegarth, BA Executive Director in September 2002.
He is Chairman of BPB plc Adam Applegarth aged 42 has worked for Northern Rock for 21 and a Non-Executive Director of GKN plc and Chelys Limited.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Building was also a member of the Court of the Bank of England from 1999 Society in January 1996, was appointed as an Executive Director of to 2004.
Sir Ian is a Member of the Audit, Nominations, Risk, and Northern Rock plc in October 1996 and subsequently became the Remuneration Committees.
Companys Chief Executive in March 2001.
Mr Applegarth is a governor A M Kuipers of the Royal Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Mr Applegarth is a Andy Kuipers aged 47, was appointed to the Board as an Member of both the Chairman's and Risk Committees.
He is responsible for the coD F Baker, BSc, FCIB ordination and direction of the Group's sales, marketing, products David Baker aged 51 was appointed as the Company's Chief and new mortgage loans processing activities.
Mr Kuipers is a Operating Officer in January 2001.
He became an Executive Member of the Chairmans Committee.
Director of Northern Rock Building Society in January 1996 and was N Pease, BA appointed as an Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in October Nichola Pease aged 43, is Chief Executive of J O Hambro Capital 1996.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
In his Management Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Grainger present role he is responsible for the direction and management of Trust PLC.
She was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company's operations and in particular, Retail Savings, Credit, Northern Rock plc in February 1999.
Ms Pease is Chairman of the Customer Services, Personnel, Premises and Legal and Compliance.
Remuneration Committee and is a Member of the Audit Committee.
Mr Baker is Chairman of The Newcastle Employment Bond Limited and a Trustee of the University of Newcastle upon Tyne M J Queen, BA, FCA Development Trust.
Mr Baker is a Member of both the Chairman's Michael Queen aged 43 is the Finance Director of 3i Group PLC.
He was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in January 2005.
Mr Queen is a Member of both the Audit and R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA Remuneration Committees.
The Group Finance Director, Bob Bennett aged 57, is a Chartered Accountant.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA Building Society in November 1993 and was appointed as an Executive The Senior Independent Director, Sir George Russell aged 69, was Director of Northern Rock plc in November 1996.
In his present role, appointed a Non-Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in he is responsible for Finance, Treasury, Securitisation, Internal Audit, November 1996 having previously joined the Board of Northern Risk Management and Institutional Relations.
Mr Bennett is also a Rock Building Society as a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
He is Trustee of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme and a Non-Executive also Deputy Chairman of ITV plc.
Sir George is a Member of both Director of Greggs plc.
Mr Bennett is a Member of both the the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Chairman's and Risk Committees.
Sir Derek Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS K M Currie Sir Derek Wanless aged 57, joined the Board as a Non-Executive Keith Currie, aged 48 was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director in March 2000.
He was previously Group Chief Executive Director in January 2005.
Mr Currie is responsible for the of National Westminster Bank plc from 1992-1999.
He is also a Nonmanagement of the Companys Group Treasury function including Executive Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc.
Sir Derek is liquidity, wholesale funding, derivative portfolios and the management Vice Chairman of the Statistics Commission and a Trustee of the of the Company's securitisation funding and covered bond National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Mr Currie is a Member of the Chairmans Committee.
is Chairman of both the Audit and Risk Committees and a Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Note: On 27 April 2004 Sir John Riddell and Sir David Chapman retired from the Board of Directors.
12 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Northern Rock plc the Company regards Within the parameters set out in the DIRECTORS adherence to the principles of good Committees terms of reference, the More than half of the Board comprises corporate governance to be of the utmost Executive Committee has responsibility for Non-Executive Directors all of whom have importance.
The Board is accountable to facilitating the Companys effective experience in a wide range of commercial the Company's shareholders for corporate operation to ensure that it meets its and banking activities.
The Board considers governance, and the following describes objectives through the implementation of all of the Non-Executive Directors to be how the Company applies the principles the Strategic and Operational Plans.
The independent for the purposes of the and provisions contained in the Combined Committee also monitors developments in definition in the Combined Code.
This Code of Corporate Governance published the Companys core markets, and examines, requires the Board to determine whether in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The appraises and reviews defence initiatives, each Director is independent in character Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing potential acquisitions and corporate finance and judgement and whether there are Authority require listed companies to initiatives.
It also establishes processes to relationships or circumstances which are disclose how they comply with the control, appraise and review the likely to affect, or could appear to affect, Combined Code and, where they do not do implementation of any new procedures that the Directors judgement.
so, to provide a clear explanation of why are agreed upon.
Sir George Russell, who was appointed they do not comply.
For the period The Management Board Asset and Liability Senior Independent Director of the 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004, Committee is responsible for overseeing the Company on 27 April 2004, was first the Company complied with all aspects of management and review of the Companys elected to the Board as a Non-Executive the Combined Code.
balance sheet risk profile and processes Director in September 1997 immediately THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS together with the Companys balance sheet, prior to demutualisation, having served as a The Board of Directors meets regularly profit and loss and liquidity profiles.
In Director of Northern Rock Building Society throughout the year, retains full and addition, the Committee has authority to between 1985 and 1997.
The Board has no effective control over the Company and its authorise use by the Company of structured hesitation in confirming Sir Georges subsidiaries the Group, is collectively financial products and private equity independence for Combined Code purposes, responsible for the success of the Group investments in accordance with the polices and is satisfied that his period of service as a and determines its strategy and policies and procedures set down in the Corporate Director of Northern Rock Building Society whilst monitoring performance.
The Board Finance and Structured Financial Policy should not be aggregated with his period of met eleven times during 2004 and, after the statement approved by the Board.
service as a Director of the Company in view retirement of Sir John Riddell and of the different legal structure and business A clear division of responsibility exists Sir David Chapman on 27 April 2004, objectives of the two entities.
The Board is between the Chairman, who is responsible comprised the Chairman, the Senior also satisfied that Sir Georges deferred for running the Board, and the Chief Independent Director, four other Nonmembership of a Northern Rock Building Executive who has responsibility for running Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Society pension scheme does not affect his the business.
This division is clearly set out and two other Executive Directors.
Sir George ceased to accrue in the Chairmans letter of appointment and pension benefits after 30 June 1997 and will The Board has a formal written schedule of the Chief Executives job description.
become eligible to receive a pension on 25 matters reserved for its review and approval October 2005 or on his earlier retirement and has adopted a detailed procedures APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD manual which covers the responsibilities and from the Company.
In accordance with the The Companys Articles of Association procedures of the Board, its Committees Companys policy Sir George Russell will require that each Director stands for reand its officers.
This includes setting policies retire from office at the conclusion of the election at least every three years and that for Balance Sheet structural risk 2006 AGM.
Directors appointed by the Board should management, the raising of Non Retail be subject to election by shareholders at As a highly experienced company director, Funds, Liquidity and Credit Risk, the setting the first opportunity after their Sir Georges sound judgement and of capital expenditure budgets, the appointment.
The Directors to retire by challenging approach ensure that he makes a declaration of dividends and the approval of rotation will be those in office longest since significant contribution to the work of the the Annual Report and Accounts.
Non-Executive Board and its Committees.
He and the other Authority for the execution of approved Directors are appointed for a specified term Non-Executive Directors also provide close policies has been delegated by the Board to subject to re-election.
scrutiny of the performance of management the Companys Executive Committee and and the reporting of its performance.
The Company's policy is that Non-Executive the Chief Executive.
The Executive Directors will stand down from office at the It is the Company's policy that every Committee comprises the Chief Executive, conclusion of the next Annual General Director should receive appropriate training the other Executive Directors and the Meeting following their seventieth birthday.
on the first occasion that he or she is Company Secretary.
13 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued appointed to the Board, and subsequently experience of the way in which the As part of the appraisal exercise, each as necessary.
A detailed induction process Company operated and an understanding individual also completed an evaluation of exists for new Directors and, to ensure that the Board and its Committees to enable the of how it developed so that he was best Secretary to report to the Board on how Directors are able to discharge their equipped to lead its continued evolution.
responsibilities effectively, this is supported effective each was in discharging its Dr Ridley was first elected to the Board in responsibilities.
The appraisal exercise was by an ongoing training programme.
In the opinion of the of the annual appraisal process, Directors completed by the Board considering and Board, Dr Ridley was independent for the debating the Secretarys report and are asked to identify areas where additional purposes of the revised Combined Code reviewing the respective strengths and training is required.
on his appointment as Chairman.
Dr Ridleys weaknesses of the Board, its members and To enable the Board to function effectively, letter of appointment sets out his role and its Committees.
The Secretary reported to all Directors have full and timely access to responsibilities and the time commitment the Board that the evaluation of the Board all information which may be relevant to the expected of him.
A copy of his letter of and its Committees showed that they were discharge of their duties and obligations.
appointment will be available for inspection discharging their responsibilities effectively The Company arranges additional, specific at the Annual General Meeting.
and confirmed the process also provided training or support for any Director who useful feedback that would be used to requests it.
BOARD APPRAISAL improve current practice and procedures.
The Combined Code requires that NonThe Chairman ensures that all Directors are Executive Directors, the Board and its BOARD COMMITTEES properly briefed on issues to be discussed Committees should be subject to annual In accordance with the Combined Code at Board meetings.
All Directors are able to appraisal.
Where a Non-Executive Director and the best principles of corporate obtain further advice or seek clarity on is proposed for re-election beyond six governance, the Board has established a issues raised at Board meetings from within years, the proposal should be subject to a number of Committees to assist it in the the Company or from external professional way that it deals with matters that are particularly rigorous review, and should take sources.
All Directors have access to the into account the need for progressive reserved for its consideration.
The advice and services of the Company Chairman and membership of each refreshing of the Board.
Secretary who is responsible for ensuring Committee are set out on page 17. that Board procedures and applicable rules All Executive Directors, Non-Executive and regulations are observed.
Additionally, Each Committee has detailed terms of Directors and the Chairman were subject to the Company Secretary provides regular reference clearly setting out its remit and an appraisal during the financial year under reports to the Board to ensure that it authority.
In accordance with the review to ensure that their contribution remains up to date on the latest regulatory, Combined Code, the terms of reference of continued to be of the highest standard.
legal and governance developments the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and The Chief Executive and all of the Nonrelevant to the Company and its officers.
Risk Committees are available on the Executive Directors were appraised by the Where necessary, the Directors are able to Companys website and on request in Chairman whilst the appraisal of the Group take independent professional advice at the writing from the Company Secretary.
Finance Director and Chief Operating Companys expense.
Officer was completed by the Chief In addition to the meetings of the Board Executive.
The Senior Independent and the Committees which took place CHAIRMANS APPOINTMENT throughout the year, the Chairman also Director conducted the appraisal of the As announced on 17 July 2003 Dr M W Ridley Chairman, after meeting with the Nonheld meetings with Non-Executive succeeded Sir John Riddell as Chairman of Directors in absence of the Executive Executive Directors in absence of the the Company on 27 April 2004.
The Directors and Sir George Russell met with Chairman and having also canvassed the selection process to identify Sir Johns the Non-Executive Directors in absence of opinions of the Executive Directors.
successor commenced in 2002 and was the Chairman and the Executives.
conducted by the Nominations Committee For the year under review, the conclusion of in accordance with governance standards The following paragraphs set out details the appraisal exercise was that each Nonand best practice in force prior to the of the Committees and the particular work Executive Director, Executive Director and publication of the revised Combined Code.
the Chairman demonstrated a continued commitment and effective contribution to The Nominations Committee concluded AUDIT COMMITTEE their position.
The terms of appointment of that Dr Ridley was the best person for The Audit Committee comprises five each Non-Executive Director have been appointment as Chairman because of his independent Non-Executive Directors and exceptional leadership skills and business renewed for a further year with effect from met six times during 2004.
Additionally, the Committee 1 January 2005, subject to re-election and, where appropriate, advises the Board where appropriate at the Annual General on all matters relating to regulatory, concluded that Dr Ridley satisfied the important requirements of demonstrating Meeting to be held in April 2005. prudential and accounting requirements 14 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued that may affect the Group.
It also reports CHAIRMAN'S COMMITTEE The Company announced on 5 January to the Board on both financial and nonThe principal function of the Chairmans 2005 that with immediate effect Mr Queen financial controls.
An important aspect of would be joining the Board as a NonCommittee is to review the Company's its role is to ensure that an objective and Executive Director and that Mr Kuipers and strategy and to consider any major professional relationship is maintained with Mr Currie would be joining the Board as operational issues or proposals for the external auditors.
Brief biographies of the significant new initiatives that may arise.
new appointees are detailed at page 12 of The Committee only meets as a formal The Audit Committee has responsibility the Annual Report.
Mr Queen will augment Committee in exceptional circumstances for recommending the appointment, the Boards financial expertise and has and its activities are reported to the Board.
re-appointment and removal of the joined the Boards Audit and Remuneration The Committee is made up of the external auditors.
In February 2004 Committees, whilst the promotions of Mr Chairman, the Executive Directors and the the Audit Committee reviewed the Kuipers and Mr Currie reflect the Company Secretary.
effectiveness of the external auditors and importance of the Marketing and Treasury made a recommendation that they be functions to the Companys strategy.
In NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE re-appointed for a further 12 months.
addition to these appointments the The Nominations Committee is made up of The Board accepted this recommendation Company also announced on 5 January the Chairman and two independent Nonand an appropriate resolution was passed 2005 that Miss Radcliffe would join the Executive Directors.
The Committee met at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Board as a Non-Executive Director with three times during 2004.
It monitors and The Audit Committee reviews the scope effect from 1 March 2005.
As a former reviews the membership of, and succession to, and results of the annual external audit, its Independent Complaints Commissioner for the Board of Directors and the Committee cost effectiveness, and the independence the Financial Services Authority, Miss Radcliffe makes recommendations to the Board in this and objectivity of the external auditors.
It will increase the Boards regulatory expertise regard.
One of its functions is to identify also reviews the nature and extent of any and will join the Boards Remuneration and potential Executive and Non-Executive non-audit services provided by the Risk Committees.
Directors taking into account the requirement external auditors.
The external auditors for the members of the Board to have an The Company believes that the appointment may attend all meetings and have direct appropriate range of skills and experience to of all four individuals is in the best interests access to the Audit Committee and its understand the activities of Northern Rock of its shareholders.
It should be noted that Chairman at all times.
The Chief Internal and its subsidiary undertakings.
Spencer Stuart Recruitment Limited has no Auditor provides further assurance that the other connection with the Company.
significant risks identified by the business During 2004, the Nominations Committee are properly managed.
The Chief Internal REMUNERATION COMMITTEE assessed the size of the Board, the Auditor has direct access to the Audit The Remuneration Committee comprises six attributes of the Board members, the Committee and its Chairman.
The independent Non-Executive Directors and continued growth of the Company and its Executive Directors are not members of the met twice in 2004.
It is responsible for strategic aims.
The Committee concluded Audit Committee but attend meetings by considering and advising the Board on the that, whilst the Company placed an invitation of the Audit Committee, as remuneration policy for Executive Directors appropriate level of demand on its necessary, to facilitate its business.
and the Chairman, and for determining their Directors, the performance of the Board remuneration packages.
In discharging its and its Committees would be enhanced The Audit Committee reviews the internal responsibilities the Remuneration Committee by the appointment of two further Noncontrol system on behalf of the Board and takes professional advice from within and Executive Directors and two further is also responsible for reviewing the outside the Company.
It is the Board's Executive Directors.
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
responsibility to determine the remuneration At each meeting the Committee receives Spencer Stuart Recruitment Limited was policy for Non-Executive Directors within the reports of reviews conducted throughout retained by the Company to assist in the limits set in the Articles of Association.
The the Company by the Internal Audit and identification and recruitment of NonRemuneration Committee also determines periodically Compliance functions.
Executive Directors who would add value the level of remuneration for the Companys The Combined Code requires the Board to to the Board and its Committees.
An Management Board Directors comprising be satisfied that at least one member of the extensive search by Spencer Stuart management at the level immediately Audit Committee has recent and relevant Recruitment Limited led to Mr Queen below the Board.
The Board is satisfied in and Miss Radcliffe being considered and In accordance with the requirements of the this regard and, in addition, in the opinion of recommended to the Board by the Directors Remuneration Report the Board the qualifications of each of the Nominations Committee.
The Committee Regulations 2002 further information may Audit Committee members gives the Audit also recommended Mr Kuipers and Mr be found in the Companys Directors Committee the breadth of financial Currie as appropriate candidates for the Remuneration Report.
experience to discharge its responsibilities.
15 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued RISK COMMITTEE INTERNAL CONTROL significant risks.
The Board also receives The Risk Committee comprises three The Board of Directors is responsible for monthly financial information, which independent Non-Executive Directors the Group's system of internal control and includes key performance and risk plus Mr Applegarth, Mr Baker and for annually reviewing its effectiveness.
Where areas for improvement in Mr Bennett.
The Risk Committee met four system of internal control is designed to the system are identified, the Board times during 2004.
The main role of the manage risk rather than eliminate it and in considers the recommendations made by Risk Committee is to review, on behalf of this regard, the Board considers that the Executive Committee, the Risk the Board, the key risks inherent in the Northern Rock is a well-controlled, riskCommittee and the Audit Committee.
business, the system of control necessary averse business that continues to adopt a A detailed description of the Group's to manage such risks, and to present their prudent stance in the management of risk.
approach to financial risk management and findings to the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the related use of derivatives is set out in the system of internal control and is This responsibility requires the Risk note 37 to the accounts.
Material risk satisfied that there is a sound system of Committee to keep under review the exposures are subject to Board policy internal control that safeguards effectiveness of the Group's system of statements that set out the exposure limits shareholders investments and the internal controls, which includes financial, of the risks and the hedges and control Companys assets.
operational, compliance and risk techniques to be utilised.
In addition, management controls and to foster a In accordance with the guidance set out in regular reporting of all risk exposures is culture that emphasises and demonstrates the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, monitored throughout the Company by the the benefits of a risk-based approach to the Company has an ongoing process for Operational Risk Committee whose internal control and management of the identifying, evaluating and managing the membership is drawn from each of the Group.
The Risk Committee fulfils this significant risks faced by it.
This process was Companys departments within which remit by reinforcing management's control in place for the period 1 January 2004 to 31 operational risk may arise.
consciousness and making appropriate December 2004 and remained in place on The Companys Internal Audit function recommendations to the Board on all the date that the 2004 Annual Report and provides a degree of assurance as to the significant matters relating to the Group's Accounts was approved by the Board.
As operation and validity of the system of risk strategy and policies.
part of the Companys continuing evaluation internal control and planned corrective of Internal Control, the Board has reviewed Other responsibilities of the Risk actions are independently monitored for and where necessary updated the process Committee include keeping under review timely completion.
for identifying and evaluating significant risks the effectiveness of the Group's risk affecting the business and the policies and management infrastructure.
This involves COMMUNICATIONS procedures by which these risks are an assessment of risk management A Summary Financial Statement is issued to managed.
procedures for the identification, all shareholders and a copy of the Annual measurement and control of key risk Report and Accounts and The Northern The Company is committed to developing exposures in accordance with changes in Rock Foundations report is available by and maintaining a control-conscious culture the operating environment.
It is also written request to the Company Secretary in all areas.
This is achieved through a wellprimarily responsible for considering the or from the Northern Rock website: defined organisational structure with clear major findings of any of the Financial www.
The Company reporting lines and a commitment to Services Authority or internal external communicates regularly with its recruiting and training staff governed by audit's risk management review and shareholders who are given the opportunity appropriate codes of conduct.
In addition, management's response.
to raise matters for discussion at the Annual the Group maintains procedure manuals General Meeting.
The Company also deals that detail the procedures to control To assist the Board in discharging its with a number of written enquiries from physical and logical access, segregation of responsibilities for the setting of Risk shareholders throughout the year.
duties and credit, expenditure and other policy, the Risk Committee periodically authorisation limits.
There are wellreviews the Group's credit risk, interest The Company regards communication with established budgetary and strategic rate risk, liquidity risk and operational risk institutional shareholders as important.
To planning cycles, and the Board reviews the exposures in relation to the Board's risk ensure that concerns of major shareholders results monthly against budgets, forecasts appetite and the Group's capital are addressed, the Company has incorporated and prior year actual results, together with adequacy.
The Risk Committee also a number of initiatives into its procedures other key business measures.
ensures that the public disclosure of during 2004.
In October 2004 the Company information regarding the Group's risk The Chief Executive reports to the Board held a governance day, to which the management policies and key risk on behalf of the Executive Committee on Companys major institutional investors were exposures is in accordance with the significant changes in the business and the invited.
The day was hosted by the Chairman statutory requirements and financial external environment which affect and attended by the Chief Executive and the reporting standards.
16 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 05:33 pm Page 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Senior Independent Director.
In addition, all of prudent judgements and estimates, have D F Baker the other Non-Executive Directors were been used and that applicable accounting R F Bennett offered the opportunity to attend the standards have been followed.
The Company was pleased with appointed 5 January 2005 The Directors are responsible for ensuring the attendance of a number of its investors K M Currie that the Company and Group keeps appointed 5 January 2005 and found that the day provided an excellent accounting records that disclose with opportunity to engage with shareholders on C Taylor reasonable accuracy at any time the Company the Companys governance arrangements.
and Group's financial position and that enable retired 27 April 2004 In addition to the governance day, the them to ensure that the financial statements Company Secretary reports to the Board comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE on feedback received from shareholders.
are also responsible for safeguarding the Dr M W Ridley Additionally, the Chief Executive and Group assets of the Company and Group and hence appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 Finance Director have extensive ongoing for taking reasonable steps to prevent and Sir Ian Gibson contact with shareholders and feedback arising detect fraud and other irregularities.
Sir Derek Wanless from this is also reported to the Board.
The maintenance and integrity of the Coupled with presentations from analysts and retired 27 April 2004 Northern Rock plc website is the brokers throughout the year, these REMUNERATION COMMITTEE responsibility of the Directors: the work arrangements ensure that all Directors, both N Pease Chairman Executive and Non-Executive, remain up to carried out by the auditors does not appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 date on the views of major shareholders.
involve consideration of these matters Sir George Russell and, accordingly, the auditors accept no retired as Chairman of the As Senior Independent Director, Sir George responsibility for any changes that may Committee on 27 April 2004 Russell is available to shareholders if they have have occurred to the financial statements N A H Fenwick concerns which contact through the normal since they were initially presented on Sir Ian Gibson channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or the website.
M J Queen Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or appointed 5 January 2005 for which such contact is inappropriate.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Sir Derek Wanless the preparation and dissemination of financial To ensure that opportunities are offered to Dr M W Ridley statements may differ from legislation in resigned from Committee on 27 April 2004 major shareholders to meet with members other jurisdictions.
of the Board, a number of more informal retired 27 April 2004 lunches are also held throughout the year COMMITTEES where investor feedback on strategy and RISK COMMITTEE Membership of the Board's Committees governance is encouraged.
Sir Derek Wanless Chairman is set out below.
appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 GOING CONCERN Sir Ian Gibson AUDIT COMMITTEE The Directors are satisfied that the Group Sir George Russell Sir Derek Wanless Chairman has adequate resources to continue in appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 N A H Fenwick resigned from Committee business for the foreseeable future.
For this N A H Fenwick on 31 December 2004 reason, they continue to adopt the going Sir Ian Gibson N Pease concern basis in preparing the accounts.
resigned from Committee N Pease on 31 December 2004 M J Queen STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' A J Applegarth appointed 5 January 2005 RESPONSIBILITIES D F Baker Dr M W Ridley The Companies Act 1985 requires the resigned from Committee 27 April 2004 R F Bennett Directors to prepare financial statements for Dr M W Ridley Sir George Russell each financial year that give a true and fair resigned from Committee resigned from Committee on 27 April 2004 view of the state of affairs of the Company 31 December 2004 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
and Group as at the end of the year and of Sir David Chapman, Bt.
retired 27 April 2004 retired 27 April 2004 the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
The Directors consider that in preparing the CHAIRMAN'S COMMITTEE financial statements on pages 46 to 77 Dr M W Ridley Non-Executive Director appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 appropriate accounting policies, consistently Executive Director applied and supported by reasonable and A J Applegarth Executive 17 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 20 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY Remuneration Committee by invitation of Inbucon Administration Ltd were The Directors Remuneration Report is the Committee, save that they are absent responsible for preparing Total presented to shareholders by the Board when their own remuneration is under Shareholder Return calculations for the and contains the following information: consideration.
The Remuneration purposes of the Companys Long Term Committee operates within agreed terms Incentive Plan and this Remuneration A description of the role of the of reference and has responsibility for Report.
Inbucon Administration Ltd did Remuneration Committee: making recommendations to the Board not provide other advice or services to A summary of the Groups Remuneration on the Groups general policy relating to the Company: and Policy including a statement of executive remuneration.
It also Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer advised the the Companys policy on Directors determines, on behalf of the Board, Company on various share plan matters remuneration: specific remuneration packages for the and compliance with the Directors Chairman, the Executive Directors and Graphs illustrating the performance of Remuneration Report Regulations.
They the Management Board Directors, being the Company relative to the FTSE 100 are the Companys main legal advisor.
the level of management immediately Index and the FTSE 350 Index for the below the Board.
last five years: COMPLIANCE The Group has complied with the Combined The Remuneration Committee meets Details of the terms of the service Codes provisions relating to Directors regularly and takes advice from both contracts and the remuneration of each remuneration throughout the year.
inside and outside the Group on a range Director for the preceding financial year: of matters, including the scale and Details of the share options and awards REMUNERATION POLICY FOR composition of the total remuneration under long-term incentive schemes held EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS package payable in comparable financial by the Directors: and The Remuneration Committee believes institutions to people with similar that the continuing improvement in Details of each Directors interest in qualifications, skills and experience.
performance of Northern Rock depends Ordinary Shares in the Company.
The following persons provided advice or on individual contributions made by the This Report complies with the Directors services that materially assisted the Executive Directors.
For this reason, the Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Remuneration Committee in its remuneration policy is designed to provide the Regulations.
This Report also sets consideration of Directors remuneration competitive packages to motivate, reward out how the principles of the Combined matters during the year: and retain Executive Directors of high Code relating to Executive Director quality and to align their interests with The Committee consulted the Chief remuneration are applied by the Group.
Executive on matters relating to the A resolution will be put to Shareholders at remuneration of the other Executive The Board has adopted, on the the Annual General Meeting on 26 April Directors who report to him.
The recommendation of the Remuneration 2005 inviting them to consider and approve Chairman was also consulted in Committee, a remuneration policy with the this Report.
relation to the remuneration of all objectives set out below.
It is intended Executive Directors: that this policy should continue to apply THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for 2005 and subsequent years: Internal support was provided to the The Remuneration Committee consists Remuneration Committee by the entirely of independent Non-Executive i the remuneration packages for Company Secretary: Directors and comprises Ms N Pease Executive Directors are designed to be appointed Chairman on 27 April 2004, competitive in terms of market practice: Watson Wyatt LLP advised the Sir George Russell, Mr N A H Fenwick, Remuneration Committee on a range of ii performance-related remuneration Sir Ian Gibson, Mr M J Queen appointed issues including the benchmarking of should seek to align the interests of 5 January 2005 and Sir Derek Wanless.
Executive Directors salaries and the Executive Directors with those of the Dr M W Ridley resigned from, and Sir Chairmans fee.
In addition to providing shareholders through the imposition of David Chapman retired from, the this advice to the Remuneration Committee, stretching corporate performance Committee on 27 April 2004.
Where Watson Wyatt LLP are consulting actuaries targets and the satisfaction of most appropriate, the Chairman and Chief to the Company and advised on various short and longer term incentives in the Executive attend meetings of the pension issues: form of shares: and 18 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 21 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued iii to motivate for future achievement, a As a result of changes to the performanceSHORT TERM BONUS SCHEME significant proportion of remuneration Northern Rock operates a short term cash related elements of remuneration in recent should be based on operational and bonus scheme under which payments are years including, from 2005, the proposed financial performance both in the short made on an annual basis at the discretion imposition of a corporate performance and long term together with the of the Remuneration Committee.
All of condition on awards vesting under the individual contribution made by the the Executive Directors and certain senior bonus matching plan and deferred share Executive Directors.
executives participate in this scheme.
scheme, and the increase in annual bonus potential as described below, the The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews This cash bonus scheme relates to  element of total all aspects of remuneration to ensure these on-year increases in the Groups pre-tax potential remuneration has materially remain appropriate.
This report sets out the profit on ordinary activities, with increased in recent years.
Companys policy on Executive Directors increases in pre-tax profits generating a remuneration for 2005 and, so far as bonus payment equal to a percentage of BASIC SALARY practicable, for subsequent years.
Only where there is an increase in The Committees objective is that Executive inclusion in the report of remuneration policy adjusted like-for-like pre-tax profits will Directors basic salaries should be paid at in respect of years after 2005 is required by Executive Directors be eligible for a short an appropriate level to take account of the Regulations.
Every 1% increase in preboth personal performance and of salaries Committee is able to state its remuneration tax profits generates a bonus payment within a comparator group of financial policy for 2005 with reasonable certainty, and equal to 5% of salary with a maximum of institutions.
The Committee considers that this policy will continue in subsequent 75% of salary by way of bonus for 15% exceptional performance, whether years unless changed by the Remuneration increase in profits with a sliding scale corporate or individual, should be rewarded Committee.
The Remuneration Committee between these points.
Payment of onethrough bonus and incentive schemes considers that a successful remuneration policy third of the bonus will be subject to the rather than basic salary.
needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account Remuneration Committees view of the Salaries are reviewed annually for each of future changes in the Companys business participants personal performance, and Executive Director, and revised salaries took environment and in remuneration practice.
the remaining two-thirds relates to the effect from 1 January 2005 as follows: Any changes in policy for years after 2005 will performance of the business.
The bonus be described in future Directors Remuneration payable is reduced by the value of shares A J Applegarth Reports: such reports will continue to be appropriated under the all-employee 625,000 2004 - 565,000 subject to shareholder approval.
All Inland Revenue Approved Share Incentive D F Baker statements in this report in relation to Plan for the year, to the extent needed to 390,000 2004 - 375,000 remuneration policy for years after 2005 ensure that the relevant bonus cap is not should be read in light of this paragraph.
R F Bennett 390,000 2004 - 375,000 On this basis, the bonus earned in ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION respect of 2004 was 65.15% of salary.
Mr A M Kuipers and Mr K M Currie were Remuneration comprises: basic salary, appointed to the Board on 5 January 2005, annual bonus, pension benefits and benefits For 2005 the Remuneration Committee will and their initial salaries were 270,000 each.
In addition, Executive Directors and continue to operate the cash bonus scheme senior executives participate in certain share on the basis described above however, The revised salaries of the Executive based incentive schemes, comprising the following a careful review of bonus Directors have been benchmarked against bonus matching plan, deferred share arrangements and consideration of a salaries paid for similar positions in banks in scheme and long term incentive plan.
These review by Watson Wyatt LLP of comparator the FTSE 100 Index and for companies in share-based incentive schemes, and the companies, whilst every 1% increase in positions 51 75 in the FTSE 100 Index.
annual bonus, are performance-related, and pre-tax profits will continue to generate a During 2004 the Companys 13 Management the Remuneration Committee regards them bonus equal to 5% of salary, the bonus cap Board Directors were paid salaries ranging as a key element in the Executive Directors has been increased to 100% of salary for a from 90,000 to 215,000. remuneration package.
19 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 22 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued BONUS MATCHING PLAN The bonus matching plan was operated in LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN All Executive Directors and certain senior Participants are also encouraged to identify respect of 2004, resulting in the share awards described on page 26.
The Remuneration executives participate in a long term incentive with the interests of shareholders by Committee will continue to operate it in plan LTIP, which was approved by investing some of their own funds in shareholders in 1998.
Awards have been respect of 2005 and future years.
Executive Directors and made in 1998 and each subsequent year other senior executives invited by the The beneficial ownership of the matched thereafter.
The plan involves the grant of Remuneration Committee to participate shares transfers to the participant on the share awards, which can only be released if are entitled to elect for all or part of the grant of an award.
The matched shares will demanding performance targets are achieved after tax amount of their annual cash bonus be forfeited if the participant ceases to be and if the participant remains in employment, to be used to acquire shares which will be entitled to them except in certain good except in certain good leaver circumstances.
held for a period of three years: leaver circumstances.
The participant will The number of shares comprised in an award alternatively they may elect to deposit their be entitled to any dividends paid on his is calculated by reference to a percentage of own shares with an aggregate value not matched shares during the restricted period.
salary, with the maximum award of shares exceeding the cash amount of the after tax being 100% of salary.
The shares acquired or deposited Under a separate element of the short term Performance is measured over a three year will be eligible for additional matched bonus scheme, the Remuneration Committee period on the basis of total shareholder shares at the end of the three-year period, return TSR, comparing the Companys may grant to Executive Directors and other provided the participant has remained an performance to that of the companies in an executives who receive a cash bonus under employee of the Group.
The plan is that scheme an award of shares with a appropriate index at the date of an award.
designed to achieve one-for-one matching The Remuneration Committee has decided pre-tax value equal to the pre-tax value of his on an after tax basis.
As the participants that, for awards in 2005 and future years, cash bonus.
A participant who is granted an shares are invested in the plan on an afterthe FTSE 100 Index will be used.
For award must normally continue to hold these tax basis, but the matched shares only previous awards, the FTSE 350 Index was shares and remain an employee of the Group attract income tax and national insurance used because at the time the LTIP was for a period of three years from the date of contributions if and when they are released approved in 1998, the Companys market the award in order to retain the full number from the plan, the number of matched capitalisation placed it around the midof shares so granted to him, although shares shares is increased by reference to tax point of the constituents of that index.
The will be released earlier in certain good rates at the time the matching shares are Company joined the FTSE 100 Index in leaver circumstances.
For awards made in initially awarded to reflect the fact that September 2001.
The extent to which an 2005 and in future years, the release of any they will attract income tax and national award is realisable depends on the deferred share awards will be dependent on insurance contributions if and when they Companys ranking in this comparison.
the Company achieving average real EPS are released.
Entitlement to the matched Awards are released on a sliding scale growth of 3% per annum over the three shares will normally be lost if the between median and top quartile financial years that the shares are held.
The participant leaves employment except in performance with 25 per cent of an award imposition of this target is subject to certain good leaver circumstances.
For being released for median performance and shareholder approval at the Annual General awards made in 2005 and in future years, 100 per cent of the award being released Meeting on 26 April 2005. the release of matched share awards will be for a ranking within the top quartile.
If the For 2004 and previous years, the release of dependent on the Group achieving average Groups performance is below the median, deferred share awards was not dependent on real EPS growth of 3% per annum over the none of the shares in an award will vest.
satisfaction of a further performance three financial years pending their release.
There is no re-testing of targets.
condition because the value of deferred The imposition of this target is subject to There is also an earnings per share threshold, share awards was derived from annual bonus shareholder approval at the Annual General which requires that the Groups earnings per criteria and was therefore dependent on Meeting on 26 April 2005. share growth over the three year period must corporate performance.
exceed the growth in the UK Retail Prices For 2004 and previous years, the release of This deferred share scheme was operated in Index by an average of at least 3% per matched share awards was not dependent respect of 2004 resulting in the share awards annum.
This performance condition is on satisfaction of a further performance described on page 27.
The Remuneration designed to ensure that the vesting level of condition because the value of matched Committee will continue to operate the LTIP awards is dependent on satisfactory share awards was derived from the annual deferred share scheme in respect of 2005 year-on-year financial performance as well as bonus criteria and was therefore dependent and future years.
20 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 23 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The LTIP was operated in 2004, resulting in made under the SIP together with any For death before retirement whilst in service, the share awards set out in the table on page amount payable under the short term a capital sum equal to four times the annual 28.
The Remuneration Committee will cash bonus scheme may not exceed the rate of basic earnings, excluding Directors continue to operate it for Executive Directors overall bonus cap from time to time.
fees, is payable, plus a return of members in 2005 and future years.
In addition, a pension of 50% The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that scheme, in substantially the same terms as of the members prospective pension at the these schemes constitute a well considered the LTIP, has been adopted by the age of 60, based on pensionable earnings at overall plan for Executive Directors and Remuneration Committee and is extended to death, is payable to a surviving spouse senior executives long-term remuneration.
This is also now subject to the providing the couple were married before These schemes are kept under regular review, FTSE 100 performance target.
On death before retirement after to take account of changing circumstances.
Directors are not eligible to participate in this leaving the scheme, a benefit of 50% of the Bonus and share incentive scheme payments scheme, and awards under it will be satisfied members deferred pension, re-valued to the are not taken into account for pension with existing shares only.
date of death, is payable to a surviving spouse.
It should be noted that the For death in retirement, a spouses pension ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Executive Directors elected not to participate of 50% of the members pre-commutation Executive Directors are eligible to in the last two grants made under the pension is payable.
In certain circumstances a participate in the Companys all-employee Employee Share Option Scheme, namely childrens allowance is payable, usually up to share schemes on the same terms as other those made in 2002 and 2005. employees.
These schemes comprise: the age of 18 or up to the age of 21 if they PENSION BENEFITS are in full-time education.
i the Sharesave Scheme, a savings-related The following section describes the pension share option scheme available to all Subject to the Trustees approval, early arrangements currently in force employees.
This scheme operates retirement may be granted from the age of for the Executive Directors.
These within specific tax legislation including 50, or at any age due to ill-health.
The arrangements will be affected by changes to a requirement to finance exercise of the pension is calculated at the date of the tax treatment of the current UK option using the proceeds of a monthly retirement based on accrued pensionable pension regime contained in the Finance savings contract, and exercise of the service and final pensionable earnings at that Act 2004.
The Remuneration Committee is option is not subject to satisfaction of a date.
The pension will then be actuarially currently reviewing appropriate actions to performance target: reduced to take account of early payment by take in response to these changes and will an amount of 0.25% for each complete report on the outcome next year.
ii the Employee Share Option Scheme, an month before normal retirement date.
The Inland Revenue approved share option It is the intention of the Committee that Company and the Trustees have agreed that scheme under which options have been changes in pensions legislation expected to if Mr A J Applegarth or Mr D F Baker having granted to substantially all employees.
commence in 2006 will not increase the attained age 55 retire with the consent of Under this scheme the aggregate Directors actuarial pension cost.
the Company they will receive immediate exercise value of unexercised options Each of the Executive Directors currently payment of their accrued pension without may not exceed 30,000.
Options participates in the Northern Rock Pension the application of an actuarial reduction.
under this scheme may not be exercised Scheme, a contributory pension scheme If Mr Applegarth or Mr Baker elect to retire unless real earnings per share of the which provides a pension of up to twoCompany has grown by more than 2% after attaining the age of 55 without the thirds of pensionable salary on retirement, consent of the Company they will receive an over the life of the option.
On death in performance condition is designed to immediate pension being the accrued service the scheme also provides for a ensure that the exercisability of options deferred pension reduced by 3% for each dependents pension and a lump sum of is dependent on satisfactory year-onyear or proportionate part thereof by which year financial performance on a four times basic salary.
This pension and retirement precedes age 60. life assurance is provided from the scheme sustained basis: and Post retirement increases to pensions arising to the extent permitted by legislation and iii the Share Incentive Plan SIP, under from membership of the defined benefit otherwise from separate arrangements.
which the maximum value of free shares scheme are guaranteed each year at the rate awarded to employees cannot exceed The normal retirement age under the of 3% per annum compound, subject to any pension scheme is 60 which enables 3,000.
The value of share awards guaranteed minimum pension.
Pension under this scheme is dependent on the members to achieve the maximum pension benefits accrued after 5 April 1997 are of 2 3rds of their salary at normal Groups profits.
The SIP operates within guaranteed to increase in line with inflation, specific tax legislation.
Any payment retirement age after 40 years service.
21 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 24 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued In addition to the normal scheme increases, proportionate for each part thereof Company prior to their appointment as and subject to the defined benefit scheme by which retirement precedes age 60.
Directors, entitlement to participate in a fund having adequate resources, the The aggregate of pension increases to concessionary mortgage scheme at the Trustees may award further discretionary be provided whether in deferment or in discretion of the Board.
No further new increases each April.
payment shall be the greater of 5% per loans may be made under the scheme annum or RPI, subject to any guaranteed following conversion to plc status, but Members of the scheme have the option minimum pension and the increases as existing loans are not affected.
to pay additional voluntary contributions granted by the Trustees of the scheme to secure additional benefits within POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS inclusive of any discretionary increases.
regulatory limits, to which the Company SERVICE CONTRACTS does not contribute.
Should Mr Bennett die in service or in It is the policy of the Company that receipt of benefits under the Companys The Company also operates an unapproved Executive Directors service contracts can be Permanent Health Insurance Scheme prior unfunded arrangement for Mr Bennett which terminated by 12 months notice given to an to age 60, a lump sum shall be paid of four is provided for in the Companys accounts Executive Director at any time.
Each times his earnings at death plus a return of and maintains pension entitlement from Executive Director can terminate his his contributions.
In addition, if he leaves a previous employment to provide additional employment by giving 6 months notice.
surviving spouse she shall receive a pension benefits to the main scheme.
The unfunded All of the Executive Directors contracts may of four ninths of his uncapped final arrangement is designed to ensure that the be terminated immediately by Northern Rock pensionable earnings.
Any child or children individual or his spouse will receive the level either with for Mr D F Baker and under the age of 25 receiving full-time of pension benefit in respect of his eligible Mr R F Bennett the payment of liquidated education would receive an allowance of earnings in excess of the pensions earnings damages equal to 12 months salary and the one half of the entitlement of the surviving cap, currently 102,000 2003 04 - value of annual bonus and benefits or for spouse.
Should Mr Bennett die whilst in 99,000 per annum, which are not Mr A J Applegarth, Mr A M Kuipers and receipt of a pension prior to age 60, a lump pensioned by the Northern Rock Pension Mr K M Currie a payment in lieu of notice sum of four times his earnings at retirement Scheme.
Mr Bennett contributes 5% of his equal to such amount.
Mr Applegarth, shall be payable.
On death in receipt of a basic salary including those earnings in excess Mr Baker and Mr Bennett would, in the event pension, any surviving spouse would receive of the earnings cap.
Mr Bennetts pension will of a change of control of Northern Rock, be a pension of two thirds of the pension Mr accrue at the rate of 1 36th of pensionable entitled to terminate employment and Bennett would have been receiving at earnings for each year and pro rata for each receive a liquidated damages payment death, ignoring any pension commuted for part year of pensionable service from 1 calculated on the same basis.
The terms of a tax free cash sum.
November 1993 date joined pension reference of the Remuneration Committee Any income tax or other related tax due on scheme.
In addition, all pension calculations make it clear that the Remuneration the Companys contribution to the shall include pensionable service brought Committee seeks, in appropriate circumstances unfunded arrangement which, under an forward from previous employers of 19 years to mitigate the amount of termination uncapped arrangement, would not have 5 months at a rate of accrual of 1 60th per payments made to Executive Directors.
been paid by Mr Bennett, will be borne by annum and 5 years 1 month at a rate of the Company up to two thirds of the accrual of 1 36th per annum.
POLICY ON EXTERNAL NON-EXECUTIVE contribution amount.
In addition, any DIRECTORSHIPS HELD BY EXECUTIVE The total of the pension provided for income tax or related tax due on the cash DIRECTORS Mr Bennett at normal retirement date or at sum commutation will be borne by the Executive Directors are permitted to hold one any age after his 55th birthday, where the Company up to two thirds of the external non-executive directorship unrelated retirement is by mutual consent or at the commutation amount.
to the Companys business, provided that the Companys request, shall be the maximum of time commitment is not material.
Executive two thirds of his uncapped final pensionable BENEFITS IN KIND Directors are permitted to retain any fees earnings.
If retirement occurs prior to age 60 Each Executive Director is provided with arising from such a non-executive without the consent of the Company, he may company car and medical insurance directorship.
On this basis, Mr R F Bennett is elect to receive an immediate pension being benefits.
The Executive Directors had as a Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc, and the accrued deferred pension with a maximum employees of Northern Rock Building Mr Bennett was entitled to fees of 28,000 of two thirds of his uncapped final pensionable Society or in the case of Mr K M Currie earnings reduced by 3% for each year and from that company in respect of 2004. and Mr A M Kuipers as employees of the 22 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 25 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued PERFORMANCE GRAPHS SERVICE CONTRACTS The performance graphs set out below illustrate the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR Mr A J Applegarth is employed under a performance over the preceding five years, 2000 to 2004, compared with that of the FTSE service contract with the Company dated 1 100 Index of which Northern Rock has been a constituent since September 2001, and that March 2001.
Mr Applegarths current of the FTSE 350 Index of which Northern Rock was a constituent prior to September 2001. annual salary is 625,000, and he is entitled The FTSE 350 Index has been included because members of this index comprise the under the contract to participation in the comparator group for long term incentive plan purposes for 2004 and prior.
The performance Companys bonus scheme, a company car graphs have been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
or allowance in lieu, membership of the Companys pension scheme, life assurance cover equal to four times salary, permanent FTSE 100 health insurance, private medical insurance TSR % 60 cover and the continuation of a mortgage at a concessionary rate which was granted 50 before the Companys conversion to plc 40 status.
Mr Applegarths contract is for an indefinite term ending automatically on his 30 retirement date age 60, but may be terminated by 12 months notice given by 20 the Company and 6 months notice given by 10 Mr Applegarth.
The Company may at its discretion elect to terminate the contract by 0 making a payment in lieu of notice equal to: -10 i 100 per cent of basic annual salary: -20 ii the amount of annual bonus paid in respect of the preceding financial -30 year: and 2000 % 2001 % 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % iii the annual cost to the Company of Northern Rock 14 51 8 12 13 FTSE 100 -8 -14 -22 18 11 providing pension and all other benefits to which Mr Applegarth is entitled under his contract.
FTSE 350 In addition, Mr Applegarth may elect to TSR % 60 terminate the contract on one months notice given within six months following a 50 change of control of the Company.
In 40 these circumstances, Mr Applegarth would become entitled to a lump sum payment 30 equal to the aggregate of: 20 i 100 per cent of basic annual salary: 10 ii the amount of annual bonus paid in respect of the preceding financial 0 year: and -10 iii the annual cost to the Company of providing pension and all other benefits -20 specified in his service contract.
-30 Mr R F Bennett is employed under a service 2000 % 2001 % 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % contract with the Company dated 26 Northern Rock 14 51 8 12 13 August 1997, which was amended by a FTSE 350 -6 -13 -23 20 13 23 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 26 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued supplemental agreement dated 12 March the Company, dated 5 January 2005.
Their where a Non-Executive Director is chairman 1998.
Mr Bennetts current annual salary is of a Board Committee, the additional current annual salaries are 270,000, and 390,000.
He is entitled to the same they are entitled under the terms of their annual fee payable to them is 12,500. benefits as those specified above in relation contracts to participate in the Companys Subject to shareholder approval at the to Mr Applegarth, save that Mr Bennett bonus scheme, to receive a company car Annual General Meeting of an increase in is entitled to special pension arrangements and expenses or a monthly car allowance, the aggregate cap on fees payable to Nonwhich are described on page 22. membership of the Companys pension Executive Directors, with effect from 26 Mr Bennetts contract is for an indefinite scheme, life assurance cover equal to four April 2005: term ending automatically on his retirement times basic salary and the continuation of a a the Chairmans annual fee will be date age 60, but may be terminated by 12 concessionary mortgage which was increased to 250,000: months notice given by the Company and 6 granted to them before they became months notice given by Mr Bennett.
The b the Senior Independent Non-Executive directors of the Company.
Their contracts Company may at its discretion elect to Directors annual fee will be increased are for an indefinite term ending terminate the contract early by making a to 55,000: automatically on their retirement age 60. payment of liquidated damages calculated in The contracts may however be terminated c the Non-Executive Directors annual fee the manner set out above in relation to Mr by 12 months notice given by the will be increased to 40,000: Applegarths post-change of control Company and six months notice given by d the annual fee payable for membership liquidated damages entitlement.
of each of the Audit, Nomination, Risk In the event of a change of control of the The Company may at its discretion elect and Remuneration Committees will be Company, Mr Bennett may elect to to terminate Mr Curries and Mr Kuipers increased to 3,500: and terminate the contract and receive a lump contracts by making a payment in lieu of e where a Non-Executive Director is sum payment calculated in the manner set notice equal to: chairman of a Board Committee, the out above in relation to Mr Applegarth.
i 100 per cent of basic salary: additional annual fee payable will be Mr D F Baker is employed under a service increased to 13,000. ii the amount of annual bonus paid contract with the Company dated 26 August in respect of the preceding financial These proposed revised fees for the 1997, which was amended by supplemental year: and agreements dated 12 March 1998 and 1July Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were determined after consideration of a 1999.
Mr Bakers current annual salary is iii the annual cost to the Company of report by Watson Wyatt LLP on the fees 390,000.
He is entitled to the same providing pension and all other benefits paid for similar roles at banks in the FTSE benefits as those specified above in relation to which they are entitled under their 100 Index, and for Companies positioned to Mr Applegarth save that Mr Baker has contracts.
repaid the mortgage awarded to him before 51-75 in the FTSE 100 Index.
The payment in lieu of notice payments the Companys conversion to plc status, and The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors may be made in phased instalments at the is not entitled to a further mortgage on serve the Company under letters of Companys discretion.
appointment, which are terminable by the Mr Bakers contract is for an indefinite term Company at any time without liability for REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN ending automatically on his retirement date compensation: they do not have service AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS age 60, but may be terminated by 12 contracts.
The Chairman and Non-Executive The remuneration of the Chairman is months notice given by the Company and Directors are entitled to fees from the Group determined by the Remuneration 6 months notice given by Mr Baker.
and it is the Groups policy that they do not Committee and that of the other NonThe Company may elect to terminate the participate in bonus, incentive or pension Executive Directors is determined by the contract by making a payment of liquidated schemes.
However, Sir George Russell, who Board as a whole, on the basis of external damages calculated in the manner set out also served on the Board of Northern Rock independent advice.
above in relation to Mr Bennett.
In the event Building Society, see page 25 is a deferred of a change of control of the Company, The Chairmans annual fee is 150,000. member of a non-contributory pension Mr Baker may elect to terminate the contract The Senior Independent Non-Executive scheme established by Northern Rock and receive a lump sum payment calculated Directors annual fee is 49,500.
NonBuilding Society under which pension in the manner set out above in relation to Executive Directors receive an annual fee of entitlement accrued for each complete year Mr Applegarth.
The fee payable for membership of qualifying service subject to a maximum of Mr K M Currie and Mr A M Kuipers are of each of the Audit, Nomination, Risk and 60% of qualifying fees.
This scheme ceased each employed under service contracts with Remuneration Committees is 2,500 or, to accrue benefits after 30 June 1997.
24 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 27 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The information set out below in the remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report has been subject to audit as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
DIRECTORS INDIVIDUAL REMUNERATION Details of Directors individual remuneration is set out below: Non-Executive Directors 2004 2003 000 000 Dr M W Ridley Chairman 127 77 N A H Fenwick 36 5 Sir Ian Gibson 38 36 N Pease 43 36 Sir George Russell 53 46 Sir Derek Wanless 51 36 Sir John Riddell, Bt.
retired 27 April 2004 50 150 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
retired 27 April 2004 12 36 410 422 Sir George Russell is a deferred member of the Northern Rock Building Society non-contributory pension scheme, which ceased to accrue benefits after 30 June 1997.
This deferred pension commences on retirement as a Non-Executive Director or 25 October 2005, whichever is earlier and for 2004 was valued at 1 1,470 2003 10,771.
In line with the scheme rules this will increase to 12,229 per annum in October 2005.
Executive Chief Executive Chief Operating Group Finance Directors Officer Director A J Applegarth D F Baker R F Bennett Total 000 000 000 000 2004 Salaries and fees 565 375 375 1,315 Bonus 368 244 244 856 Total remuneration 933 619 619 2,171 Non cash benefits 13 1 1 1 8 42 Total emoluments 946 630 637 2,213 2003 Salaries and fees 525 350 350 1,225 Bonus 394 263 263 920 Total remuneration 919 613 613 2,145 Non cash benefits 13 10 17 40 Total emoluments 932 623 630 2,185 There were no payments by the Company during the financial year for compensation for loss of office or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
There were no amounts paid to the Executive Directors in respect of their qualifying services by way of expenses allowance that was chargeable to UK income tax.
The nature of the non-cash benefits is set out on page 22.
25 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 28 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued BONUS MATCHING PLAN Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the bonus matching plan by year of grant are as follows: Rights under bonus matching plan Date Rights held Rights granted Market price of Rights released Rights held Date of granted under plan during 2004 each share during 2004 under plan end of at 31 Dec 03 on date of grant at 31 Dec 04 qualifying period A J Applegarth Feb 01 18,663 - 4.65 18,663 - - Jan 02 23,723 - 6.66 - 23,723 Jan 05 Jan 03 52,253 - 6.10 - 52,253 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 53,208 7.40 - 53,208 Jan 07 D F Baker Feb 01 19,658 - 4.65 19,658 - - Jan 02 21,621 - 6.66 - 21,621 Jan 05 Jan 03 38,728 - 6.10 - 38,728 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 35,472 7.40 - 35,472 Jan 07 R F Bennett Feb 01 22,273 - 4.65 22,273 - - Jan 02 21,621 - 6.66 - 21,621 Jan 05 Jan 03 38,728 - 6.10 - 38,728 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 35,472 7.40 - 35,472 Jan 07 L P Finn Feb 01 35,433 - 4.65 35,433 - - former Director The value of these awards is being charged to the profit and loss account over the three year period to which they relate.
Further awards were granted on 28 January 2005 at 7.73 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 47,618 D F Baker 31,605 R F Bennett 31,605 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 18,120 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 18,120 Rights vested under bonus matching plan during 2004 Number of Date on Market price Vesting date Market price ordinary shares which rights of each share at of each share awarded award date at vesting date A J Applegarth 18,663 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 D F Baker 19,658 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 R F Bennett 22,273 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 L P Finn former Director 35,433 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 Rights were released in January 2005 at 7.73 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 23,723 D F Baker 21,621 R F Bennett 21,621 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 9,383 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 9,383 There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the Scheme interests during 2004.
The value of the bonus matching award is derived from the annual bonus criteria relating to the year on year increases in the Groups pre-tax profits on like-for-like ordinary activities and is therefore dependent on corporate performance.
The release of bonus matching share awards at the end of the three year restricted period is not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years, subject to shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, the value of any bonus matching share awards will be dependent on the Group achieving real EPS growth of 3% per annum over the three years prior to their release.
26 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 29 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DEFERRED SHARE SCHEME Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the deferred share scheme by year of grant are as follows: Date of Rights held Rights granted Market price of Rights released Rights held Date of grant under the plan during 2004 each share during 2004 under the plan end of at 31 Dec 03 on date of grant at 31 Dec 04 qualifying period A J Applegarth Feb 01 19,658 - 4.65 19,658 - - Jan 02 27,778 - 6.66 - 27,778 Jan 05 Jan 03 52,254 - 6.10 - 52,254 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 53,208 7.40 - 53,208 Jan 07 D F Baker Feb 01 19,658 - 4.65 19,658 - - Jan 02 21,622 - 6.66 - 21,622 Jan 05 Jan 03 38,730 - 6.10 - 38,730 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 35,472 7.40 - 35,472 Jan 07 R F Bennett Feb 01 22,273 - 4.65 22,273 - - Jan 02 21,622 - 6.66 - 21,622 Jan 05 Jan 03 38,730 - 6.10 - 38,730 Jan 06 Jan 04 - 35,472 7.40 - 35,472 Jan 07 The value of these awards is being charged to the profit and loss account over the three year period to which they relate.
Further awards were granted on 28 January 2005 at 7.73 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 47,618 D F Baker 31,605 R F Bennett 31,605 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 18,120 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 18,120 Rights vested under deferred share scheme during 2004 Number of Date on Market price Vesting date Market price ordinary shares which rights of each share at of each share awarded award date at vesting date A J Applegarth 19,658 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 D F Baker 19,658 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 R F Bennett 22,273 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 There were no variations in the terms and conditions of the scheme interests during 2004.
Rights were released in January 2005 at 7.73 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 27,778 D F Baker 21,622 R F Bennett 21,622 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 9,384 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 9,384 The value of any deferred share award is derived from annual bonus criteria relating to year on year increases in the Groups pre-tax profits on like-for-like ordinary activities and is therefore dependent on corporate performance.
The release of deferred share awards at the end of the three year restricted period is not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years, subject to shareholder approval at the 2005 AGM, the value of any deferred share awards will be dependent on the Group achieving average real EPS growth of 3% per annum over the three years prior to their release.
27 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 30 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the long term incentive plan by year of grant are as follows: Rights under long term incentive plan Date Rights Rights Market Rights Rights Date of granted held under granted price of each released held under end of plan at during share on during plan at performance 31 Dec 03 2004 date of grant 2004 31 Dec 04 period A J Applegarth Feb 01 44,516, 37 - 4.65 44,516, 37-- Jan 02 63,814, 37 - 6.66 - 63,814 Jan 05 Jan 03 86,066, 3 7- 6.10 - 86,066 Jan 06 Jan 04, 37- 76,351 7.40 - 76,351 Jan 07 D F Baker Feb 01 44,516, 37-4.65, 3 44,516 7-- Jan 02 47,297, 37- 6.66 - 47,297 Jan 05 Jan 03 57,377, 37- 6.10 - 57,377 Jan 06 Jan 04, 37- 50,676 7.40 - 50,676 Jan 07 R F Bennett Feb 01 50,436, 37- 4.65 50,436 7-- Jan 02 47,297, 37- 6.66 - 47,297 Jan 05 Jan 03 57,377, 37- 6.10 - 57,377 Jan 06 Jan 04, 37- 50,676 7.40 - 50,676 Jan 07 L P Finn Feb 01 26,746, 37- 4.65 26,746 7-- former Director, 37, 025 Rights vested during 2004 Number of Date on Market price Vesting date Market price ordinary shares which rights of each share at of each share awarded award date at vesting date A J Applegarth 44,516 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 D F Baker 44,516 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 R F Bennett 50,436 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 L P Finn former Director 26,746 Feb 01 4.65 Feb 04 7.40 The value of conditional awards is charged to the profit and loss account over the three year performance period to which they relate after taking account of the probability of performance criteria being met.
In 2004 879,251 was charged to the profit and loss account 2003 874,716.
The gross awards granted in 2002 shown above, matured in January 2005 and led to the release at 7.73 per share of 72.7% of shares originally awarded.
Subject to the performance criteria being met, other awards may be exercised during the three month period commencing on the third anniversary of the award dates.
The awards will lapse if they are not exercised during these times.
Further awards were granted on 28 January 2005 at 7.73 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 80,854 D F Baker 50,453 R F Bennett 50,453 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 34,929 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 34,929 There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the plan interests during 2004.
The number of shares comprised in an award is calculated by reference to a percentage of salary, up to a maximum of 100% of salary.
Shares may only be released if demanding performance targets are achieved and if the participant remains in employment, except in certain good leaver circumstances.
In relation to awards granted in 2004 and previous years, performance is measured over a three year period on the basis of Total Shareholder Return, comparing the Companys performance to that of the other companies in the FTSE 350 Index at the date of the award.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years, the Companys Total Shareholder Return will be compared to that of other companies in the FTSE 100 Index at the date of the award.
See page 20 for further details.
28 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 31 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued PENSIONS Set out below are details of the pension benefits to which each of the Executive Directors is entitled.
Age at Years & Accrued pension Accrued pensiom Additional Additional 31 Dec 04 months of entitlement entitlement pension entitlement pension entitlement service at at 31 Dec 04 at 31 Dec 03 earned in year earned in year in 31 Dec 04 Per Annum Per Annum excess of inflation A J Applegarth 42 21 years 2 months 199,319 176,458 22,861 17,920 D F Baker 51 27 years 7 months 195,833 176,458 19,375 14,434 R F Bennett 57 11 years 2 months 250,000 233,333 16,667 10,133 Transfer value Transfer value Increase in transfer Transfer value of increase of accrued pension of accrued pension value less Directors in accrued pension entitlement entitlement entitlement contributions in excess of inflation at 31 Dec 04 at 31 Dec 03 less Directors contributions A J Applegarth 1,471,285 1,216,374 226,661 103,438 D F Baker 2,368,096 1,979,205 370,141 155,450 R F Bennett 4,415,009 3,789,807 606,452 160,582 The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the Director would receive if he retired at the end of the year.
The increase in the accrued pension entitlement is the difference between the accrued pension entitlement at the year end and that at the previous year end.
The Listing Rules also require this to be disclosed excluding inflation.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued pension entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent the sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value less Directors contributions is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued pension entitlement during the year after deducting the Directors personal contributions to the scheme.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement, required by the Listing Rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement excluding inflation that the Director has earned in the period, whereas the change in his transfer value, required by the Companies Act, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in transfer values and thus includes the change in value of the accrued pension entitlement that results from market volatility affecting the transfer value over the year, as well as the value of the additional accrued pension entitlement earned in the year.
Including Mr R F Bennetts unfunded arrangement he has an estimated accrued annual pension entitlement at 31 December 2004 of 250,000.
This is based on his total pensionable service of 11 years 2 months and his pensionable service of 19 years 5 months at the rate of accrual of 1 60th per annum and 5 years 1 month at the rate of accrual of 1 36th and his pensionable earnings above the earnings cap.
The contributions cost during the year in respect of this unfunded arrangement amounted to 84,862 for the Company and 13,688 for Mr Bennett.
29 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 32 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The following Directors held a beneficial interest in the Companys Ordinary Shares: Contingent interests At At At At At At 22 Feb 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03 22 Feb 05 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 03 or date of or date of appointment appointment Non-Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley 26,200 26,200 26,200 - - - N A H Fenwick 1,500 1,500 - - - - Sir Ian Gibson 5,000 5,000 2,000 - - - N Pease 8,350 8,350 8,350 - - - Sir George Russell 36,755 36,755 36,755 - - - Sir Derek Wanless 20,500 20,500 20,500 - - - Sir John Riddell, Bt.
10,000 - retired 27 April 2004 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
5,620 - retired 27 April 2004 M J Queen appointed - - - - 5 January 2005 Executive Directors A J Applegarth 93,177 79,668 58,941 549,430 488,655 388,725 D F Baker 64,819 59,657 52,458 370,1 1 8 346,995 309,207 R F Bennett 64,813 59,652 63,380 370,118 346,955 320,357 K M Currie appointed 38,852 32,889 217,811 187,031 5 January 2005 A M Kuipers appointed 37,641 31,678 217,811 187,031 5 January 2005 Contingent interests represent Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the bonus matching plan, the deferred share scheme and the long term incentive plan which is subject to stringent performance criteria being met as described above.
Contingent interests on 22 February 2005 includes awards made since 31 December 2004 under the bonus matching plan, the deferred share scheme and the long term incentive plan for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2004.
30 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 33 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS Movements in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company in which the Directors have an interest during the period 1 January 2004 to 31 December 2004 are as follows: Option type At Exercised Exercise At Date from Expiry date 31 Dec 03 in 2004 price 31 Dec 04 which first or date of exercisable appointment A J Applegarth Sharesave 2 7,848, 85- 2.15 7,848 1 May 05 1 Nov 05 Share Option Scheme 4,854 4,854 6.18 - - - D F Baker Sharesave 2 7,848, 85- 2.15 7,848 1 May 05 1 Nov 05 Share Option Scheme 4,854 4,854 6.18 - - - R F Bennett Sharesave 3 1,580 - 5.98 1,580 1 May 06 1 Nov 06 K M Currie Sharesave 2, 85 2.15 7,848 1 May 05 1 Nov 05 appointed Share Option Scheme, 85 6.18 4,854 1 Jun 01 1 Jun 08 5 January 2005 A M Kuipers Sharesave 2, 85 2.15 8,546 1 May 07 1 Nov 07 appointed, 85 5 January 2005 For each unexercised option at the end of the year, the market price of each share at 31 December 2004 was 7.815, the highest market price during the year was 7.94 20 December 2004 and the lowest market price during the year was 6.865 11 August 2004.
On 30 January 2004 A J Applegarth and D F Baker each exercised and sold 4,854 Share Option Scheme shares at a price of 7.40.
The specific individual interests of Executive Directors are shown in the tables above.
In addition the Directors are deemed to have an interest in shares held by Trusts for various executive and other employee share schemes at 31 December 2004 as follows: i Northern Rock Employee Trust holds 5,779,139 shares 31 December 2003 6,433,225 shares : ii Northern Rock Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust holds 2,054,261 shares 31 December 2003 2,056,063 shares : and iii Northern Rock Trustees Limited holds 511,241 shares 31 December 2003 749,729 shares.
No Executive Director option terms were varied during 2004 and no price was paid for any of the options in the table, other than the all employee Sharesave Scheme, where each Director paid 250 per month.
Options listed in the table above are Inland Revenue approved schemes.
The Employee Share Option Scheme was subject to an EPS target which was met in 2004.
Options under the Sharesave Scheme do not have any performance conditions.
Nichola Pease Chairman, Remuneration Committee 22 February 2005 31 16362 N Rock ARA WEB 02 03 05 04:26 pm Page 34 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT REPORTING Existing training on awareness and affordability were introduced and are The Companys website contains detailed prevention of money laundering was followed by our sales force and information on corporate, social and supplemented by refresher training for intermediaries.
environmental activities and is our main senior management.
A programme of work continued to ensure reporting medium.
Updated quarterly, the The Company reviewed its obligations that we comply with all relevant aspects of website contains reports from current and under public interest disclosure, the Disability Discrimination Act.
A hard copy summary of strengthening the policy to protect staff in Surveys of customers who transferred to significant events and achievements during the event of whistle blowing.
Northern Rock on our acquisition of 2004 has been produced and is available Legal & General Bank in 2002, continued on request from the Company Secretary.
WORKPLACE in 2004, with positive results recorded.
Northern Rocks approach to managing We continued to demonstrate pro-active Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and sustained commitment to equality in More detailed information on our issues and some notable aspects of 2004 employment, working with various Marketplace activities is set out in the performance are outlined here.
organisations to provide opportunities for Operating and Financial Review.
individuals from diverse groups and ensure MANAGEMENT OF CSR COMMUNITY our workforce is representative of the The Chief Operating Officer provides Board The annual donation of 5% of pre-tax community.
Specific initiatives included level representation and leadership of CSR.
profits to The Northern Rock Foundation is increasing the numbers of disabled staff, the biggest single contribution we make to Development and implementation of our assisting the long-term unemployed to find the communities in which we operate.
CSR Policy is now carried out by six work, support for refugee programmes, In 2004, this amounted to 21.6 million.
working groups made up of senior staff ensuring best practice in diversity and racial from across the Company.
A launch event equality and support for the Age Positive Northern Rock staff contribute to many was held on formation of the groups, led by Campaign.
charitable causes and community activities, the Chief Operating Officer, setting out the notably the corporate charity which is Worklife Balance activities were geared corporate approach and aims for CSR.
chosen by staff on an annual basis.
In towards improved flexibility and the move 2004, the Children's Wish Foundation was A CSR Department co-ordinates and away from core hours.
Lifestyle working selected and staff raised over 100,000, monitors operational activities and extends to all graded staff, including matched by The Northern Rock Foundation.
Training and education remain key features ENVIRONMENT ENGAGEMENT of staff development and in 2004 we Positive recognition for our well-developed We continued our engagement with carried out the largest training exercise we environmental management systems included stakeholders and research organisations have ever undertaken, delivering a retention of our Premier League status in the although this is an area where we need to Customer Service training programme to all Business in The Environment Index.
be selective to ensure effective use of staff, led by the Chief Executive and Chief resources.
Our largest sites operated on renewable Operating Officer.
energy until contracts ended in October.
Contractor evaluation systems were We supported the Government sponsored When renewing our energy contracts, we developed further to ensure that our working National Learning Day by holding our own were unable to obtain renewable energy but partners operate to acceptable standards.
Learning Week, with activities available to secured energy exempt from climate change all staff.
Personal development was further GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY levy for the whole portfolio.
encouraged through wider availability of Northern Rocks approach to compliance with A review of secure paper recycling methods e-learning materials.
the Combined Code was delivered in a yielded significant cost savings whilst presentation to shareholders by the Chairman In Health and Safety, we implemented a new maintaining data protection compliance.
which was broadcast on our website.
management system, focusing on key risk A transport survey of all staff working at areas.
Progress was tested by participation CSR risks were reviewed as part of the our Gosforth Head Office showed that use in the Corporate Health and Safety formal corporate risk management process of alternative forms of transport had Performance Index CHASPI pilot exercise, and are included in our operational risk increased in recent years, whilst driver-only where we recorded sector-leading results.
Further BUSINESS ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS development and promotion of travel plans MARKETPLACE Our Code of Conduct was reviewed and the for Head Office were carried out using Affordability of loans for customers is a key revised version published on the feedback from the survey.
procedures for the certification of 32
